See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. 
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.  
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. 
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. 
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. 
Impacts of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 
License support revenues are typically generated through the sale of license support contracts related to cloud license and on-premise licenses purchased by our customers at their option. License support contracts provide customers with rights to unspecified software product upgrades, maintenance releases and patches released during the term of the support period and include internet access to technical content, as well as internet and telephone access to technical support personnel. License support contracts are generally priced as a percentage of the net cloud license and on-premise license fees. Substantially all of our customers renew their license support contracts annually. 
Cloud services revenues include revenues from Oracle Cloud Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) and Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS) offerings (collectively, Oracle Cloud Services), which deliver applications and infrastructure technologies, respectively, via cloud-based deployment models that we develop functionality for, provide unspecified updates and enhancements for, host, manage and support and that customers access by entering into a subscription agreement with us for a stated period. Our IaaS offerings also include Oracle Managed Cloud Services, which are designed to provide comprehensive software and hardware management, maintenance and security services for customer cloud-based, on-premise or other IT infrastructure for a fee for a stated term.  
Cloud license and on-premise license revenues primarily represent amounts earned from granting customers licenses to use our database, middleware, application and industry-specific software products which our customers use for cloud-based, on-premise and other IT environments. The vast majority of our cloud license and on-premise license arrangements include license support contracts, which are entered into at the customer’s option.  
Revenues from the sale of hardware products represent amounts earned primarily from the sale of our Oracle Engineered Systems, computer servers, storage, and industry-specific hardware. Our hardware support offerings generally provide customers with software updates for the software components that are essential to the functionality of the hardware products purchased and can also include product repairs, maintenance services and technical support services. Hardware support contracts are generally priced as a percentage of the net hardware products fees. 
Our consulting services are offered as standalone arrangements or as a part of arrangements to customers buying other products and services. Our advanced customer support services are offered as standalone arrangements or as a part of arrangements to customers buying other products and services. We offer these advanced customer support services to Oracle customers to enable increased performance and higher availability of their products and services. Education services include instructor-led, media-based and internet-based training in the use of our cloud, software and hardware products.  
recognition of revenues when, or as, the contractual performance obligations are satisfied. 
The timing of revenue recognition may differ from the timing of invoicing to our customers. We record an unbilled receivable, which is included within accounts receivable on our condensed consolidated balance sheets, when revenue is recognized prior to invoicing. We record deferred revenues on our condensed consolidated balance sheets when revenues are recognized subsequent to cash collection for an invoice. Our standard payment terms are generally net 30 days but may vary. Invoices for cloud license and on-premise licenses and hardware products are generally issued when the license is made available for customer use or upon delivery to the customer of the hardware product. Invoices for license support and hardware support contracts are generally invoiced annually in advance. Cloud SaaS and IaaS contracts are generally invoiced annually, quarterly or monthly in advance. Services are generally invoiced in advance or as the services are performed. Most contracts that contain a financing component are contracts financed through our financing division. The transaction price for a contract that is financed through our financing division is adjusted to reflect the time value of money and interest revenue is recorded as a component of non-operating income, net within our condensed consolidated statements of operations based on market rates in the country in which the transaction is being financed.  
Our revenue arrangements generally include standard warranty or service level provisions that our arrangements will perform and operate in all material respects as defined in the respective agreements, the financial impacts of which have historically been and are expected to continue to be insignificant. Our arrangements generally do not  
include a general right of return relative to the delivered products or services. We recognize revenues net of any taxes collected from customers, which are subsequently remitted to governmental authorities. 
Revenues from cloud services provided on a subscription basis are generally recognized ratably over the contractual period that the services are delivered, beginning on the date our service is made available to our customers. We recognize revenue ratably because the customer receives and consumes the benefits of the cloud services throughout the contract period. Revenues from cloud services provided on a consumption basis, such as metered services, are generally recognized based on the utilization of the services by the customer.  
Oracle’s primary performance obligations with respect to license support contracts and hardware support contracts are to provide customers with technical support as needed and unspecified software product upgrades, maintenance releases and patches during the term of the support period when they are available. Oracle is obligated to make the license and hardware support services available continuously throughout the contract period. Therefore, revenues for license support contracts and hardware support contracts are generally recognized ratably over the contractual periods that the support services are provided.  
Revenues from distinct cloud license and on-premise license performance obligations are generally recognized upfront at the point in time when the software is made available to the customer to download and use. Revenues from usage-based royalty arrangements for distinct cloud licenses and on-premise licenses are recognized at the point in time when the software end user usage occurs. For usage-based royalty arrangements with a fixed minimum guarantee amount, the minimum amount is generally recognized upfront when the software is made available to the royalty customer. 
The hardware product and related software, such as an operating system or firmware, are highly interdependent and interrelated and are accounted for as a combined performance obligation. The revenues for this combined performance obligation are generally recognized at the point in time that the hardware product is delivered to the customer and ownership is transferred to the customer. 
Many of our contracts include multiple performance obligations. Judgment is required in determining whether each performance obligation is distinct. Oracle products and services generally do not require a significant amount of integration or interdependency. We allocate the transaction price for each contract to each performance obligation based on the relative standalone selling price (SSP) for each performance obligation within each contract.  
We use judgment in determining the SSP for products and services. For substantially all performance obligations except cloud licenses and on-premise licenses, we are able to establish SSP based on the observable prices of products or services sold separately in comparable circumstances to similar customers. We typically establish a standalone selling price range for our products and services which is reassessed on a periodic basis or when facts and circumstances change. Our cloud licenses and on-premise licenses have not historically been sold on a standalone basis, as substantially all customers elect to purchase license support contracts at the time of a cloud license and on-premise license purchase. License support contracts are generally priced as a percentage of the net fees paid by the customer to access the license. We are unable to establish SSP for our cloud licenses and on-premise licenses based on observable prices given the same products are sold for a broad range of amounts (that is, the selling price is highly variable) and a representative SSP is not discernible from past transactions or other observable evidence. As a result, the SSP for a cloud license and an on-premise license included in a contract with multiple performance obligations is determined by applying a residual approach whereby all other performance obligations within a contract are first allocated a portion of the transaction price based upon their respective SSPs, with any residual amount of transaction price allocated to cloud license and on-premise license revenues.  
We defer sales commissions earned by our sales force that are considered to be incremental and recoverable costs of obtaining a cloud, license support and hardware support contract. Initial sales commissions for the majority of these aforementioned contracts are generally deferred and amortized on a straight-line basis over a period of benefit that we estimate to be four to five years. We determine the period of benefit by taking into consideration the historical and expected durations of our customer contracts, the expected useful lives of our technologies, and other factors. Sales commissions for renewal contracts relating to our cloud-based arrangements are generally deferred and then amortized on a straight-line basis over the related contractual renewal period, which is generally one to three years. Amortization of deferred sales commissions is included as a component of sales and marketing expenses in our condensed consolidated statements of operations.  
Trade receivables, net of allowance for doubtful accounts, and deferred revenues are reported net of related uncollected deferred revenues in our condensed consolidated balance sheets as of February 28, 2019 and May 31, 2018.  
The amount of revenues recognized during the nine months ended February 28, 2019 that were included in the opening deferred revenues balance as of May 31, 2018 was approximately $7.7 billion. Revenues recognized from performance obligations satisfied in prior periods were immaterial during each of the three and nine months ended February 28, 2019 and 2018. Impairment losses recognized on our receivables were immaterial in each of the three and nine months ended February 28, 2019 and 2018.  
Refer to Note 10 for our discussion of revenues disaggregation. 
Restricted cash that was included within cash and cash equivalents as presented within our condensed consolidated balance sheets as of February 28, 2019 and May 31, 2018 and our condensed consolidated statements of cash flows for the nine months ended February 28, 2019 and 2018 was nominal. 
Acquisition related and other expenses consist of personnel related costs and stock-based compensation for transitional and certain other employees, integration related professional services, certain business combination adjustments including certain adjustments after the measurement period has ended and certain other operating items, net. 
Non-operating income, net consists primarily of interest income, net foreign currency exchange losses, the noncontrolling interests in the net profits of our majority-owned subsidiaries (primarily Oracle Financial Services Software Limited and Oracle Corporation Japan) and net other income, including net realized gains and losses related to all of our investments, net unrealized gains and losses related to the small portion of our investment portfolio related to our deferred compensation plan, and non-service net periodic pension income (losses). 
We offer certain of our customers the option to acquire our software products, hardware products and services offerings through separate long-term payment contracts. We generally sell these contracts that we have financed for our customers on a non-recourse basis to financial institutions within 90 days of the contracts’ dates of execution. We record the transfers of amounts due from customers to financial institutions as sales of financing receivables because we are considered to have surrendered control of these financing receivables. Financing receivables sold to financial institutions were $274 million and $1.3 billion for the three and nine months ended February 28, 2019, respectively, and $360 million and $1.3 billion for the three and nine months ended February 28, 2018, respectively. 
On March 28, 2018, we completed our acquisition of Aconex Limited (Aconex), a provider of cloud-based collaboration software for construction projects.  
We have included the financial results of Aconex in our condensed consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition. These results were not individually material to our condensed consolidated financial statements. The total preliminary purchase price for Aconex was approximately $1.2 billion, which consisted of approximately $1.2 billion in cash and $7 million for the fair values of stock options and restricted stock-based awards assumed. In connection with the Aconex acquisition, we have preliminarily recorded $20 million of net liabilities and $377 million of identifiable intangible assets based on their estimated fair values, and $864 million of residual goodwill. Goodwill generated from our acquisition of Aconex was primarily attributable to synergies expected to arise after the acquisition and is not expected to be tax deductible. 
During the first nine months of fiscal 2019 and the full fiscal year of 2018, we acquired certain other companies and purchased certain technology and development assets primarily to expand our products and services offerings. These acquisitions were not significant individually or in the aggregate. 
The preliminary fair values of net tangible assets and intangible assets acquired were based on preliminary valuations, and our estimates and assumptions are subject to change within the measurement period (up to one year from the acquisition date). The primary areas that remain preliminary relate to the fair values of intangible assets acquired, certain tangible assets and liabilities acquired, certain legal matters, income and non-income based taxes and residual goodwill. We expect to continue to obtain information to assist us in determining the fair values of the net assets acquired during the measurement period. 
The unaudited pro forma financial information for the three and nine months ended February 28, 2019 presented the historical results of Oracle for the three and nine months ended February 28, 2019, and certain other companies that we acquired since the beginning of fiscal 2019 based upon their respective previous reporting periods and the dates these companies were acquired by us, and the effects of the pro forma adjustments listed above. 
We perform fair value measurements in accordance with FASB Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 820, Fair Value Measurement. ASC 820 defines fair value as the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities required to be recorded at their fair values, we consider the principal or most advantageous market in which we would transact and consider assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the assets or liabilities, such as inherent risk, transfer restrictions and risk of nonperformance. 
Amounts also include any changes in intangible asset balances for the periods presented that resulted from foreign currency translations. 
Pursuant to our business combinations accounting policy, we recorded goodwill adjustments for the effects on goodwill of changes to net assets acquired during the period that such a change is identified, provided that any such change is within the measurement period (up to one year from the date of the acquisition). Amounts also include any changes in goodwill balances for the period presented that resulted from foreign currency translations.  
Restructuring costs recorded for individual line items primarily related to employee severance costs. 
The balances at February 28, 2019 and May 31, 2018 included $183 million and $257 million, respectively, recorded in other current liabilities, and $24 million and $25 million, respectively, recorded in other non-current liabilities. 
All plan adjustments were changes in estimates whereby increases and decreases in costs were generally recorded to operating expenses in the period of adjustments. 
Represents foreign currency translation and certain other adjustments. 
Deferred cloud services and license support revenues and deferred hardware revenues substantially represent customer payments made in advance for cloud or support contracts that are typically billed in advance with corresponding revenues generally being recognized ratably over the contractual periods. Deferred services revenues include prepayments for our services business and revenues for these services are generally recognized as the services are performed. Deferred cloud license and on-premise license revenues typically resulted from customer payments that related to undelivered products and services or specified enhancements.  
In connection with our acquisitions, we have estimated the fair values of the cloud services and license support performance obligations assumed from our acquired companies. We generally have estimated the fair values of these obligations assumed using a cost build-up approach. The cost build-up approach determines fair value by estimating the costs related to fulfilling the obligations plus a normal profit margin. The sum of the costs and operating profit approximates, in theory, the amount that we would be required to pay a third party to assume these acquired obligations. These aforementioned fair value adjustments recorded for obligations assumed from our acquisitions reduced the cloud services and license support deferred revenues balances that we recorded as liabilities from these acquisitions and also reduced the resulting revenues that we recognized or will recognize over the terms of the acquired obligations during the post-combination periods. 
interest rate swap agreements, which are used to protect us against changes in the fair values of certain of our fixed-rate borrowings attributable to the movements in benchmark interest rates. We have designated these swap agreements as qualifying hedging instruments and are accounting for them as fair value hedges pursuant to ASC 815; 
cross-currency interest rate swap agreements, which are used to protect us against changes in the fair values of certain of our fixed-rate Euro-denominated borrowings attributable to the movements in benchmark interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates by effectively converting the fixed-rate, Euro-denominated borrowings, including the annual interest payments and the payment of principal at maturity, to variable-rate, U.S. Dollar denominated debt based on LIBOR. We have designated these swap agreements as qualifying hedging instruments and are accounting for them as fair value hedges pursuant to ASC 815. As a result of our adoption of ASU 2017-12, we have elected to exclude the portion of the change in fair value of these swap agreements attributable to the related cross-currency basis spread in our assessment of hedge effectiveness. The change in fair value of these swap agreements attributable to the cross-currency basis spread is included in accumulated other comprehensive loss; 
cross-currency swap agreements, which are used to manage foreign currency exchange risk by converting certain of our fixed-rate Euro-denominated borrowings to fixed-rate U.S. Dollar denominated debt and are accounted for as cash flow hedges pursuant to ASC 815; and  
foreign currency borrowings, which were used to reduce the volatility in stockholders’ equity caused by the changes in the foreign currency exchange rates of the Euro with respect to the U.S. Dollar and were accounted for as net investment hedges pursuant to ASC 815 in the first quarter of fiscal 2018. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, we de-designated the foreign currency borrowings as a net investment hedge. 
We also held certain foreign currency contracts that were not designated as hedges pursuant to ASC 815. As of February 28, 2019 and May 31, 2018, the notional amounts of such forward contracts we held to purchase U.S. Dollars in exchange for other major international currencies were $3.8 billion and $3.4 billion, respectively, and the notional amount of forward contracts we held to sell U.S. Dollars in exchange for other major international currencies were $3.2 billion and $1.4 billion, respectively. The fair values of our outstanding foreign currency forward contracts were nominal as of February 28, 2019 and May 31, 2018. The cash flows related to these foreign currency contracts are classified as operating activities. Net gains or losses related to these forward contracts are included in non-operating income, net.  
Our Board of Directors has approved a program for us to repurchase shares of our common stock. On September 17, 2018 and February 15, 2019, we announced that our Board of Directors approved expansions of our stock repurchase program collectively totaling $24.0 billion. As of February 28, 2019, approximately $11.8 billion remained available for stock repurchases pursuant to our stock repurchase program. We repurchased 621.8 million shares for $30.0 billion during the nine months ended February 28, 2019 (including 5.6 million shares for $293 million that were repurchased but not settled) and 131.6 million shares for $6.5 billion during the nine months ended February 28, 2018 under the stock repurchase program. 
In March 2019, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.24 per share of our outstanding common stock, an increase of $0.05 per share over the dividend declared in December 2018. The dividend is payable on April 25, 2019 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on April 11, 2019. Future declarations of dividends and the establishment of future record and payment dates are subject to the final determination of our Board of Directors. 
During the first nine months of fiscal 2019, we issued 49 million restricted stock-based units (RSUs) and 7 million stock options (SOs). Substantially all of the awards were issued as a part of our annual stock-based award process and are subject to service-based vesting restrictions. Our fiscal 2019 stock-based awards issuances were partially offset by forfeitures and cancellations of 24 million shares during the first nine months of fiscal 2019.  
The RSUs and SOs that were granted during the nine months ended February 28, 2019 have vesting restrictions, valuations and contractual lives of a similar nature to those described in Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2018. 
compensation and the U.S. domestic production activity deduction. Our effective tax rates were 11.1% and 12.6%, respectively, for the three and nine months ended February 28, 2019, respectively, and 226.8% and 96.4%, respectively, for the three and nine months ended February 28, 2018, respectively.  
On July 27, 2015, in Altera Corp. v. Commissioner, the U.S. Tax Court issued an opinion related to the treatment of stock-based compensation expense in an intercompany cost-sharing arrangement. Currently the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit is reviewing the case, and a final decision has yet to be issued. At this time, the U.S. Department of the Treasury has not withdrawn the requirement to include stock-based compensation from its regulations. We have reviewed this case and its impact on Oracle and concluded that no adjustment to the consolidated financial statements is appropriate at this time. We will continue to monitor ongoing developments and potential impacts to our consolidated financial statements. 
We have three businesses— cloud and license, hardware and services —each of which is comprised of a single operating segment. All three of our businesses market and sell our offerings globally to businesses of many sizes, government agencies, educational institutions and resellers with a worldwide sales force positioned to offer the combinations that best meet customer needs. 
Our cloud and license business engages in the sale, marketing and delivery of our applications and infrastructure technologies through cloud and on-premise deployment models including our cloud services and license support offerings; and our cloud license and on-premise license offerings. Cloud services and license support revenues are generated from offerings that are typically contracted with customers directly, billed to customers in advance, delivered to customers over time with our revenue recognition occurring over the contractual terms, and renewed by customers upon completion of the contractual terms. Cloud services and license support contracts provide customers with access to the latest updates to the applications and infrastructure technologies as they become available and for which the customer contracted and also includes related technical support services over the contractual term. Cloud license and on-premise license revenues represent fees earned from granting customers licenses, generally on a perpetual basis, to use our database and middleware and our applications software products within cloud and on-premise IT environments. We generally recognize revenues at the point in time the software is made available to the customer to download and use, which typically is immediate upon signature of the license contract. In each fiscal year, our cloud and license business’ contractual activities are typically highest in our fourth fiscal quarter and the related cash flows are typically highest in the following quarter (i.e., in the first fiscal quarter of the next fiscal year) as we receive payments from these contracts. 
Our hardware business provides Oracle Engineered Systems, servers, storage, industry-specific hardware, operating systems, virtualization, management and other hardware-related software to support diverse IT environments. Our hardware business also offers hardware support, which provides customers with software updates for the software components that are essential to the functionality of their hardware products, such as Oracle Solaris and certain other software, and can also include product repairs, maintenance services and technical support services.  
Our services business provides services to customers and partners to help maximize the performance of their investments in Oracle applications and infrastructure technologies. 
We do not track our assets for each business. Consequently, it is not practical to show assets by operating segment. 
The following table is a summary of our total revenues by geographic region. The relative proportion of our total revenues between each geographic region as presented in the table below was materially consistent across each of our operating segments’ revenues for the periods presented. 
The following table presents a summary of our cloud and license business revenues by ecosystem. Applications ecosystem revenues represent the sum of applications related cloud services and license support revenues; and applications related license revenues. Infrastructure ecosystem revenues represent the sum of infrastructure related cloud services and license support revenues; and infrastructure related license revenues. 
These weighted shares relate to anti-dilutive restricted service based stock-based awards and stock options (as calculated using the treasury stock method) and contingently issuable shares under PSO and PSU arrangements. Such shares could be dilutive in the future. 
On June 15, 2011, Hewlett-Packard Company, now Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company (HP), filed a complaint in the California Superior Court, County of Santa Clara against Oracle Corporation alleging numerous causes of action including breach of contract, breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing, defamation, intentional interference with prospective economic advantage, and violation of the California Unfair Business Practices Act. The complaint alleged that when Oracle announced on March 22 and 23, 2011 that it would no longer develop future versions of its software to run on HP’s Itanium-based servers, it breached a settlement agreement signed on September 20, 2010 between HP and Mark Hurd (the Hurd Settlement Agreement), who is our Chief Executive Officer and was both HP’s former chief executive officer and chairman of HP’s board of directors. HP sought a judicial declaration of the parties’ rights and obligations under the Hurd Settlement Agreement and other equitable and monetary relief. Oracle answered the complaint and filed cross-claims. 
After a bench trial on the meaning of the Hurd Settlement Agreement, the court found that the Hurd Settlement Agreement required Oracle to continue to develop certain of its software products for use on HP’s Itanium-based servers at no cost to HP. The case proceeded to a jury trial in May 2016. On June 30, 2016, the jury returned a verdict in favor of HP on its claims for breach of contract and breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing and against Oracle on its cross-claims. The jury awarded HP $3.0 billion in damages. Under the court’s rulings, HP is entitled to post-judgment interest, but not pre-judgment interest, on this award. 
On May 3, 2017, a stockholder derivative lawsuit was filed in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware, and on July 18, 2017, a second stockholder derivative lawsuit was filed in the same court. The second case was brought by an alleged stockholder of Oracle, purportedly on Oracle’s behalf. The suit was brought against all the then-current members and one former member of our Board of Directors, and Oracle as a nominal defendant. Plaintiff alleges that the defendants breached their fiduciary duties by causing Oracle to agree to purchase NetSuite Inc. at an excessive price. Plaintiff seeks declaratory relief, unspecified monetary damages (including interest), and attorneys’ fees and costs. 
On August 9, 2017, the court consolidated the two derivative cases. In a September 7, 2017 order, the court appointed plaintiff’s counsel in the second case as lead plaintiffs’ counsel and designated the July 18, 2017 complaint as the operative complaint. The defendants filed a motion to dismiss on October 27, 2017, and after briefing and argument, the court denied this motion on March 19, 2018. The parties stipulated that all of the individual defendants, except for our Chief Technology Officer and one of our Chief Executive Officers, should be dismissed from this case without prejudice, and on March 28, 2018, the court approved this stipulation. On May 4, 2018, the remaining defendants answered plaintiff’s complaint. 
The material set forth in Note 9 (pertaining to information regarding contingencies related to our income taxes) and Note 12 (pertaining to information regarding legal contingencies) of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q is incorporated herein by reference. 
