See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. 
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.  
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. 
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. 
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. 
We determine if an arrangement is a lease at its inception. Operating lease liabilities are recognized at the lease commencement date based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term. We generally use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at the lease commencement date in determining the present value of future payments, because the implicit rate of the lease is generally not known. ROU assets related to our operating lease liabilities are measured at lease inception based on the initial measurement of the lease liability, plus any prepaid lease payments and less any lease incentives. Our lease terms that are used in determining our operating lease liabilities at lease inception may include options to extend or terminate the leases when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise such options. We amortize our ROU assets as operating lease expense generally on a straight-line basis over the lease term and classify both the lease amortization and imputed interest as operating expenses. We have lease agreements with lease and non-lease components, and in such cases, we generally account for the components as a single lease component. 
At August 31, 2019, ROU assets of $2.0 billion related to our operating leases are included in other non-current assets; and operating lease liabilities of $587 million are included in other current liabilities; and $1.5 billion are included in other non-current liabilities in our condensed consolidated balance sheets. Cash flow movements related to our lease activities are included in prepaid expenses and other assets and accounts payables and other liabilities as presented in net cash provided by operating activities in our condensed consolidated statement of cash flows for the three months ended August 31, 2019.  
Trade receivables, net of allowance for doubtful accounts, and deferred revenues are reported net of related uncollected deferred revenues in our condensed consolidated balance sheets as of August 31, 2019 and May 31, 2019. The amount of revenues recognized during each of the three months ended August 31, 2019 and 2018 that were included in the opening deferred revenues balance as of May 31, 2019 and 2018 were each approximately $3.5 billion. Revenues recognized from performance obligations satisfied in prior periods and impairment losses recognized on our receivables were immaterial in each of the three months ended August 31, 2019 and 2018.  
Remaining performance obligations, as defined in Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2019, were $33.8 billion as of August 31, 2019, approximately 61% of which we expect to recognize as revenues over the next twelve months and the remainder thereafter. 
We offer certain of our customers the option to acquire our software products, hardware products and services offerings through separate long-term payment contracts. We generally sell these contracts that we have financed for our customers on a non-recourse basis to financial institutions within 90 days of the contracts’ dates of execution. We record the transfers of amounts due from customers to financial institutions as sales of financing receivables because we are considered to have surrendered control of these financing receivables. Financing receivables sold to financial institutions were $705 million and $822 million for the three months ended August 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. 
Restricted cash that was included within cash and cash equivalents as presented within our condensed consolidated balance sheets as of August 31, 2019 and May 31, 2019 and our condensed consolidated statements of cash flows for the three months ended August 31, 2019 and 2018 was nominal. 
Acquisition related and other expenses primarily consist of personnel related costs for transitional and certain other employees, integration related professional services, certain business combination adjustments including adjustments after the measurement period has ended and certain other operating items, net. 
Non-operating income, net consists primarily of interest income, net foreign currency exchange losses, the noncontrolling interests in the net profits of our majority-owned subsidiaries (primarily Oracle Financial Services Software Limited and Oracle Corporation Japan) and net other income, including net realized gains and losses related to all of our investments, net unrealized gains and losses related to the small portion of our investment portfolio related to our deferred compensation plan, net unrealized gains and losses related to certain equity securities and non-service net periodic pension income (losses). 
During the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and full year of fiscal 2019, we acquired certain companies and purchased certain technology and development assets primarily to expand our products and services offerings. These acquisitions were not significant individually or in the aggregate to our condensed consolidated financial statements. 
We perform fair value measurements in accordance with FASB Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 820, Fair Value Measurement. ASC 820 defines fair value as the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities required to be recorded at their fair values, we consider the principal or most advantageous market in which we would transact and consider assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the assets or liabilities, such as inherent risk, transfer restrictions and risk of nonperformance. 
Based on the trading prices of the $54.3 billion and $56.1 billion of senior notes and the related fair value hedges that we had outstanding as of August 31, 2019 and May 31, 2019, respectively, the estimated fair values of the senior notes and the related fair value hedges using Level 2 inputs at August 31, 2019 and May 31, 2019 were $59.8 billion and $58.4 billion, respectively. 
Amounts also include any changes in intangible asset balances for the periods presented that resulted from foreign currency translations. 
Pursuant to our business combinations accounting policy, we recorded goodwill adjustments for the effects on goodwill of changes to net assets acquired during the period that such a change is identified, provided that any such change is within the measurement period (up to one year from the date of the acquisition). Amounts also include any changes in goodwill balances for the period presented that resulted from foreign currency translations.  
During fiscal 2019, our management approved, committed to and initiated plans to restructure and further improve efficiencies in our operations due to our acquisitions and certain other operational activities (2019 Restructuring Plan). In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019, our management supplemented the 2019 Restructuring Plan to reflect additional actions that we expect to take. The total estimated restructuring costs associated with the 2019 Restructuring Plan are up to $584 million and will be recorded to the restructuring expense line item within our condensed consolidated statements of operations as they are incurred. We recorded $77 million of restructuring expenses in connection with the 2019 Restructuring Plan in the first three months of fiscal 2020 and we expect to incur the majority of the estimated remaining $31 million through the end of fiscal 2020. Any changes to the estimates of executing the 2019 Restructuring Plan will be reflected in our future results of operations. 
Restructuring costs recorded for individual line items primarily related to employee severance costs. 
All plan adjustments were changes in estimates whereby increases and decreases in costs were generally recorded to operating expenses in the period of adjustments. 
Represents foreign currency translation adjustments and certain other adjustments including those related to our adoption of Topic 842 as of June 1, 2019. 
Deferred cloud services and license support revenues and deferred hardware revenues substantially represent customer payments made in advance for cloud or support contracts that are typically billed in advance with corresponding revenues generally being recognized ratably over the contractual periods. Deferred services revenues include prepayments for our services business and revenues for these services are generally recognized as the services are performed. Deferred cloud license and on-premise license revenues typically resulted from customer payments that related to undelivered products and services or specified enhancements.  
In connection with our acquisitions, we have estimated the fair values of the cloud services and license support performance obligations assumed from our acquired companies. We generally have estimated the fair values of these obligations assumed using a cost build-up approach. The cost build-up approach determines fair value by estimating the costs related to fulfilling the obligations plus a normal profit margin. The sum of the costs and operating profit approximates, in theory, the amount that we would be required to pay a third party to assume these acquired obligations. These aforementioned fair value adjustments recorded for obligations assumed from our acquisitions reduced the cloud services and license support deferred revenues balances that we recorded as liabilities from these acquisitions and also reduced the resulting revenues that we recognized or will recognize over the terms of the acquired obligations during the post-combination periods. 
interest rate swap agreements, which are used to protect us against changes in the fair values of certain of our fixed-rate borrowings attributable to the movements in benchmark interest rates. We have designated these swap agreements as qualifying hedging instruments and are accounting for them as fair value hedges pursuant to ASC 815; 
cross-currency swap agreements, which are used to manage foreign currency exchange risk by converting certain of our fixed-rate Euro-denominated borrowings to fixed-rate U.S. Dollar denominated debt and are accounted for as cash flow hedges pursuant to ASC 815. 
We also held certain foreign currency contracts that were not designated as hedges pursuant to ASC 815. As of August 31, 2019 and May 31, 2019, the notional amounts of such forward contracts we held to purchase U.S. Dollars in exchange for other major international currencies were $3.1 billion and $3.8 billion, respectively, and the notional amount of forward contracts we held to sell U.S. Dollars in exchange for other major international currencies were $3.4 billion and $3.3 billion, respectively. The fair values of our outstanding foreign currency forward contracts were nominal as of August 31, 2019 and May 31, 2019. Net gains or losses related to these forward contracts are included in non-operating income, net.  
Our Board of Directors has approved a program for us to repurchase shares of our common stock. On September 11, 2019, we announced that our Board of Directors approved an expansion of our stock repurchase program by an additional $15.0 billion. As of August 31, 2019, approximately $848 million remained available for stock repurchases pursuant to our stock repurchase program. We repurchased 89.5 million shares for $5.0 billion during the three months ended August 31, 2019 (including 0.7 million shares for $35 million that were repurchased but not settled) and 212.2 million shares for $10.0 billion during the three months ended August 31, 2018 under the stock repurchase program. 
to a Rule 10b5-1 plan. Our stock repurchase program may be accelerated, suspended, delayed or discontinued at any time. 
In September 2019, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.24 per share of our outstanding common stock. The dividend is payable on October 24, 2019 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on October 10, 2019. Future declarations of dividends and the establishment of future record and payment dates are subject to the final determination of our Board of Directors. 
During the first quarter of fiscal 2020, we issued 39 million restricted stock-based units (RSUs), substantially all of which were issued as a part of our annual stock-based award process and are subject to service-based vesting restrictions. These fiscal 2020 stock-based awards issuances were partially offset by forfeitures and cancellations of 6 million shares during the first quarter of fiscal 2020.  
The RSUs that were granted during the three months ended August 31, 2019 have vesting restrictions, valuations and contractual lives of a similar nature to those described in Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2019. 
On June 7, 2019, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, reversing a previous decision of the U.S. Tax Court, held that the U.S. Treasury Department’s regulations requiring the inclusion of stock-based compensation expense in a taxpayer’s cost-sharing calculations were valid. Our financial statements have been prepared consistent with this outcome, but we will continue to monitor any ongoing developments, including the outcome of the taxpayer’s July 22, 2019 request for an en banc rehearing or a potential future appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court, to determine if future changes are required. 
ASC 280, Segment Reporting, establishes standards for reporting information about operating segments. Operating segments are defined as components of an enterprise about which separate financial information is available that is evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision maker, or decision-making group, in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance. Our chief operating decision makers (CODMs) are our Chief Executive Officers and Chief Technology Officer. We are organized by line of business and geographically. While our CODMs evaluate results in a number of different ways, the line of business management structure is the primary basis for which the allocation of resources and financial results are assessed. The footnote information below presents the financial information provided to our CODMs for their review and assists our CODMs with evaluating the company’s performance and allocating company resources. 
We have three businesses—cloud and license, hardware and services—each of which is comprised of a single operating segment. All three of our businesses market and sell our offerings globally to businesses of many sizes, government agencies, educational institutions and resellers with a worldwide sales force positioned to offer the combinations that best meet customer needs. 
Our cloud and license business engages in the sale, marketing and delivery of our applications and infrastructure technologies through cloud and on-premise deployment models, including our cloud services and license support offerings, and our cloud license and on-premise license offerings. Cloud services and license support revenues are generated from offerings that are typically contracted with customers directly, billed to customers in advance, delivered to customers over time with our revenue recognition occurring over the contractual terms, and renewed by customers upon completion of the contractual terms. Cloud services and license support contracts provide customers with access to the latest updates to the applications and infrastructure technologies as they become available and for which the customer contracted and also includes related technical support services over the contractual term. Cloud license and on-premise license revenues represent fees earned from granting customers licenses, generally on a perpetual basis, to use our database and middleware and our applications software products within cloud and on-premise IT environments. We generally recognize revenues at the point in time the software is made available to the customer to download and use, which typically is immediate upon signature of the license contract. In each fiscal year, our cloud and license business’ contractual activities are typically highest in our fourth fiscal quarter and the related cash flows are typically highest in the following quarter (i.e., in the first fiscal quarter of the next fiscal year) as we receive payments from these contracts. 
Our hardware business provides Oracle Engineered Systems, servers, storage, industry-specific hardware, operating systems, virtualization, management and other hardware-related software to support diverse IT environments. Our hardware business also offers hardware support, which provides customers with software updates for the software components that are essential to the functionality of their hardware products, such as Oracle Solaris and certain other software, and can also include product repairs, maintenance services and technical support services.  
Our services business provides services to customers and partners to help maximize the performance of their investments in Oracle applications and infrastructure technologies. 
We do not track our assets for each business. Consequently, it is not practical to show assets by operating segment. 
The following table is a summary of our total revenues by geographic region. The relative proportion of our total revenues between each geographic region as presented in the table below was materially consistent across each of our operating segments’ revenues for the periods presented. 
The following table presents a summary of our cloud and license business revenues by ecosystem. Applications ecosystem revenues represent the sum of applications related cloud services and license support revenues; and applications related license revenues. Infrastructure ecosystem revenues represent the sum of infrastructure related cloud services and license support revenues; and infrastructure related license revenues. 
These weighted shares relate to anti-dilutive restricted service based stock-based awards and stock options as calculated using the treasury stock method and contingently issuable shares under performance-based stock option (PSO) and performance-based restricted stock unit award (PSU) arrangements. Such shares could be dilutive in the future. 
On June 15, 2011, Hewlett-Packard Company, now Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company (HP), filed a complaint in the California Superior Court, County of Santa Clara against Oracle Corporation alleging numerous causes of action including breach of contract, breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing, defamation, intentional interference with prospective economic advantage, and violation of the California Unfair Business Practices Act. The complaint alleged that when Oracle announced on March 22 and 23, 2011 that it would no longer develop future versions of its software to run on HP’s Itanium-based servers, it breached a settlement agreement signed on September 20, 2010 between HP and Mark Hurd (the Hurd Settlement Agreement), who is our Chief Executive Officer and was both HP’s former chief executive officer and chairman of HP’s board of directors. HP sought a judicial declaration of the parties’ rights and obligations under the Hurd Settlement Agreement and other equitable and monetary relief. Oracle answered the complaint and filed cross-claims. 
After a bench trial on the meaning of the Hurd Settlement Agreement, the court found that the Hurd Settlement Agreement required Oracle to continue to develop certain of its software products for use on HP’s Itanium-based servers at no cost to HP. The case proceeded to a jury trial in May 2016. On June 30, 2016, the jury returned a verdict in favor of HP on its claims for breach of contract and breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing and against Oracle on its cross-claims. The jury awarded HP $3.0 billion in damages. Under the court’s rulings, HP is entitled to post-judgment interest, but not pre-judgment interest, on this award. 
On May 3 and July 18, 2017, two alleged stockholders filed separate derivative lawsuits in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware, purportedly on Oracle’s behalf. Thereafter, the court consolidated the two derivative cases and designated the July 18, 2017 complaint as the operative complaint. The consolidated lawsuit was brought against all the then-current members and one former member of our Board of Directors, and Oracle as a nominal defendant. Plaintiff alleges that the defendants breached their fiduciary duties by causing Oracle to agree to purchase NetSuite Inc. (NetSuite) at an excessive price. Plaintiff seeks declaratory relief, unspecified monetary damages (including interest), and attorneys’ fees and costs. 
The defendants filed a motion to dismiss, which the court denied on March 19, 2018. On March 28, 2018, pursuant to a stipulation, all of the individual defendants, except for our Chief Technology Officer and one of our Chief Executive Officers, were dismissed from this case. On May 4, 2018, the remaining defendants answered plaintiff’s complaint. 
On May 4, 2018, the Board of Directors established a Special Litigation Committee (the SLC) to investigate the allegations in this derivative action. Three non-employee directors serve on the SLC. On July 22, 2019, the court permitted plaintiff to file an amended complaint, adding again the defendants who had been dismissed from the case in March 2018. The amended complaint also brought an aiding-and-abetting claim against NetSuite’s former Chief Executive Officer and NetSuite’s former Chief Technology Officer. On August 15, 2019, the SLC filed a letter with the court, stating that the SLC believed that plaintiff should be allowed to proceed with the derivative litigation on behalf of Oracle. On August 30, 2019, members of our Board of Directors that were added as defendants on July 22, 2019 moved to dismiss the amended complaint. No hearing date has been set for this motion. Plaintiff is pursuing discovery. No trial date has been set for this matter. 
On February 12, 2019, a stockholder derivative lawsuit was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California. The derivative suit is brought by two alleged stockholders of Oracle, purportedly on Oracle’s behalf, against all members of our Board of Directors, and Oracle as a nominal defendant. Plaintiffs claim that the alleged actions described in the August 10, 2018 class action discussed above caused harm to Oracle, and that Oracle’s Board members violated their fiduciary duties of care, loyalty, reasonable inquiry, and good faith by failing to prevent this alleged harm. Plaintiffs also allege that defendants’ actions constitute gross mismanagement, waste, and securities fraud. Plaintiffs seek a ruling that this case may proceed as a derivative action, a finding that defendants are liable for breaching their fiduciary duties, an order directing defendants to enact corporate reforms, attorneys’ fees and costs, and unspecified equitable relief. On April 26, 2019, the court approved a stay of this action, which will be lifted if the class action discussed above is dismissed, if the motion to dismiss the class action is denied, or if either party voluntarily chooses to lift the stay. 
On May 8, 2019, a second derivative action was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California. The derivative suit is brought by an alleged stockholder of Oracle, purportedly on Oracle’s behalf, against our Chief Technology Officer, our two Chief Executive Officers, one former Oracle executive, and Oracle as a nominal defendant. Plaintiff claims that the alleged actions described in the August 10, 2018 class action discussed above caused harm to Oracle, and plaintiff raises further allegations of impropriety relating to Oracle’s stock buybacks and acquisition of NetSuite. Plaintiff asserts claims for violation of securities laws, violation of fiduciary duties, contribution and indemnification. Plaintiff seeks a ruling that the case may proceed as a derivative action, and seeks damages, declaratory and other equitable relief, attorneys’ and expert fees and costs. On June 4, 2019, the court issued an order finding that this case was related to the derivative case above and staying the case under the court’s prior stay order. On July 8, 2019, plaintiffs in the two derivative actions filed a consolidated complaint. The actions remain stayed.  
The material set forth in Note 9 (pertaining to information regarding contingencies related to our income taxes) and Note 12 (pertaining to information regarding legal contingencies) of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q is incorporated herein by reference. 
