fls.txt
In addition, reference should be made to our audited Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Item 7.
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in our Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K.


item1.txt
The accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) include the accounts of Harris Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries.
The balance sheet at June 29, 2018 has been derived from our audited financial statements and reflects the adoption of Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), as amended (“ASC 606”), as described below under “Adoption of New Accounting Standards.” The balance sheet at June 29, 2018 does not include all of the information and footnotes required by GAAP for annual financial statements.
Effective June 30, 2018, we adopted ASC 606 using the full retrospective method.
The significant accounting policies disclosed below reflect the impact of our adoption of ASC 606.
Depending on the nature of the modification, we consider whether to account for the modification as an adjustment to the existing contract or as a separate contract.
Therefore, such modifications are accounted for as if they were part of the existing contract, and we may be required to recognize a cumulative catch-up adjustment to revenue at the date of the contract modification.
We determine the transaction price for each contract based on our best estimate of the consideration we expect to receive, which includes assumptions regarding variable consideration, such as award and incentive fees.
These variable amounts are generally awarded upon achievement of certain negotiated performance metrics, program milestones or cost targets and can be based upon customer discretion.
We estimate variable consideration primarily using the most likely amount method.
For contracts with multiple performance obligations, we allocate the transaction price to each performance obligation based on the relative standalone selling price of the good or service underlying each performance obligation.
The standalone selling price represents the amount for which we would sell the good or service to a customer on a standalone basis (i.e., not sold as a bundle with any other products or services).
We recognize revenue for each performance obligation when (or as) the performance obligation is satisfied by transferring control of the promised goods or services underlying the performance obligation to the customer.
Our non-U.S. Government development and production contracts, including international direct commercial contracts and U.S. contracts with state and local agencies, utilities and commercial and transportation organizations, often do not include the FAR clauses described above.
Revenue for our development and production contracts is recognized over time, typically using the percentage of completion (“POC”) cost-to-cost method, whereby we measure our progress towards completion of the performance obligation based on the ratio of costs incurred to date to estimated costs at completion under the contract.


item2.txt
The classification of certain prior-period amounts has been adjusted in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) to conform with current-period classifications.
The increase in revenue in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was due to higher revenue in all three of our segments.
The increase in gross margin in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to higher revenue in all three of our segments and productivity savings, partially offset by program and business revenue mix in our Communication Systems segment.
Our effective tax rate (income taxes as a percentage of income from continuing operations before income taxes) was 16.0 percent in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with 27.6 percent in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
The increase in income from continuing operations per diluted common share in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to higher income from continuing operations and fewer diluted weighted average common shares outstanding due to repurchases of shares of common stock under our repurchase program during the last three quarters of fiscal 2018 and first quarter of fiscal 2019.
The increase in segment gross margin and the decrease in segment gross margin as a percentage of revenue (“gross margin percentage”) in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily reflected higher volume and productivity savings, partially offset by program and business revenue mix.
The slight increase in segment ESA expenses in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 reflected cost containment despite higher revenue, resulting in a lower segment ESA percentage in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
The increase in segment gross margin in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to higher segment revenue.
The decrease in segment gross margin percentage in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to a less favorable mix of Avionics program revenue.
The increase in segment ESA expenses in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to higher employment costs.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings.
Item 1A.


