Under the acquisition method of accounting, we are required to measure identifiable assets acquired, liabilities assumed and any noncontrolling interests in the acquiree at their fair values as of the Closing Date.
The excess of the consideration transferred over those fair values is recorded as goodwill.
We implemented a new organizational structure effective on June 29, 2019, which resulted in changes to our operating segments, which are also reportable segments and referred to as our business segments.
See Note C — Business Divestitures and Asset Sales in these Notes for more information regarding the divestiture of the Harris Night Vision business.
Amounts contained in this Report may not always add to totals due to rounding.
There have been no material changes to our significant accounting policies described in our Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K, except as described in “Adoption of New Accounting Standards” below.
We initially applied ASC 842 for leases existing as of June 29, 2019 and recognized $270 million of right-of-use (“ROU”) assets and $289 million of lease liabilities in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited).
In accordance with ASC 842, we recognized ROU assets and liabilities in our balance sheet for operating and finance leases under which we are the lessee, except for equipment leases and, as permitted by a practical expedient under ASC 842, leases with a term of 12 months or less.
Equipment leases were not material at September 27, 2019 and June 29, 2019.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis (“MD&A”) is intended to assist in an understanding of our financial condition and results of operations.
We will file a transition report on Form 10-KT containing audited financial statements for the Fiscal Transition Period.
As described in more detail in Note A — Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Standards in the Notes and in Note Q — Leases in the Notes, effective June 29, 2019 we adopted ASC 842, a new lease standard that supersedes existing lease guidance under GAAP.
This standard requires, among other things, the recognition of right-of-use assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet for most lease arrangements and disclosure of certain information about leasing arrangements.
The decrease in gross margin as a percentage of revenue (“gross margin percentage”) for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with the quarter ended September 28, 2018 was primarily due to $92 million of additional cost of sales related to the fair value step-up in inventory sold and a mix of program revenue and product sales with relatively lower gross margin percentage in the quarter ended September 27, 2019.
See Note C — Business Divestitures and Asset Sales in the Notes for further information.Legal Proceedings.