fls.txt
In addition, reference should be made to our audited Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Item 7.
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in our Fiscal 2017-2018 Update 8-K.


item1.txt
As discussed above, we adopted ASC 606 effective June 30, 2018.
This standard supersedes nearly all revenue recognition guidance under GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards and supersedes some cost guidance for construction-type and production-type contracts.
We elected to apply the practical expedient related to backlog disclosures for prior reporting periods and the practical expedient related to evaluating the effects of contract modifications that occurred prior to the earliest period presented.
This standard requires, among other things, the recognition of right-of-use assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for most lease arrangements and disclosure of certain information about leasing arrangements.
The new standard currently allows two transition methods with certain practical expedients available.
This standard is effective for fiscal years, and interim reporting periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2018, which for us is our fiscal 2020.
We expect to adopt the new lease standard on June 29, 2019 by applying the standard at the adoption date and recognizing a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings.
The majority of our current lease arrangements are classified as operating leases under existing GAAP lease guidance, and we expect they will continue to be classified as operating leases under the new standard.
During the three quarters ended March 29, 2019, we had options or other share-based compensation outstanding under two shareholder-approved employee stock incentive plans (“SIPs”), the Harris Corporation 2005 Equity Incentive Plan (As Amended and Restated Effective August 27, 2010) and the Harris Corporation 2015 Equity Incentive Plan (the “2015 EIP”).
Grants of share-based awards after October 23, 2015 were made under our 2015 EIP.
We believe that share-based awards more closely align the interests of participants with those of shareholders.
The compensation cost related to our share-based awards that was charged against income was $14 million and $43 million for the quarter and three quarters ended March 29, 2019, respectively, and $13 million and $37 million for the quarter and three quarters ended March 30, 2018, respectively.
Such charges include termination benefits, contract termination costs and costs to consolidate facilities or relocate employees.
We record these charges at their fair value when incurred.


item2.txt
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
We and L3 continue to expect the merger to close in the previously announced time frame of mid-calendar year 2019, although we can give no assurances regarding the timing or occurrence of closing.
See Note A — Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Standards in the Notes for further information.
The increase in segment gross margin in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to higher volume and operational efficiencies, partially offset by program and product mix.
Segment gross margin as a percentage of revenue (“gross margin percentage”) decreased in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily due to program and product mix.
The decreases in segment ESA expenses and segment ESA percentage in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2018 reflected management of expenses on higher revenue.
The increase in segment operating income and comparability of segment operating income as a percentage of revenue (“operating margin percentage”) in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2018 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment.
The increase in segment gross margin, decrease in segment gross margin percentage and decreases in segment ESA expenses and segment ESA percentage for the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 were primarily due to the same reasons noted above regarding this segment for the third quarters of fiscal 2019 and 2018.
The increases in segment operating income and operating margin percentage in the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment for the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 and 2018.


item3.txt
Item 3.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Merger Litigation.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors.
Except as set forth below in this Item 1A.


