fls.txt
In addition, reference should be made to our audited Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Item 7.
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in our Fiscal 2017-2018 Update 8-K.


item1.txt
As discussed above, we adopted ASC 606 effective June 30, 2018.
This standard supersedes nearly all revenue recognition guidance under GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards and supersedes some cost guidance for construction-type and production-type contracts.
We elected to apply the practical expedient related to backlog disclosures for prior reporting periods and the practical expedient related to evaluating the effects of contract modifications that occurred prior to the earliest period presented.
This standard requires, among other things, the recognition of right-of-use assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for most lease arrangements and disclosure of certain information about leasing arrangements.
This standard is effective for fiscal years, and interim reporting periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2018, which for us is our fiscal 2020.
We have developed a project plan to evaluate the impact of this standard and design and implement future processes, tools and controls.
The majority of our current lease arrangements are classified as operating leases under existing GAAP lease guidance, and we expect they will continue to be classified as operating leases under the new standard.
We have not yet made a decision on the transition method, as this determination is primarily dependent on the completion of our evaluation.
Grants of share-based awards after October 23, 2015 were made under our 2015 EIP.
We believe that share-based awards more closely align the interests of participants with those of shareholders.
The compensation cost related to our share-based awards that was charged against income was $15 million and $29 million for the quarter and two quarters ended December 28, 2018, respectively, and $13 million and $24 million for the quarter and two quarters ended December 29, 2017, respectively.
Such charges include termination benefits, contract termination costs and costs to consolidate facilities or relocate employees.
We record these charges at their fair value when incurred.
We have a receivables sale agreement (“RSA”) with a third-party financial institution that permits us to sell, on a non-recourse basis, up to $50 million of outstanding receivables at any given time.


item2.txt
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in our Fiscal 2017-2018 Update 8-K.
The increases in segment operating income and segment operating income as a percentage of revenue (“operating margin percentage”) in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2018 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment.
The increases in segment operating income and operating margin percentage in the first two quarters of fiscal 2019 compared with the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment for the first two quarters of fiscal 2019 and 2018.
The increases in segment operating income and segment operating margin percentage in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2018 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment.
The increases in segment operating income and segment operating margin percentage in the first two quarters of fiscal 2019 compared with the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment for the first two quarters of fiscal 2019 and 2018.
The increases in segment operating income and segment operating margin percentage in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2018 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment.
The increase in segment operating income in the first two quarters of fiscal 2019 compared with the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 and comparability of segment operating margin percentage reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment for the first two quarters of fiscal 2019 and 2018. transaction and integration costs and the timing of other expense accruals in the second quarter of fiscal 2019, partially offset by a $12 million adjustment for deferred compensation in the second quarter of fiscal 2018.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
Merger Litigation.
The complaints in all four lawsuits generally seek injunctive relief enjoining the merger, damages and costs, among other remedies.
Additional lawsuits in connection with the merger may be filed in the future.
Item 1A.


