fls.txt
Certain statements made in this report, as well as oral statements made by the Company from time to time, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.


item1.txt
As permitted by the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission applicable to Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, these notes are condensed and do not contain all disclosures required by generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
As a result of the adoption of ASC 842 "Leases," Cognex Corporation (the "Company") has provided new disclosures related to leases in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
The core principle of ASC 842 is that a lessee should recognize on the balance sheet the assets and liabilities that arise from leases.
The Company determines whether a contract contains a lease by assessing whether there is an identified asset and whether the contract conveys the right to control the use of the identified asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration.
The Company has control of the asset if it has the right to direct the use of the asset and obtains substantially all of the economic benefits from the use of the asset throughout the period of use.
As a practical expedient, the Company does not recognize a lease asset or lease liability for leases with a lease term of 12 months or less.
In the determination of the lease term, the Company considers the existence of extension or termination options and the probability of those options being exercised.
As a practical expedient, the Company accounts for the non-lease components together with the lease components as a single lease component for all of its leases.
The lease liability equals the present value of the future cash payments discounted using the Company's incremental borrowing rate.
The Company’s incremental borrowing rate is the rate of interest that the Company would have to pay to borrow an amount equal to the lease payments over a similar term, which is the three-month London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus a 2.5% credit risk spread.
ASU 2016-13 applies to all reporting entities holding financial assets that are not accounted for at fair value through net income (debt securities).
The amendments in this ASU require that credit losses on available-for-sale debt securities be presented as an allowance rather than as a write-down and an entity will be able to record reversals of credit losses in current period net income.
ASU 2017-08 applies to all reporting entities that hold investments in callable debt securities that have an amortized cost basis in excess of the amount that is repayable by the issuer at the earliest call date (that is, at a premium).
The amendments in this ASU shorten the amortization period for certain callable debt securities held at a premium.
The amendments do not require an accounting change for securities held at a discount; the discount continues to be amortized to maturity.
Under current GAAP, premiums and discounts on callable debt securities generally are amortized to the maturity date.
The amendments in this ASU more closely align the amortization period of premiums and discounts to expectations incorporated in market pricing on the underlying securities.
This ASU should be applied on a modified retrospective basis through a cumulative-effect adjustment directly to retained earnings as of the beginning of the period of adoption, and, in the period of adoption, the entity is required to provide disclosures about the change in accounting principle.


item2.txt
Certain statements made in this report, as well as oral statements made by the Company from time to time, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
In addition to product revenue derived from the sale of machine vision products, the Company also generates revenue by providing maintenance and support, consulting, and training services to its customers; however, service revenue accounted for less than 10% of total revenue for all periods presented.
Cognex machine vision is primarily used to automate manufacturing and distribution processes in a variety of industries where the technology is widely recognized as an important component of automated production and quality assurance.
Virtually every manufacturer can achieve better quality and manufacturing efficiency by using machine vision, and therefore, Cognex products are used by a broad base of customers across a variety of industries, including consumer electronics, automotive, consumer products, food and beverage, pharmaceuticals, and medical devices.
Unfavorable absorption of manufacturing overhead costs over a declining inventory balance contributed to a decrease in the gross margin percentage to 73% of revenue in the first quarter of 2019 compared to 76% of revenue in the first quarter of 2018.
Operating income was 17% of revenue in the first quarter of 2019 compared to 20% of revenue in the first quarter of 2018; net income was 19% of revenue in the first quarter of 2019 compared to 22% of revenue in the first quarter of 2018; and net income per diluted share was $0.19 in the first quarter of 2019 compared to $0.21 in the first quarter of 2018.
Results on a constant-currency basis are not in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP) and should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, results prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP.
Changes in foreign currency exchange rates accounted for a decrease in revenue of approximately 3%, as sales denominated in Euros and Chinese Yuan were translated to U.S.
Excluding the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, constant-currency revenue increased by approximately 5% from the first quarter of 2018.


item4.txt
As required by Rules 13a-15 and 15d-15 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has evaluated, with the participation of management, including the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, the effectiveness of its disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in such rules) as of the end of the period covered by this report.


part2.txt
On December 5, 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors allowed the Company’s Shareholder Rights Agreement and associated rights to expire in accordance with their terms without renewal.


