fls.txt
Certain statements made in this report, as well as oral statements made by the Company from time to time, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.


item1.txt
As permitted by the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission applicable to Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, these notes are condensed and do not contain all disclosures required by generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
As a result of the adoption of ASC 842 "Leases," Cognex Corporation (the "Company") has provided new disclosures related to leases in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
The core principle of ASC 842 is that a lessee should recognize on the balance sheet the assets and liabilities that arise from leases.
The Company determines whether a contract contains a lease by assessing whether there is an identified asset and whether the contract conveys the right to control the use of the identified asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration.
The Company has control of the asset if it has the right to direct the use of the asset and obtains substantially all of the economic benefits from the use of the asset throughout the period of use.
As a practical expedient, the Company does not recognize a lease asset or lease liability for leases with a lease term of 12 months or less.
As a practical expedient, the Company accounts for the non-lease components together with the lease components as a single lease component for all of its leases.
The lease liability equals the present value of the future cash payments discounted using the Company's incremental borrowing rate.
The Company’s incremental borrowing rate is the rate of interest that the Company would have to pay to borrow an amount equal to the lease payments over a similar term, which is the three-month London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus a 2.5% credit risk spread.
The amortization of the lease asset is calculated as the straight-line lease expense less the accretion of the interest on the lease liability each period.
ASU 2016-13 applies to all reporting entities holding financial assets that are not accounted for at fair value through net income (debt securities).
The amendments in this ASU eliminate the probable initial recognition threshold to recognize a credit loss under current U.S. GAAP and, instead, reflect an entity’s current estimate of all expected credit losses.
The amendments in this ASU require that credit losses on available-for-sale debt securities be presented as an allowance rather than as a write-down and an entity will be able to record reversals of credit losses in current period net income.
As of the date of this report, management is in the process of completing the implementation of this ASU, including finalizing the internal credit losses policy and the related processes, internal control, and disclosures.
ASU 2017-08 applies to all reporting entities that hold investments in callable debt securities that have an amortized cost basis in excess of the amount that is repayable by the issuer at the earliest call date (that is, at a premium).
The amendments do not require an accounting change for securities held at a discount; the discount continues to be amortized to maturity.
Under current GAAP, premiums and discounts on callable debt securities generally are amortized to the maturity date.
This ASU should be applied on a modified retrospective basis through a cumulative-effect adjustment directly to retained earnings as of the beginning of the period of adoption, and, in the period of adoption, the entity is required to provide disclosures about the change in accounting principle.
The amendments in this ASU align the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software.


item2.txt
Certain statements made in this report, as well as oral statements made by the Company from time to time, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
In addition to product revenue derived from the sale of machine vision products, the Company also generates revenue by providing maintenance and support, consulting, and training services to its customers; however, service revenue accounted for less than 10% of total revenue for all periods presented.
Cognex machine vision is primarily used to automate manufacturing and distribution processes in a variety of industries where the technology is widely recognized as an important component of automated production and quality assurance.
Virtually every manufacturer can achieve better quality and manufacturing efficiency by using machine vision, and therefore, Cognex products are used by a broad base of customers across a variety of industries, including consumer electronics, automotive, consumer products, food and beverage, pharmaceuticals, and medical devices.
Revenue for the third quarter of 2019 totaled $183,325,000, representing a decrease of 21% from the third quarter of 2018 driven by significantly lower revenue in the consumer electronics industry.
Operating expenses in the third quarter of 2019 decreased by 3% over the third quarter of 2018 due principally to lower expenses related to incentive compensation plans.
Results on a constant-currency basis are not in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP) and should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, results prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP.
Sales to customers based in Europe decreased by 46% for the three-month period and 26% for the nine-month period driven by lower sales in the consumer electronics industry, and to a lessor extent, the automotive industry.
As of the date of this report, we expect revenue for the fourth quarter of 2019 to be lower than both the third quarter of 2019 and the fourth quarter of 2018.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Various claims and legal proceedings generally incidental to the normal course of business are pending or threatened on behalf of or against the Company.


