item1.txt
Shares issuable upon the exercise of stock options and restricted stock units totaling 110,000 and 1,000 were excluded in the computation of diluted earnings per common share during the three-month periods ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, because their impact was anti-dilutive.
Substantially all of the Company’s revenue comes from contracts with customers for subscriptions to its cloud-based products or contracts to perform compliance or other services.
In the case of our news distribution and webcasting offerings, our customers also include private companies.
The Company's revenues are measured based on consideration specified in the contract with each customer.
The Company recognizes revenue for subscriptions evenly over the contract period, upon distribution for per release contracts and upon event completion for webcasting events.
For service contracts that include stand ready obligations, revenue is recognized evenly over the contract period.
The Company believes recognizing revenue for subscriptions and stand ready obligations using a time-based measure of progress, best reflects the Company’s performance in satisfying the obligations.
The Company invoices its customers based on the billing schedules designated in its contracts, typically upfront on either a monthly, quarterly or annual basis or per transaction at the completion of the performance obligation.
Deferred revenue for the periods presented was primarily related to subscription and service contracts, which are billed upfront, quarterly or annually, however the revenue has not yet been recognized.
Deferred revenue as of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018 was $1,464,000 and $1,249,000, respectively, and is expected to be recognized within one year.
Revenue recognized for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, that was included in the deferred revenue balance at the beginning of each reporting period, was approximately $690,000 and $488,000, respectively.
Accounts receivable related to contracts with customers was $2,237,000 and $1,593,000 as of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.
The Company recorded amortization expense of $204,000 and $201,000 during the three-month periods ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
All of the amortization is included in Cost of revenues on the Consolidated Statements of Income, with the exception of $4,000 and $2,000, which is included in Depreciation and amortization for each of the three-month periods ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, as it relates to back-office supporting systems.
Our operating lease agreements are primarily for office space and are included within operating lease right-of-use (“ROU”) assets and operating lease liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets.
ROU assets and lease liabilities are recognized at the commencement date based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term.
Variable lease payments are excluded from the ROU assets and lease liabilities and are recognized in the period in which the obligation for those payments is incurred.
As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments.
Level 3 assets and liabilities include financial instruments whose value is determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies, or other valuation techniques, as well as instruments for which the determination of fair value requires significant management judgment or estimation.
As of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, we believe that the fair value of our financial instruments other than cash and cash equivalents, such as, accounts receivable, our line of credit, notes payable, and accounts payable approximate their carrying amounts.
We record the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations at their respective fair values at the date of acquisition, with any excess purchase price recorded as goodwill.
Intangible assets consist of client relationships, customer lists, distribution partner relationships, software, technology, non-compete agreements and trademarks that are initially measured at fair value.
The authoritative guidance for stock compensation requires that companies estimate the fair value of share-based payment awards on the date of the grant using an option-pricing model.
The new standard establishes a right-of-use model that requires a lessee to recognize a ROU asset and lease liability on the balance sheet for all leases with a term longer than 12 months.
On January 3, 2019 (the “Closing Date”), the Company entered into an Asset Purchase Agreement (the “VWP Agreement”) with Onstream Media Corporation, a Florida corporation (the “Seller”), whereby the Company purchased certain assets related primarily to customer accounts, intellectual property, lease deposits and assumed certain existing contractual obligations related primarily to data processing and storage, bandwidth and facility leases relating to the Seller’s VisualWebcaster Platform ("VWP”).
The acquisition was accounted for under the acquisition method of accounting for business combinations in accordance with FASB ASC 805, Business Combinations, which requires, among other things, that the assets acquired and liabilities assumed be recognized at their fair values as of the acquisition date.
Acquisition-related costs, which totaled approximately $155,000, are not included as a component of the acquisition accounting, but are recognized as expenses in the periods in which the costs are incurred.
During the quarter ended March 31, 2019, the Company employed a third party valuation firm to assist in determining the preliminary purchase price allocation of assets and liabilities acquired from Seller.
Projected cash flows considered multiple factors, including current revenue from existing customers; analysis of expected revenue and attrition trends; reasonable contract renewal assumptions from the perspective of a marketplace participant; probability of executives competing, expected profit margins giving consideration to marketplace synergies; and required returns to contributory assets.
In connection with the acquisition, the Company assumed two short-term leases associated with an office and co-location for certain computer equipment in New York City, New York as well as entered into a three-year office lease in Florida.
In addition to the intangible assets listed below, the purchase price included lease deposits of $13,000 and a right of use asset and corresponding lease liability for the office lease in Florida in the amount of $125,000.
Under the terms of the FSCwire Agreement, the Company paid $1,140,000 at closing ($180,000 of which was paid into an escrow account to cover standard representations and warranties included within the FSCwire Agreement) and issued 3,402 shares of restricted common stock of the Company.
The acquisition was accounted for under the acquisition method of accounting for business combinations in accordance with FASB ASC 805, Business Combinations, which requires, among other things, that the assets acquired and liabilities assumed be recognized at their fair values as of the acquisition date.
Acquisition-related costs, which totaled approximately $52,000, are not included as a component of the acquisition accounting, but are recognized as expenses in the periods in which the costs are incurred.
During the year ended December 31, 2018, the Company employed a third party valuation firm to assist in determining the purchase price allocation of assets and liabilities acquired from FSCwire.
As of March 31, 2019, the Company had unrecognized stock compensation related to the options of $189,000, which will be recognized through 2021.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019, the Company granted 22,000 restricted stock units with an intrinsic value of $11.90 to certain employees of the Company.
As a result, we have elected the short-term lease recognition exemption for our Utah and London office leases, which means, for those leases that qualify, we will not recognize ROU assets or lease liabilities.
In connection with the Company’s acquisition of VWP (See Note 3), the Company assumed two short term leases in New York City, NY and entered into a three-year office lease in Florida.
For the Florida lease, which was signed on January 4, 2019, we recognized a ROU asset and corresponding lease liability of $125,000, which represents the present value of minimum lease payments discounted at 4.25%, the Company’s incremental borrowing rate at lease inception.
ROU assets totaled $186,000 as of March 31, 2019 and are included in Other long-term assets on the Consolidated balance sheets.
As we continue our transition from a services based company to a cloud-based platform company, the new lease affords us the ability to separate our warehouse from our corporate office.
No customers accounted for more than 10% of the operating revenues during the three-month periods ended March 31, 2019 or 2018.
Issuer Direct's principal platform, Platform id., empowers users by thoughtfully integrating the most relevant tools, technologies and products, thus eliminating the complexity associated with producing and distributing their business communications and financial information.
We work with a diverse customer base, which includes not only corporate issuers and private companies, but also investment banks, professional firms, such as investor relations and public relations firms, as well as the accounting and legal communities.
Our customers and their service providers utilize Platform id.
Regardless of the message, Platform id.’s intelligent subscription platform guides thousands of customers through the process to communicate their message to a large audience.
As we continue our transition to a cloud-based subscription business, we expect the Platform and Technology portion of our business to continue to increase over the next several years, both in terms of overall revenue and as compared to the Services portion of our business.
Platform and Technology revenue grew to 64% of total revenue during the first quarter of 2019, compared to 60 %, 56% and approximately 44% of our revenue for the years ending December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
Our ACCESSWIRE® news distribution offering represented a majority of the year over year growth in our Platform and Technology revenue and continues to lead our transition to a full platform solution.
Also contributing to the growth in the percentage of Platform and Technology revenue is our focus on our platform first engagement strategy and converting customers which historically relied on us for services work to utilizing Platform id.
is our primary cloud-based subscription platform that efficiently and effectively helps manage the events of our customers seeking to distribute their messaging to key constituents, investors, markets and regulatory systems around the globe.
Certain of these capabilities were historically part of our disclosure management and shareholder communications offerings, but are now included in our fully integrated platform.
During the latter part of 2018, we completed the integration of FSCwire and rebranded it as ACCESSWIRE Canada, and have now begun to focus on offering those customers the full suite of products included in Platform id.
At the end of 2018, we released a new module to Platform id., centered around the professional conference organizer (PCO).
This cloud-based product is integrated within, and enhances our communications module subscription offerings of newswire, newsrooms, webcasting and shareholder targeting.
This cloud-based platform offers organizers, issuers and investors the ability to register, request and approve 1x1 meetings, manage schedules, event promotion and sponsorship, badge printing, lodging management and mobile apps.
We believe, by combining this module with the other components of Platform id., that it gives us a unique offering for PCOs that is not available elsewhere in the market.
Entering this business expands our current Platform and Technology revenue base, and as an adjacency, should assist in making Platform id.
Most of the customers subscribing to this module today are historical PrecisionIR (“PIR”) – Annual Report Service (“ARS”) users, as well as new customers purchasing the entire Platform id.
However, there can be no assurances these customers will continue using this digital platform in the long term if market conditions or shareholder interest is not present.
This API allows customers, such as financial content sites and investment banks to query an industry or a single company’s current and past earnings calls and present those webcasts on their platforms, under a subscription to Platform id.
Additionally, as a commitment to broadening the reach of our webcast platform, all events are broadcast live within our shareholder outreach module, which helps drive new audiences and give companies the ability to view their analytics and engagement of each event.
VWP allows customers to create, produce and deliver events, which we believe will integrate well into Platform id.
We believe by acquiring VWP, we have significantly strengthened our webcasting product and Platform id.
As we expand our platform it is vital for us to have solutions that can be consumed both to our core public companies but also a growing segment of private customers.
Our investor relations content network is another component of Platform id., which is used to create the investor relations’ tab of a public company’s website.
The clear benefit to our investor relations module is its integration into and with the rest of Platform id., meaning companies can produce content for public distribution and it is automatically linked to their corporate site, distributed to targeted groups and placed into and with our data feed partners.
Platform id.’s disclosure reporting module is a document conversion, editing and filing offering, which is designed for reporting companies and professionals seeking to insource the document drafting, editing and filing processes to the SEC’s EDGAR system and SEDAR, which is the Canadian equivalent of EDGAR.
However, the margins associated with our Platform and Technology business compared to our Services business are higher and align with our long-term strategy, and as such, we believe this module will have a positive impact on our compliance business going forward.
These upgrades also include meeting new SEC mandates for foreign filers that compile financial statements using International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) to be able to utilize our cloud-based platform.
A valued subscription add-on in our Platform id.
offering is the ability for our customers to gain access to real-time information of their shareholders, stock ledgers and reports and to issue new shares from our cloud-based stock transfer module.
However, we have been focused on selling subscriptions of the stock transfer component of our platform, allowing customers to gain access to our cloud-based system in order to move shares or query shareholders, which has resulted in a more efficient process for both our customers and us.
Additionally, we continue to attempt to migrate the install base over to subscriptions of our digital outreach engagement module within Platform id.
We believe we will continue to see further attrition of both customers and revenues in this category as we focus our efforts on our Platform and Technology business.
Total revenue increased by $649,000, or 18%, to $4,179,000 during the three-month period ended March 31, 2019, as compared to $3,530,000 during the same period of 2018.
Revenue from customers obtained from our acquisitions of VWP and FSCwire totaled $627,000 during the three months ended March 31, 2019.
A portion of this revenue is included in both the Platform and Technology and Services revenue streams.
Platform and Technology revenue increased $633,000, or 31%, to $2,665,000 during the three-month period ended March 31, 2019, as compared to $2,032,000 during the same period of 2018.
A majority of the increase is due to the acquisitions of VWP and FSCwire, which accounted for a combined $509,000 of Platform and Technology revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2019.
Additionally, we generated increased revenue from additional subscriptions of Platform id.
These increases were offset by a decline in revenue from our shareholder outreach offering due to customer attrition as revenue of this offering is typically tied-in with contracts of our annual report distribution services.
Platform and Technology revenue increased to 64% of total revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to 58% during the same period of the prior year.
No customers accounted for more than 10% of the revenues during the three-month periods ended March 31, 2019 or 2018.
At March 31, 2019, our deferred revenue balance was $1,464,000, which we expect to recognize over the next twelve months, compared to $1,249,000 at December 31, 2018.
Deferred revenue primarily consists of advance billings for subscriptions of our news distribution and cloud-based products, as well as, annual contracts for legacy ARS services.
The increase is primarily due to an increase in subscriptions of Platform id., with annualized contract value of $189,000, to 20 net new or existing customers during the three months ended March 31,2019.
As a percentage of revenue, general and administrative expenses were 33% for the three-month period ended March 31, 2019, an increase from 28% for the same period of 2018.
As a percentage of revenue, sales and marketing expense were 20% during the three-month period ended March 31, 2019, compared to 21% for the same period of the prior year.
As a percentage of revenue, product development expenses were 8% for both the three-month periods ended March 31, 2019 and 2018.
Depreciation and amortization expenses increased $70,000, or 49%, during the three-month period ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the same period of 2018.
Net income for the three-month period ended March 31, 2019, was $205,000, compared to $320,000 for the same period of 2018.
Current liabilities at March 31, 2019, totaled $3,338,000 including our accounts payable, deferred revenue, accrued payroll liabilities, income taxes payable, current portion of remaining payments for Interwest, lease liabilities and other accrued expenses.
The transition to a subscription model has been and will continue to be key for the long-term sustainable growth management expects from our new platforms.
As of the end of the period covered by this quarterly report on Form10-Q, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer conducted an evaluation of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15 and 15d-15 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934).


