fls.txt



item1.txt
Together with our partners, we provide a full range of enterprise-class software, systems and services solutions that customers use to modernize their infrastructures, build next generation data centers and harness the power of hybrid clouds.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared by the Company, and reflect all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, that are, in the opinion of management, necessary for the fair presentation of our financial position, results of operations, comprehensive income, cash flows and stockholders’ equity for the interim periods presented.
Accordingly, these statements do not include all information and footnotes required by GAAP for annual consolidated financial statements, and should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements as of and for the fiscal year ended April 26, 2019 contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K.
The results of operations for the three months ended July 26, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the operating results to be expected for the full fiscal year or future operating periods.
Such estimates include, but are not limited to, revenue recognition, reserves and allowances; inventory valuation and purchase order accruals; valuation of goodwill and intangibles; restructuring reserves; product warranties; employee compensation and benefit accruals; stock-based compensation; loss contingencies; investment impairments; income taxes and fair value measurements.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2020, we adopted this new standard using the modified retrospective approach, electing the optional transition approach of not adjusting our comparative period financial statements for the impacts of adoption.
We also elected the package of practical expedients that did not require us to reassess existing leases under the new guidance, and the practical expedient to not separate lease and non-lease components for all leases.
Adoption of the new standard on April 27, 2019 resulted in the recognition of approximately $149 million of operating lease ROU assets, net of deferred rent and lease restructuring liabilities, $158 million of lease liabilities, and a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings of $6 million on our condensed consolidated balance sheets.
Adoption of the standard did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated statements of operations or condensed consolidated statements of cash flows.
Leases − We determine if an arrangement is or contains a lease at inception, and we classify leases as operating or finance leases at commencement.
In our condensed consolidated balance sheets, operating lease ROU assets are included in other non-current assets, while finance lease ROU assets are included in property and equipment, net.
ROU assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments over that term.
Operating and finance lease ROU assets and liabilities are recognized at commencement based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term.
As the rate implicit in our leases is typically not readily determinable, in computing the present value of lease payments we generally use our incremental borrowing rate based on information available at the commencement date.


item2.txt
We provide a full range of hybrid cloud data services that simplify management of applications and data across cloud and on-premises environments to accelerate digital transformation.
We deliver a Data Fabric with consistent data services for data visibility and insights, data access and control, and data protection and security, that unleashes the power of data to achieve a new competitive advantage.
Our Data Fabric approach enables our customers to manage, secure and protect their data from on-premises to public to hybrid clouds, all at the scale needed to accommodate the exponential data growth of the digital world.
Flash plays a key role in customers’ digital transformation efforts as they seek to gain advantage through greater speed, responsiveness and value from key business applications - all while lowering total cost of ownership.
To provide visibility into our transition from older products to our newer, higher growth products and clarity into the dynamics of our product revenue, we group our products by “Strategic” and “Mature” solutions.
Prior to this grouping change, Hybrid FAS products and branded E-Series were included in Strategic, while all add-on hardware and OS software were included in Mature.


item3.txt
Fixed Income Investments — As of July 26, 2019, we had fixed income debt investments of $565 million.


item4.txt



part2.txt
The following information should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes in Part I, Item 1 – Financial Statements and Part I, Item 2 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Form 10-Q.
Our business may be harmed by technological trends in our market or if we are unable to keep pace with rapid industry, technological and market changes.
If we are unable to develop, introduce and gain market acceptance for new products and services while managing the transition from older ones, or if we cannot provide the expected level of quality and support for our new products and services, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed.
Due to the complexity of storage software, subsystems and appliances and the difficulty in gauging the engineering effort required to produce new products and services, such products and services are subject to significant technical and quality control risks.
are introduced, we must also avoid excessive levels of older product inventories and related components and ensure that new products and services can be delivered to meet customers’ demands.
Further risks inherent in the introduction of new products, services and solutions include the uncertainty of price-performance relative to products of competitors, competitors’ responses to the introductions, delays in sales caused by the desire of customers to evaluate new products for extended periods of time and our partners’ investment in selling our new products and solutions.
As we enter new or emerging markets, we will likely increase demands on our service and support operations and may be exposed to additional competition.
We offer customers a full range of consumption models, including the deployment of our software through our subscription and cloud-based Software as a Service (SaaS), and utility pricing and managed services offerings for our hardware and software systems.


