ITEM 1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 



ESCO TECHNOLOGIES INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 



CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS 









See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 





CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS 









See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 





ESCO TECHNOLOGIES INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 



CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) 









See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 





ESCO TECHNOLOGIES INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 



CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 









See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 





ESCO TECHNOLOGIES INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 



CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 









See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 





ESCO TECHNOLOGIES INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 





  1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION  



The accompanying consolidated financial statements, in the opinion of management, include all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring accruals, necessary for a fair presentation of the results for the interim periods presented. The consolidated financial statements are presented in accordance with the requirements of Form 10-Q and consequently do not include all the disclosures required for annual financial statements by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). For further information, refer to the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017. 



The Company’s results for the three and nine-month periods ended June 30, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results for the entire 2018 fiscal year. References to the third quarters of 2018 and 2017 represent the fiscal quarters ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. 



The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities. Actual results could differ from those estimates. 





On March 14, 2018, the Company acquired the assets of Manta Test Systems Inc. (Manta), a North American utility solutions provider located in Mississauga, Ontario, Canada, for a purchase price of $9.5 million in cash. Manta has annualized sales of approximately $8 million. Since the date of acquisition, the operating results for Manta have been included as a product line of Doble Engineering Company within the Company’s USG segment. Based on the preliminary purchase price allocation, the Company recorded approximately $0.4 million of accounts receivable, $1.1 million of inventory, $0.2 million of property, plant and equipment, $0.4 million of accounts payable and accrued expenses, $3.5 million of goodwill, $1.2 million of tradenames and $3.5 million of amortizable intangible assets consisting of customer relationships with a weighted average life of 13 years. 



  3. EARNINGS PER SHARE (EPS)  











The Company provides compensation benefits to certain key employees under several share-based plans providing for performance-accelerated restricted shares (restricted shares), and to non-employee directors under a non-employee directors compensation plan. 



Performance-Accelerated Restricted Share Awards 



Compensation expense related to the restricted share awards was $0.9 million and $3.1 million for the three and nine-month periods ended June 30, 2018, respectively, and $1.0 million and $3.3 million for the corresponding periods of 2017. There were 316,544 non-vested shares outstanding as of June 30, 2018. 



Non-Employee Directors Plan 



Compensation expense related to the non-employee director grants was $0.3 million and $0.8 million for the three and nine-month periods ended June 30, 2018, respectively, and $0.3 million and $0.8 million for the corresponding periods of 2017. 













  6. GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS  











  7. BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION  







Management evaluates and measures the performance of its reportable segments based on “Net Sales” and “EBIT”, which are detailed in the table below. EBIT is defined as earnings before interest and taxes. 





Non-GAAP Financial Measures 



The financial measure “EBIT” is presented in the above table and elsewhere in this Report. EBIT on a consolidated basis is a non-GAAP financial measure. Management believes that EBIT is useful in assessing the operational profitability of the Company’s business segments because it excludes interest and taxes, which are generally accounted for across the entire Company on a consolidated basis. EBIT is also one of the measures used by management in determining resource allocations within the Company as well as incentive compensation. A reconciliation of EBIT to net earnings is set forth in Item 2, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – EBIT. 



The Company believes that the presentation of EBIT provides important supplemental information to investors to facilitate comparisons with other companies, many of which use similar non-GAAP financial measures to supplement their GAAP results. However, the Company’s non-GAAP financial measures may not be comparable to other companies’ non-GAAP financial performance measures. Furthermore, the use of non-GAAP financial measures is not intended to replace any measures of performance determined in accordance with GAAP. 











The Company’s existing credit facility (“the Credit Facility”) matures December 21, 2020. The Credit Facility includes a $450 million revolving line of credit as well as provisions allowing for the increase of the credit facility commitment amount by an additional $250 million, if necessary, with the consent of the lenders. The bank syndication supporting the facility is comprised of a diverse group of nine banks led by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent. 



At June 30, 2018, the Company had approximately $180 million available to borrow under the Credit Facility, and a $250 million increase option subject to lender approval, in addition to $43.3 million cash on hand. At June 30, 2018, the Company had $262 million of outstanding borrowings under the Credit Facility in addition to outstanding letters of credit of $8.3 million. The Company classified $20.0 million as the current portion of long-term debt as of June 30, 2018, as the Company intends to repay this amount within the next twelve month period; however, the Company has no contractual obligation to repay such amount during the next twelve month period. 



The Credit Facility requires, as determined by certain financial ratios, a facility fee ranging from 12.5 to 27.5 basis points per year on the unused portion. The terms of the facility provide that interest on borrowings may be calculated at a spread over the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) or based on the prime rate, at the Company’s election. The facility is secured by the unlimited guaranty of the Company’s material domestic subsidiaries and a 65% pledge of the material foreign subsidiaries’ share equity. The financial covenants of the Credit Facility include a leverage ratio and an interest coverage ratio. The weighted average interest rates were 3.17% and 2.97% for the three and nine-month periods ending June 30, 2018, respectively, and 2.11% and 1.90% for the corresponding periods of 2017. At June 30, 2018, the Company was in compliance with all debt covenants. 



  9. INCOME TAX EXPENSE  





In the first quarter of 2018, the Company recorded a $2.3 million provisional estimate of the income tax effects of the future repatriation of the cumulative earnings of its foreign subsidiaries which unfavorably impacted the year-to-date effective tax rate by 4.7%. An additional $7.5 million pension contribution for the 2017 plan year was approved during the second quarter of 2018 increasing the value of the deferred tax liability by $1.0 million (provisional amount). This favorable adjustment, net of the $0.3 million unfavorable impact to the 2017 Domestic Production Deduction, favorably impacted the year-to-date effective tax rate by 1.6%. An accounting method change was filed with the 2017 tax return which resulted in an additional deferred tax liability to be adjusted as a result of the TCJA. A favorable adjustment, net of the $0.3 million unfavorable impact to the 2017 Domestic Production deduction, favorably impacted the third quarter and year-to-date effective tax rate by 2.9% and 1.4%, respectively. The income tax expense in the third quarter and first nine months of 2018 was favorably impacted by return to provision true-ups decreasing the third quarter and year-to-date effective tax rate by 1.4% and 0.7%, respectively. In 2017, the Company elected to adopt Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-09, Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting, resulting in income tax expense in the third quarter and nine months of 2017 being favorably impacted by additional tax benefits on share-based compensation that vested during the quarter decreasing the effective tax rate by 5.2% and 1.8%, respectively. Income tax expense in the third quarter and nine months of 2018 was also favorably impacted by additional tax benefits on share-based compensation that vested during the quarter decreasing the effective tax rate by 1.9% and 0.9%, respectively. 



Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 (SAB 118) was issued by the SEC effective December 22, 2017. SAB 118 allows registrants to record provisional amounts of the income tax effects of the TCJA where the information necessary to complete the accounting under ASC Topic 740 is not available but the amounts are based on reasonable estimates. SAB 118 permits registrants to record adjustments to its provisional amounts during the measurement period (which cannot exceed one year). 





In the first and second quarter of 2018, the Company recorded reasonable provisional estimates of the TCJA income tax effects. During the third quarter of 2018, the Company collected and analyzed additional information needed to compute the Company’s deferred tax assets and liabilities. However, these amounts remain provisional as the Company needs more time to collect and analyze information primarily related to the federal impact on the value of state deferred tax assets and liabilities. The income tax effects of subjecting the Company’s cumulative foreign earnings to federal income tax also remains provisional as the Company needs more time to collect and analyze the cumulative balance of earnings subject to the tax and the amount of foreign tax credit that is available to offset the tax. 



Since the TCJA subjected the Company’s cumulative foreign earnings to U.S. tax, repatriation of those earnings generally provides that no additional federal tax will be imposed. However, the permissible amount of repatriation can be restricted by local law and a repatriation can result in tax expense due to local country withholding tax, U.S. state tax, and changes in foreign exchange rates. The Company is evaluating these considerations to determine the amount of its foreign subsidiaries’ cumulative earnings it intends to indefinitely reinvest. 



The TCJA includes a tax on global intangible low-taxed income (“GILTI”). The Company expects it will be subject to this tax. At its January 10, 2018 meeting, the FASB staff indicated that companies should make and disclose a policy election as to whether they will recognize deferred taxes for basis differences expected to reverse as GILTI or whether they will account for GILTI as period costs if and when incurred. Because there are interpretative questions associated with the approach that involves recognizing deferred taxes, the Company is in the process of evaluating and will make the accounting policy election during the SAB 118 measurement period. 



















Market risks relating to the Company’s operations result primarily from changes in interest rates and changes in foreign currency exchange rates. The Company is exposed to market risk related to changes in interest rates and selectively uses derivative financial instruments, including forward contracts and swaps, to manage these risks. During 2016, the Company entered into several forward contracts to purchase pounds sterling (GBP) to hedge two deferred payments due in connection with the acquisition of Plastique. During the first quarter of 2018, the Company entered into three interest rate swaps with a notional amount of $150 million to hedge some of its exposure to variability in future LIBOR-based interest payments on variable rate debt. In addition, the Company’s Canadian subsidiary Morgan Schaffer enters into foreign exchange contracts to manage foreign currency risk as a portion of their revenue is denominated in U.S. dollars. The Company expects hedging gains or losses to be essentially offset by losses or gains on the related underlying exposures. All derivative instruments are reported in either accrued expenses or other receivables on the balance sheet at fair value. For derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges, the gain or loss on the derivative is deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income until recognized in earnings with the underlying hedged item. The interest rate swaps entered into during the first quarter of 2018 were not designated as cash flow hedges and, therefore, the gain or loss on the derivative is reflected in earnings each period. 















 ·Level 1 – inputs to the valuation methodology are quoted prices (unadjusted) for identical assets or liabilities in active markets. 



 ·Level 2 – inputs to the valuation methodology include quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, and inputs that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the financial instrument. 



 ·Level 3 – inputs to the valuation methodology are unobservable and significant to the fair value measurement. 



Financial Assets and Liabilities 



The Company has estimated the fair value of its financial instruments as of June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017 using available market information or other appropriate valuation methodologies. The carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, receivables, inventories, payables, debt and other current assets and liabilities approximate fair value because of the short maturity of those instruments. 





Fair Value of Financial Instruments 







Valuation was based on third party evidence of similarly priced derivative instruments. 



Nonfinancial Assets and Liabilities 



The Company’s nonfinancial assets such as property, plant and equipment, and other intangible assets are not measured at fair value on a recurring basis; however they are subject to fair value adjustments in certain circumstances, such as when there is evidence that an impairment may exist. No impairments were recorded during the three and nine-month periods ended June 30, 2018. 





In March 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-07, Improving the Presentation of Net Periodic Pension Cost and Net Periodic Postretirement Benefit Cost, which updates ASC 715, Compensation – Retirement Benefits. This update permits only the service cost component of net periodic pension and postretirement expense to be reported with other compensation costs, while all other components are required to be reported separately in other deductions, outside any subtotal of operating income. These updates are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, with early adoption permitted, and must be adopted on a retrospective basis. The updates change presentation only and will not impact the Company’s results of operations. 



In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-12, Targeted Improvements to Accounting for Hedge Activities, which updates ASC 815, Derivatives and Hedging. This update is intended to amend the hedge accounting model to enable entities to better align the economics of risk management activities and financial reporting. The updates eliminate the requirement to separately measure and report hedge ineffectiveness and simplify hedge documentation and effectiveness assessment requirements. These updates are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, with early adoption permitted, and must be adopted using a modified retrospective approach. These updates are not expected to materially impact the Company’s results of operations. 



In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-062, Leases (Topic 842), which, among other things, requires an entity to recognize lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet and disclose key information about leasing arrangements. This standard will increase an entities’ reported assets and liabilities. The standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018 and mandates a modified retrospective transition period for all entities. The Company is currently assessing the impact of this standard on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. 



In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, (ASU 2014-09) which requires an entity to recognize the amount of revenue to which it expects to be entitled for the transfer of promised goods or services to customers. This guidance has been further clarified and amended. The new standard will be effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, and interim periods within those annual periods. The standard permits the use of either the retrospective or cumulative effect transition method. The Company has selected the cumulative effect method of transition to the new standard. Because the new standard impacts the Company’s business processes, systems and controls, we developed a project plan to guide the implementation. This project plan included analyzing the standard’s impact on our contract portfolio, comparing our historical accounting policies and practices to the requirements of the new standard, and identifying differences from applying the requirements of the new standard to our contracts. We developed internal controls to ensure that we adequately evaluated our portfolio of contracts under the five-step model to ensure proper assessment of our operating results under ASU 2014-09. We reported on the progress of the implementation to the Audit Committee and the Board of Directors on a regular basis during the project’s duration. The adoption of ASU 2014-09 will have one primary impact on our portfolio of contracts and our Consolidated Financial Statements which is that more of our contracts within our Filtration and Technical Packaging segments will recognize revenue and earnings over time as the work progresses versus at a single point of time. This standard will not change the total revenue or operating earnings recognized, only the timing of when those amounts are recognized. The Company is currently in the process of finalizing the effect that ASU 2014-09 will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. 





