fls.txt



item1.txt
Significant changes to our policies resulting from the adoption are provided below.
We adopted ASC 606 using the modified retrospective transition method applied to contracts that were not substantially complete at the end of fiscal year 2018.
We recorded a $5.5 million adjustment to increase retained earnings to reflect the cumulative impact of adopting this standard at the beginning of fiscal year 2019, primarily related to certain long-term contracts our Filtration and Technical Packaging segments have that converted to the cost-to-cost method for revenue recognition.
Arrangements with customers that include payment terms extending beyond one year are not significant.
The contracts may contain multiple products, which are capable of being distinct as the customer could benefit from each product on its own or together with other readily available resources.
Therefore, each product is distinct in context of the contract and will be accounted for as a separate performance obligation.
Under this measure, the extent of progress towards completion is measured based on the ratio of costs incurred to date to the estimated costs at completion of the performance obligation, and revenue is recorded proportionally as costs are incurred based on an estimated profit margin.
Certain of our long-term contracts contain incentive fees that can increase the transaction price.
These variable amounts generally are awarded upon achievement of certain performance metrics, program milestones or cost targets and can be based upon customer discretion.
Our cost estimation process is based on the professional knowledge and experience of engineers and program managers along with finance professionals.
Under the typical payment terms of our long term fixed price contracts, the customer pays us either performance-based or progress payments.
Performance-based payments represent interim payments based on quantifiable measures of performance or on the achievement of specified events or milestones.
Amounts billed and due from our customers are classified in Accounts receivable, net.
Products accounted for under this guidance include the construction and installation of complex test chambers to a buyer’s specifications that provide its customers with the ability to measure and contain magnetic, electromagnetic and acoustic energy.
The goods and services related to each installed test chamber are not distinct due to the significant amount of integration provided and each installed chamber is accounted for as a single performance obligation.
We use milestones to measure progress for our Test segment contracts because it best depicts the transfer of control to the customer that occurs as we incur costs on our contracts.
Our cost estimation process is based on the professional knowledge and experience of engineers and program managers along with finance professionals.
Performance-based payments represent interim payments based on quantifiable measures of performance or on the achievement of specified events or milestones.


item2.txt
The increase in the first quarter of 2019 compared to the first quarter of 2018 was mainly due to net sales increases from Morgan Schaffer and the Vanguard Instruments product line and new products and software solutions at Doble partially offset by a decrease in net sales at NRG due to softness in the renewable energy market.
Of the new orders received in the first quarter of 2019, $83.7 million related to Filtration products, $45.4 million related to Test products, $52.0 million related to USG products, and $17.0 million related to Technical Packaging products.
Amortization of intangible assets was $4.7 million and $4.4 million for the first quarter of 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Amortization expenses consist of amortization of acquired intangible assets from acquisitions and other identifiable intangible assets (primarily software).
There were no individually significant items in other (income) expenses, net, in the first quarter of 2018.
The Company evaluates the performance of its operating segments based on EBIT, and provides EBIT on a consolidated basis, which is a non-GAAP financial measure.
Please refer to the discussion of non-GAAP financial measures in Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, above.
The following table presents a reconciliation of EBIT to net earnings.
In addition, EBIT in the first quarter of 2019 included $0.3 million of restructuring charges related to the Plastique facility consolidation, which were recorded in the first quarter of 2019.
Corporate costs included in EBIT were $10.4 million and $8.9 million in the first quarter of 2019 and 2018, respectively.


item3.txt
In 2018, the Company entered into three interest rate swaps with a notional amount of $150 million to hedge some of its exposure to variability in future LIBOR-based interest payments on variable rate debt.


item4.txt



