Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  



Overview  



The discussion set forth below, as well as other portions of this Quarterly Report, contains statements concerning potential future events. Such forward-looking statements are based upon assumptions by management, as of the date of this Quarterly Report, including assumptions about risks and uncertainties faced by the Company. Readers can identify these forward-looking statements by their use of such verbs as expects, anticipates, believes or similar verbs or conjugations of such verbs. If any of the Company’s assumptions prove incorrect or should unanticipated circumstances arise, actual results could materially differ from those anticipated by such forward-looking statements. The differences could be caused by a number of factors or combination of factors including, but not limited to, those factors identified in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 29, 2018. This report has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC” or the “Commission”) in Washington, D.C. and can be obtained by contacting the SEC’s public reference operations or obtaining it through the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov. Readers are strongly encouraged to consider those factors when evaluating any forward-looking statement concerning the Company. The Company will not update any forward-looking statements in this Quarterly Report to reflect future events or developments. 



The information contained in this Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations should be read in conjunction with the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto included in this Form 10-Q and the audited financial statements and notes thereto in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 29, 2018. 



The Company is a leading worldwide provider of navigation, communications and information devices, most of which are enabled by Global Positioning System, or GPS, technology. We operate in five reportable segments, which serve the outdoor, fitness, marine, auto and aviation markets. The Company’s segments offer consumer products through its network of subsidiary distributors and independent dealers and distributors and some also maintain relationships with original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). However, the nature of products and types of customers for the five segments may vary significantly. As such, the segments are managed separately. 





Results of Operations  









The segment table located in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements sets forth the Company’s results of operations (in thousands) including net sales, gross profit, and operating income for each of the Company’s five segments during the periods shown. For each line item in the table, the total of the outdoor, fitness, marine, auto, and aviation segments’ amounts equals the amount in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income included in Item 1. 



As indicated in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, the methodology used to allocate certain selling, general, and administrative expenses was refined in the first quarter of 2019. The amounts presented below for the 13-weeks and 26-weeks ended June 30, 2018 are presented here as they were originally reported. 





Comparison of 13-Weeks ended June 29, 2019 and June 30, 2018  





Net Sales   





Net sales increased 7% for the 13-week period ended June 29, 2019 when compared to the year-ago quarter. The outdoor, fitness, marine, and aviation segments collectively increased by 12%, contributing 83% of total revenue. Fitness was the largest portion of our revenue mix at 26% in the second quarter of 2019 compared to 25% in the second quarter of 2018. 



Total unit sales in the second quarter of 2019 increased to 3,838 when compared to total unit sales of 3,783 in the second quarter of 2018. 



Outdoor, fitness, marine, and aviation segment revenue increased 4%, 12%, 13%, and 20%, respectively, when compared to the year-ago quarter. The outdoor segment revenue increase was primarily driven by strong sales in golf and inReach product lines. The fitness segment revenue increase was primarily driven by strong sales in wearables and sales from Tacx, a newly acquired group of subsidiaries that designs and manufactures indoor bike trainers. The current quarter marine segment revenue increase was primarily driven by sales growth in chartplotters and sonar products. The aviation segment revenue increase was driven by sales growth across most product lines in both OEM and aftermarket categories. Auto segment revenue decreased 13% from the year-ago quarter, primarily due to the ongoing PND market contraction. 



Gross Profit   





Gross profit dollars in the second quarter of 2019 increased 10%, primarily due to growth in net sales along with a gross margin increase of 180 basis points compared to the year-ago quarter. Gross margin increased in the outdoor, marine, auto, and aviation segments, slightly offset by a gross margin decrease in the fitness segment when compared to the year-ago quarter. 



The marine segment gross margin increase of 200 basis points was primarily attributable to product mix. The auto segment gross margin increase of 570 basis points was primarily attributable to lower license expense and product mix. A portion of license expense favorability in the auto segment is expected to continue for the remainder of the year. The fitness segment gross margin decrease was primarily attributable to lower average selling prices and product mix. 





Advertising Expense   





Advertising expense as a percent of revenue was slightly lower when compared to the year-ago quarter and decreased 5% in absolute dollars. The total absolute dollar decrease was primarily attributable to decreased cooperative advertising and point-of-sale display advertising expense in the auto segment and decreased media advertising in the fitness segment, slightly offset by increased media and cooperative advertising in the outdoor segment. 



Selling, General and Administrative Expense   





Selling, general and administrative expense increased 7% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue compared to the year-ago quarter. The absolute dollar increase in the second quarter of 2019 was primarily attributable to personnel costs, legal related costs, and expenses from recent acquisitions. The fitness segment increase as a percent of revenue was primarily due to expenses from newly acquired Tacx. The auto segment decrease as a percent of revenue was primarily due to less amortization expense associated with intangible assets. 



As noted above and in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company refined its methodology to allocate certain selling, general and administrative expenses in the beginning of the 2019 fiscal year. The prior year amounts are presented here as originally reported. For comparative purposes, we estimate selling, general and administrative expenses for the second quarter of 2018 would have been approximately $5 million more for the aviation segment, approximately $4 million less for the marine segment, approximately $1 million less for the outdoor segment, and not significantly different for the fitness and auto segments. 



Considering the refined allocation methodology noted above, we estimate selling, general and administrative expenses for the 52-weeks ended December 29, 2018 would have been approximately $18 million more for the aviation segment, approximately $11 million less for the marine segment, approximately $7 million less for the outdoor segment, and not significantly different for the fitness and auto segments. 



Research and Development Expense   





Research and development expense as a percent of revenue was relatively flat compared to the year-ago quarter and increased 5% in absolute dollars. The absolute dollar increase was primarily due to higher engineering personnel costs related to wearable and aviation product offerings and expenses resulting from recent acquisitions, partially offset by the capitalization of certain contractually reimbursable preproduction design and development personnel costs within the auto segment. Our research and development spending is focused on product development, improving existing software capabilities, and exploring new categories.  





Operating Income   





Operating income increased 18% in absolute dollars and increased 250 basis points when compared to the year-ago quarter. In the current quarter, the operating income growth in absolute dollars was primarily attributable to revenue growth and gross margin improvement. The increase in operating income as a percent of revenue was primarily attributable to improved gross margin and leverage of operating expenses, as discussed above. 



Other Income (Expense)   







Foreign currency gains and losses for the Company are typically driven by movements in the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling in relation to the U.S. Dollar. The Taiwan Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin Corporation, the U.S. Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin (Europe) Ltd., and the Euro is the functional currency of most of our other European subsidiaries, although some transactions and balances are denominated in British Pounds. The majority of the Company’s consolidated foreign currency gain or loss is typically driven by the significant cash and marketable securities, receivables and payables held in a currency other than the functional currency at a given legal entity. Due to the relative size of the entities using a functional currency other than the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling, currency fluctuations related to these entities are not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s financial statements. 



The $3.4 million currency gain recognized in the second quarter of 2019 was primarily due to the U.S. Dollar weakening against the Euro and strengthening against the Taiwan Dollar, partially offset by the U.S. Dollar strengthening against the British Pound Sterling, within the 13-weeks ended June 29, 2019. During this period, the U.S. Dollar weakened 1.4% against the Euro and strengthened 0.3% against the Taiwan Dollar, resulting in gains of $3.7 million and $1.7 million, respectively, while the U.S. Dollar strengthened 2.6% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in a loss of $0.7 million. The remaining net currency loss of $1.3 million was related to the timing of transactions and impacts of other currencies, each of which was individually immaterial. 



The $2.6 million currency gain recognized in the second quarter of 2018 was primarily due to the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against the Taiwan Dollar, partially offset by the U.S. Dollar strengthening against the Euro and British Pound Sterling within the 13-weeks ended June 30, 2018. During this period, the U.S. Dollar strengthened 4.7% against the Taiwan Dollar, resulting in a gain of $26.7 million, while the U.S. Dollar strengthened 5.2% against the Euro and 5.8% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in losses of $14.0 million and $1.9 million, respectively. The remaining net currency loss of $8.2 million was related to the timing of transactions and impacts of other currencies, each of which was individually immaterial. 





Income Tax Provision   



The Company recorded income tax expense of $52.1 million in the 13-week period ended June 29, 2019, compared to income tax expense of $45.7 million in the 13-week period ended June 30, 2018. The effective tax rate was 18.9% in the second quarter of 2019, compared to 19.4% in the second quarter of 2018. 



The Company expects to record an income tax benefit due to the revaluation of certain Switzerland deferred tax assets resulting from Swiss tax reform. However, the Company is unable to estimate the timing and the amount of the income tax benefit due to the dependency on the future enactment of Swiss cantonal tax rate. 



Net Income   



As a result of the above, net income for the 13-weeks ended June 29, 2019 was $223.7 million compared to $190.3 million for the 13-week period ended June 29, 2018, an increase of $33.4 million. 



Comparison of 26-Weeks Ended June 29, 2019 and 26-Weeks Ended June 30, 2018  



Net Sales   





Net sales increased 7% for the 26-week period ended June 29, 2019 when compared to the year-ago period. The outdoor, fitness, marine, and aviation segments collectively increased by 12%, contributing 84% of total revenue. Fitness was the largest portion of our revenue mix at 25% in the first half of 2019 compared to 24% in the first half of 2018. 



Total unit sales in the first half of 2019 increased to 7,019 when compared to the total unit sales of 6,739 in the first half of 2018. 



Outdoor, fitness, marine, and aviation segment revenues increased 5%, 10%, 15%, and 19%, respectively, when compared to the year-ago period. The outdoor segment revenue increase was primarily driven by strong sales in golf and inReach product lines. Fitness segment revenue increases were primarily driven by strong sales in wearables and sales from newly acquired Tacx. Marine segment revenue increases were primarily driven by sales growth in chartplotters and sonar products. The aviation segment revenue increase was driven by sales growth across most product lines in both OEM and aftermarket categories. Auto segment revenue decreased 12% from the year-ago period, primarily due to the ongoing PND market contraction. 





Gross Profit   





Gross profit dollars in the 26-week period ended June 29, 2019 increased 8% while gross margin remained relatively flat compared to the year-ago period. Gross margin increased 400 basis points in the auto segment when compared to the year-ago period, primarily attributable to lower license expense and product mix. A portion of license expense favorability in the auto segment is expected to continue for the remainder of the year. Gross margin remained relatively flat within the outdoor, marine, and aviation segments. Gross margin decreased in the fitness segment primarily due to lower average selling prices and product mix. 



Advertising Expense   





Advertising expense was relatively flat in absolute dollars and as a percent of revenue when compared to the year-ago period. Increases in cooperative advertising in the outdoor and marine segments and increased media advertising in the outdoor segment were generally offset by decreases in cooperative advertising and point-of-sale display advertising expense in the auto segment. 



Selling, General and Administrative Expense   





Selling, general and administrative expense increased 8% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue when compared to the year-ago period. The absolute dollar increase was primarily attributable to personnel costs, legal related costs, and expenses from recent acquisitions. The fitness segment increase as a percent of revenue was primarily due to expenses from newly acquired Tacx. The auto segment decrease as a percent of revenue was primarily due to less amortization expense associated with intangible assets. 



As noted above and in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company refined its methodology to allocate certain selling, general and administrative expenses in the beginning of the 2019 fiscal year. The prior year amounts are presented here as originally reported. For comparative purposes, we estimate selling, general and administrative expenses for the first half of 2018 would have been approximately $9 million more for the aviation segment, approximately $8 million less for the marine segment, approximately $1 million less for the outdoor segment, and not significantly different for the fitness and auto segments. Selling, general and administrative expense as a percent of revenue also decreased in marine due to leverage of operating costs. 





Considering the refined allocation methodology noted above, we estimate selling, general and administrative expenses for the 52-weeks ended December 29, 2018 would have been approximately $18 million more for the aviation segment, approximately $11 million less for the marine segment, approximately $7 million less for the outdoor segment, and not significantly different for the fitness and auto segments. 



Research and Development Expense   





Research and development expense as a percent of revenue was slightly lower when compared to the year-ago period and increased $11.1 million in absolute dollars. The absolute dollar increase in research and development expenses when compared with the year-ago period was primarily due to engineering personnel costs related to our wearable and aviation product offerings and expenses resulting from recent acquisitions, partially offset by the capitalization of certain contractually reimbursable preproduction design and development personnel costs within the auto segment. Our research and development spending is focused on product development, improving existing software capabilities, and exploring new categories. 



Operating Income   





Operating income increased 13% in absolute dollars and increased 130 basis points as a percent of revenue when compared to the year-ago period. The growth in operating income on an absolute dollar basis and as a percent of revenue was the result of revenue growth, slight increase in gross margin, and leverage of operating expenses, as discussed above. 



Other Income (Expense)   







The $3.7 million currency gain recognized in the first half of 2019 was primarily due to the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against the Taiwan Dollar, partially offset by the U.S. Dollar strengthening against the Euro within the 26-weeks ended June 29, 2019. During this period, the U.S. Dollar strengthened 1.2% against the Taiwan Dollar, resulting in a gain of $7.4 million while the U.S. Dollar strengthened 0.6% against the Euro, resulting in a loss of $4.1 million. The U.S. Dollar remained relatively flat against the British Pound Sterling. The remaining net currency gain of $0.4 million was related to the timing of transactions and impacts of other currencies, each of which was individually immaterial. 





The $3.5 million currency gain recognized in the first half of 2018 was primarily due to the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against the Taiwan Dollar, partially offset by the U.S. Dollar strengthening against the Euro and British Pound Sterling within the 26-weeks ended June 30, 2018. During this period, the U.S. Dollar strengthened 2.7% against the Taiwan Dollar, resulting in a gain of $13.9 million, while the U.S. Dollar strengthened 2.6% against the Euro and 2.3% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in losses of $5.1 million and $0.1 million, respectively. The remaining net currency loss of $5.2 million was related to the timing of transactions and impacts of other currencies, each of which was individually immaterial. 



Income Tax Provision   



The Company recorded income tax expense of $78.2 million in the first half of 2019, compared to income tax expense of $70.3 million in the first half of 2018. The effective tax rate was 17.7% in the first half of 2019, compared to 18.0% in the first half of 2018. 



The Company expects to record an income tax benefit due to the revaluation of certain Switzerland deferred tax assets resulting from Swiss tax reform. However, 



the Company is unable to estimate the timing and the amount of the income tax benefit due to the dependency on the future enactment of Swiss cantonal tax rate.



Net Income   



As a result of the above, net income for the 26-week period ended June 29, 2019 was $363.8 million compared to $319.7 million for the 26-week period ended June 30, 2018, an increase of $44.1 million. 



Liquidity and Capital Resources  



As of June 29, 2019, we had approximately $2.4 billion of cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities. We primarily use cash flow from operations, and expect that future cash requirements may be used, to fund our capital expenditures, support our working capital requirements, pay dividends, and fund strategic acquisitions. We believe that our existing cash balances and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our long-term projected capital expenditures, working capital and other cash requirements. 



It is management’s goal to invest the on-hand cash in accordance with the investment policy, which has been approved by the Company’s Board of Directors. The investment policy’s primary purpose is to preserve capital, maintain an acceptable degree of liquidity, and maximize yield within the constraint of low credit risk. Garmin’s average interest rate returns on cash and investments during the first half of 2019 and 2018 were approximately 2.2% and 1.8%, respectively. The fair value of our securities varies from period to period due to changes in interest rates, in the performance of the underlying collateral and in the credit performance of the underlying issuer, among other factors. See Note 8 for additional information regarding marketable securities. 



Operating Activities   





The $162.8 million decrease in cash provided by operating activities in the first half of 2019 compared to the first half of 2018 was primarily due to the net increase in cash used in working capital of $156.6 million (which included a decrease of $42.5 million in net receipts of accounts receivable, a net increase of $75.3 million in cash paid for inventory, and a net increase of $38.8 million in cash used in other activities primarily driven by payments associated with an amendment to a license agreement) and income taxes payable of $43.8 million. These decreases were partially offset by the year over year increase in net income and other non-cash adjustments of $37.6 million. 





Investing Activities   





The $160.5 million increase in cash used in investing activities during the first half of 2019 compared to the first half of 2018 was primarily due to increased cash payments for acquisitions of $266.6 million, partially offset by decreased net purchases of marketable securities of $72.9 million and decreased cash payments for net purchases of property and equipment of $31.6 million. 



Financing Activities   





The $120.0 million increase in cash used in financing activities during the first half of 2019 compared to the first half of 2018 was primarily due to an increase in dividend payments of $112.8 million associated with the timing of dividend payments that resulted in three dividend payments in the first half of 2019 compared to two dividend payments in the first half of 2018. 



Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements   



We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements. 



Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  



General   



Garmin’s discussion and analysis of its financial condition and results of operations are based upon Garmin’s Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The presentation of these financial statements requires Garmin to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on-going basis, Garmin evaluates its estimates, including those related to bad debts, inventories, investments, intangible assets, income taxes, warranty obligations, contingencies, customer sales programs and incentives, product returns, relative standalone selling prices, and progress toward completion of performance obligations in certain contracts with customers. Garmin bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. 



For a description of the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, refer to Note 2, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 and “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” in Part II, Item 7 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2018. There were no material changes to the Company’s critical accounting policies and estimates in the 13-week and 26-week periods ended June 29, 2019, other than those discussed in Note 1, “Accounting Policies”. 





Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds 



Not applicable 



