fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
The Company ends its quarters on the Sunday closest to the end of the applicable calendar quarter, except in a 53-week fiscal year, in which case the additional week falls into the fourth quarter of that fiscal year.
The first quarter of fiscal 2018 ended on April 1, 2018 and the first quarter of fiscal 2017 ended on April 2, 2017.
In the opinion of management, the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements contain all adjustments of a normal, recurring nature, which are necessary to state fairly the financial information included therein.
The Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations for the three months ended April 1, 2018 is not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the full fiscal year.
The Company's significant accounting policies are described under Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017. increase the transparency and improve comparability by requiring entities to recognize assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for all leases, with certain exceptions.
The new standard states that a lessee will recognize a lease liability for the obligation to make lease payments and a right-of-use asset for the right to use the underlying asset for the lease term.
Leases will be classified as either finance or operating, with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition in the consolidated statements of operations.
There was no impact on the opening accumulated deficit as of January 1, 2018 due to the adoption of Topic 606.
We then select an appropriate method for measuring progress toward complete satisfaction of the performance obligation, usually costs incurred to date relative to the total expected costs to the satisfaction of that performance obligation.
In November 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-18 Restricted Cash, which requires amounts generally described as restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents be included with cash and cash equivalents when reconciling the total beginning and ending amounts for the periods shown on the statement of cash flows.
The Company adopted the provisions of ASU 2016-18 as of January 1, 2018.
These errors consisted primarily of errors in certain assumptions and calculations used in the determination of non-cash stock-based compensation primarily relating to the Employee Share Purchase Program (“ESPP”).
The fiscal 2017 results for the three months ended April 2, 2017 have been revised to reflect the quarterly impact of the adjustments described above.
During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, the Company determined that its investment in Enovix, which is accounted for as an equity method investment, had suffered an other-than temporary impairment primarily because Enovix had not achieved certain key planned product development milestones.
Consequently, the Company recognized a charge of $51.2 million during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017.
The below table presents the changes in carrying value of the equity method investments related to Deca.


item2.txt
The portfolio includes Traveo™ automotive MCUs, PSoC® programmable MCUs and general-purpose MCUs with ARM® Cortex®-M4, -M3, -M0+ and R4 CPUs, analog PMIC Power Management ICs, CapSense® capacitive-sensing controllers, TrueTouch® touchscreen, Wi-Fi®, Bluetooth®, Bluetooth Low Energy and ZigBee® solutions and the WICED® development platform, and a broad line of USB controllers, including solutions for the USB-C and USB Power Delivery (PD) standards.
Refer to Part I Item 1. Business in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 for a discussion of our strategies.
Some of these factors are discussed under Part I Item 1A in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 as well as in Part II Item 1A in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Our total revenues increased by $50.4 million, or 9.5%, to $582.2 million for the three-month period ended April 1, 2018 compared to the same period in the prior year.
Revenues recorded by MPD increased by $31.6 million, or 14.7%, in the three months ended April 1, 2018 compared to the same prior year period.


item3.txt
Our investment portfolio consists of a variety of financial instruments that expose us to interest rate risk, including, but not limited to, money market funds, certificates of deposit and corporate securities.
Our debt obligations consist of a variety of financial instruments that expose us to interest rate risk, including, but not limited to our revolving credit facility, Term Loans and Exchangeable Notes.


item4.txt
In designing and evaluating our disclosure controls and procedures, management recognized that disclosure controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the disclosure controls and procedures are met.


part2.txt
The information required by this item is included in Note 9 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements under Part I Item 1, of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and is incorporated herein by reference.


