fls.txt



item1.txt
The Company ends its quarters on the Sunday closest to the end of the applicable calendar quarter, except in a 53-week fiscal year, in which case the additional week falls into the fourth quarter of that fiscal year.
The third quarter of fiscal 2018 ended on September 30, 2018 and the third quarter of fiscal 2017 ended on October 1, 2017.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP") and include the accounts of Cypress Semiconductor Corporation and its subsidiaries.
In the opinion of management, the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements contain all adjustments of a normal, recurring nature, which are necessary to state fairly the financial information included therein.
The Company's significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
The Company continues to make progress on this plan which includes reaching out to the Company’s businesses, as well as assessing the Company’s portfolio of active leases.
The Company has also selected a lease accounting software solution to support the new reporting requirements and continues to make progress on its configuration and assessing the design of the future lease process.
While the Company has not yet completed its evaluation of the impact the new lease accounting guidance will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company expects to recognize right of use assets and lease liabilities for its operating leases, which will have a material impact on the Consolidated Balance Sheet upon adoption.
There was no impact on the opening accumulated deficit as of January 1, 2018 due to the adoption of Topic 606.
We reclassified the sales return reserve to current liabilities presented as "Price adjustment and other revenue reserves" from the allowance for accounts receivable due to the adoption of Topic 606.
Revenues are recognized when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to our customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services.
Sales of products with alternative use account for the majority of our revenue and are recognized at a point in time, the timing of such recognition remained the same under Topic 606.
We then select an appropriate method for measuring progress toward complete satisfaction of the performance obligation, usually costs incurred to date relative to the total expected costs to the satisfaction of that performance obligation.
We do not disclose the value of unsatisfied performance obligations for (i) contracts with an original expected length of one year or less and (ii) contracts for which we recognize revenue at the amount to which we have the right to invoice for services performed.
In November 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-18, "Restricted Cash," which requires amounts generally described as restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents to be included with cash and cash equivalents when reconciling the total beginning and ending amounts for the periods shown on the statement of cash flows.
The Company adopted the provisions of ASU 2016-18 as of January 1, 2018.
The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, the Company identified and recorded certain immaterial errors that originated in fiscal years ended January 1, 2017 and January 3, 2016.


item2.txt
Our total revenues increased by $68.5 million, or 11.3%, to $673.0 million for the three-month period ended September 30, 2018 compared to the same period in the prior year.
Our total revenues increased by $149.1 million, or 8.6%, to $1,879.4 million for the nine-month period ended September 30, 2018 compared to the same period in the prior year.
Revenues recorded by MCD increased by $39.8 million, or 10.7%, in the three months ended September 30, 2018 compared to the same prior year period.
The increase was primarily driven by the growth in microcontroller, automotive and wireless connectivity products.
MCD revenue increased compared to the same three-month period of the prior year due to higher sales of PSoC, automotive and wireless products.


item3.txt
Our investment portfolio consists of a variety of financial instruments that expose us to interest rate risk, including, but not limited to, money market funds, certificates of deposit, and corporate securities.


item4.txt
We maintain "disclosure controls and procedures," as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.


part2.txt
Geopolitical uncertainty, and changes to international trade agreements, tariffs, import and excise duties, taxes, or other governmental rules and regulations could adversely affect our business and results of operations.
•restrictions on repatriation of cash earned in countries outside the U.S.; For example, our sales were impacted in the second quarter of 2018 when the U.S. Department of Commerce banned U.S. companies from providing exports to ZTE, a Chinese telecoms equipment manufacturer (which ban was subsequently lifted in the third quarter of 2018) in an export controls case.
Similarly, general trade tensions between the U.S. and China have been escalating in 2018, with rounds of U.S. tariffs on Chinese goods taking effect in July, August, and September 2018 (some of which prompted retaliatory Chinese tariffs on U.S. goods) and with an additional U.S. tariff rate increase scheduled to take effect in January 2019.


