fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
The Company ends its quarters on the Sunday closest to the end of the applicable calendar quarter, except in a 53-week fiscal year, in which case the additional week falls into the fourth quarter of that fiscal year.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP") and include the accounts of Cypress Semiconductor Corporation and its subsidiaries.
In the opinion of management, the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements contain all adjustments of a normal, recurring nature, which are necessary to state fairly the financial information included therein.
On June 3, 2019, the Company entered into a definitive Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "Merger Agreement") with Infineon Technologies AG, a stock corporation (Aktiengesellschaft) organized under the laws of the Federal Republic of Germany ("Infineon") and IFX Merger Sub Inc., a Delaware corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of Infineon ("Merger Sub").
Subject to approval by Cypress's stockholders and the relevant regulatory bodies as well as other customary closing conditions, the Merger Agreement provides for Merger Sub to merge with and into the Company, with the Company continuing as the surviving corporation in the Merger and as a wholly owned subsidiary of Infineon.
When the Company receives substantially all of the economic benefits from and directs the use of specified property, plant and equipment, transactions give rise to leases.
ROU assets represent the Company's right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent the Company's obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
assets, does not apply the recognition requirements for leases of 12 months or less, and recognizes lease payments for short-term leases as expense either straight-line over the lease term or as incurred depending on whether the lease payments are fixed or variable.
The terms and conditions of the subleases are commensurate with the terms and conditions within the original operating leases.
The terms of the subleases range from one to eight years, payments are fixed within the contracts, and there are no residual value guarantees or other restrictions or covenants in the leases.
The incremental borrowing rate used by the Company was based on baseline rates and adjusted by the credit spreads commensurate with the Company’s secured borrowing rate, over a similar term.
Other significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 30, 2018.
Under this method, the cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings is recognized on the date of adoption (December 31, 2018).
The Company adopted ASC Topic 842, as of December 31, 2018 and applied the alternative modified retrospective transition method requiring application of the new guidance to all leases existing at, or entered into on or after, the date of adoption, i.e. December 31, 2018.
On June 3, 2019, Infineon, Merger Sub and the Company entered into the Merger Agreement, which provides for Merger Sub, upon the closing of the transaction, to merge with and into the Company (the "Merger"), with the Company continuing as the surviving corporation in the Merger and as a wholly owned subsidiary of Infineon.


item2.txt
The portfolio includes Wi-Fi® and Bluetooth® and Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE), and Wi-Fi plus Bluetooth combo solutions; Traveo™ automotive MCUs, PSoC® programmable MCUs and general-purpose MCUs; CapSense® capacitive-sensing controllers and automotive TrueTouch® touchscreen solutions; a broad line of USB controllers, including solutions for the USB-C and USB Power Delivery standards; and analog PMIC Power Management ICs.
Our total revenue decreased by $91.9 million, or 14.7%, to $532.2 million in the three months ended June 30, 2019 compared to the same period in the prior year.
Excluding the impact of the NAND flash business divestiture, our total revenues decreased by $42.4 million, or 7.4%, to $532.2 million for the three months ended June 30, 2019 compared to the same period in the prior year.
Our total revenues decreased by $135.1 million, or 11.2%, to $1,071.2 million in the six months ended June 30, 2019 compared to the same period in the prior year.
The decrease was attributable in part to the divestiture of our NAND flash business, which was completed on April 1, 2019.


item3.txt
Our investment portfolio consists of a variety of financial instruments that expose us to interest rate risk, including, but not limited to, money market funds, and certificates of deposit.


item4.txt



part2.txt
The information required by this item is included in Note 13 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Part I Item 1, of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and is incorporated herein by reference.
In that case, lengthy negotiations may ensue among these regulatory or governmental entities, Infineon and us, which could delay the closing (and any receipt of Merger consideration) and increase the risk that the merger might not be completed.
•During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, we determined that our investment in Deca Technologies Inc. ("Deca") was other-than temporarily impaired due to significant delays in Deca's commercialization and achievement of scalable production of certain key products, and consequently we recognized an impairment charge of $41.5 million to write down the carrying value of our investment in Deca to $65.1 million (the estimated fair value of our investment as of the end of fiscal 2018).


