These condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017 (the “2017 Annual Report”).
Under this transition method, the Company’s results in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income for the three months ended March 31, 2018 are presented under Topic 606, while the comparative results for the three months ended March 31, 2017 were not retrospectively adjusted as such results were recognized in accordance with the revenue recognition policy discussed under Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in Note 1 of the Company’s 2017 Annual Report.
The adoption of Topic 606 did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements as of the adoption date and as of and for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
The Company has begun evaluating ASU 2016‑02, including the review of the necessary changes to our existing processes and controls and the implementation of a new system that will facilitate the adoption of this new standard, in order to determine its impact on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
The Company is currently evaluating ASU 2018-02, and we currently anticipate that ASU 2018-02 will not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
Effective January 1, 2018, the Company adopted Topic 606 using the modified retrospective transition method, resulting in accounting policy changes surrounding revenue recognition which replace certain related policies discussed under Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates (in Item 7) and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (in Note 1) of the Company’s 2017 Annual Report.
The adoption of Topic 606 did not have a material impact on the Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements.
The following is a summary of the Company’s revenue recognition and related accounting policies and disclosures resulting from the adoption of Topic 606.
Less than 5% of our net sales are recognized over time, as the associated contracts relate to the sale of goods with no alternative use as they are only sold to a single customer and whose underlying contract terms provide the Company with an enforceable right to payment, including a reasonable profit margin, for performance completed to date, in the event of customer termination.
For the contracts recognized over time, we typically record revenue using the input method, based on the materials and labor costs incurred to date relative to the contract’s total estimated costs.
The Company accounts for shipping and handling activities related to contracts with customers as a cost to fulfill our promise to transfer control of the related product, including any such costs incurred after the customer has obtained control of the goods.
The Company records contract assets or contract liabilities depending on the timing of revenue recognition, billings and cash collections on a contract-by-contract basis.
As the Company’s performance obligations are typically less than one year, these amounts are generally recorded as current in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets within Other current assets or Other accrued expenses as of March 31, 2018.
Contract assets and contract liabilities recorded in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets were not significant both at the date of adoption and as of March 31, 2018.
Capitalized contract costs to obtain a contract or to fulfill a contract that are not accounted for under other existing accounting standards are recorded as either other current or long-term assets on the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, depending on the timing of when the Company expects to recognize the expense, and are generally amortized consistent with the timing of when transfer of control of the related goods occurs.
Such capitalized contract costs were not significant both at the date of adoption and as of March 31, 2018, and the related amortization expense was not significant for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those for the Company as a whole and are described in Note 1 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in the Company’s 2017 Annual Report.