The Company is subject to legal proceedings, claims and litigation arising in the ordinary course of its business.
Additionally, we cannot be certain or give any assurance that any actions taken to reduce known risks and uncertainties will be effective.
We derive significant revenue from contracts or subcontracts funded by United States government agencies.
A significant reduction in the purchase of our products by these agencies or contractors for these agencies would have a material adverse effect on our business.
For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, approximately 29 percent, 26 percent and 25 percent, respectively, of our revenues were derived directly or indirectly from sales to the United States government and its agencies.
The funding of contracts awarded to us depends on the overall United States government budget and appropriations process, which is beyond our control.
A failure to pass budget appropriations, adopt continuing funding resolutions or other budgetary decisions limiting or delaying federal government spending, could reduce government spending on our products and services and have a material adverse effect on our business and our operating results.
Substantial uncertainty exists in the spending levels and priorities of the United States government, particularly with respect to military expenditures.
Continued and further reductions in military spending could have a material adverse effect on our results from operations.
Our expense levels are based, in part, on our expectations regarding future sales and these expenses are largely fixed in the short term.
Some expenses, such as those related to research and development activities, would likely be maintained in the event of a sales downturn in order to maintain and enhance our long-term competitiveness.
We maintain inventories of finished goods, components and raw materials at levels we believe are necessary to meet anticipated sales.
Accordingly, we may not be able to reduce our costs in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected shortfall between forecasted and actual sales.
Any significant shortfall of sales may result in us carrying higher levels of inventories of finished goods, components and raw materials thereby increasing our risk of inventory obsolescence and corresponding inventory write-downs and write-offs.
Our intangible assets, including goodwill, represent a significant portion of our total assets.
Most of these intangibles are the result of acquisitions in which the purchase price exceeded the value of the tangible assets acquired.
We amortize certain of these intangibles over their anticipated useful life and review goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually or more frequently if warranted by events.
To date we have not experienced any impairment of our intangible assets, but there can be no assurance that we will not experience such impairment in the future.
We are subject to various legal proceedings and claims that have arisen out of the ordinary conduct of our business and are not yet resolved, and additional claims may arise in the future.
Results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty.
From time to time, we are involved in lawsuits concerning intellectual property, torts, contracts, shareholder litigation, administrative and regulatory proceedings and other matters, as well as governmental inquiries and investigations, the outcomes of which may be significant to our results of operations and may limit our ability to engage in our business activities.
In recognition of these considerations, we have and may in the future enter into material settlements to avoid ongoing costs and efforts in defending or pursuing a matter.
While we have insurance related to our business operations, it may not apply to or fully cover liabilities we incur as a result of these lawsuits.
We record accruals for liabilities where we believe a loss to be probable and reasonably estimable.
However, our actual costs may differ materially from these estimates.
•instability in economic or political conditions, inflation, recession, actual or anticipated military or political conflicts, and potential impact due to the upcoming exit of the United Kingdom (the "U.K.") from the European Union (the "EU"), colloquially referred to as "Brexit".
Some of these factors recently have had an adverse impact on our sales and operations and increased our cost of doing business and subjected the business to additional rules, policies and procedures that impacted the operation of the Company.
Bribery Act, and other local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials, data privacy requirements, tax laws, and accounting, internal control and disclosure requirements.
For example, on April 8, 2015, the Company and the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) entered into an agreement through entry of an Order Instituting Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order (the “SEC Order”).
The SEC Order settled charges under the FCPA with respect to incidents of improper travel and gifts involving FLIR’s Middle East operation.
Pursuant to the SEC Order, we are obligated to “cease and desist” from committing any future violations of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Violations of these laws and regulations could result in civil and criminal fines, penalties and sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more countries, and could also materially affect our reputation, business and results of operations.
In certain foreign jurisdictions, there is a higher risk of fraud or corruption and greater difficulty in maintaining effective internal controls and compliance programs.
Further, although we have implemented and continue to implement policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with applicable laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate our policies or applicable laws and regulations.
As part of the Consent Agreement, DDTC acknowledged that we voluntarily disclosed certain of the alleged Arms Export Control Act and ITAR violations (which were resolved pursuant to the Consent Agreement), cooperated in DDTC’s review, and instituted a number of compliance program improvements.
In addition, our international contracts may include industrial cooperation agreements requiring specific in-country purchases, investments, manufacturing agreements or other financial obligations, known as offset obligations, and may provide for penalties if we fail to meet such requirements.
Brexit has created uncertainty about the future relationship between the U.K. and the EU.
A draft withdrawal agreement was published in November 2018 but was rejected by the British Parliament and we are still uncertain about the final agreements they will reach on topics such as financial laws and regulations, tax and free trade agreements, immigration laws, and employment laws.
However, given the multiple Brexit deadline extensions to date, it is unclear if and when withdrawal will take place.
We have significant operations and a substantial workforce in Europe, a portion of which reside in the U.K. and therefore enjoy certain benefits based on the U.K.’s membership in the EU.
The lack of clarity about Brexit and the future U.K. laws and regulations creates uncertainty for us, as the outcome of these negotiations may affect our business and operations.
Additionally, there also is a risk that other countries may decide to leave the EU.
Additionally, any development that has the effect of devaluing the European euro or British pound sterling could meaningfully reduce the value of our assets and reduce the usefulness of liquidity alternatives denominated in that currency, such as our multicurrency credit facility.
Changes in the value of foreign currencies in which our sales or costs incurred are denominated have in the past caused, and could in the future cause, fluctuations in our operating results.
We seek to reduce our exposure to currency fluctuations by denominating, where possible, our international sales in United States dollars, by balancing expenses and revenues in various currencies and by undertaking limited hedging of forecasted currency exposures.
With respect to international sales denominated in United States dollars, a decrease in the value of foreign currencies relative to the United States dollar could make our products less price competitive.
Export licenses and other authorizations may be required from United States government agencies under the ITAR, the EAR, the Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”) Regulations, the Trading with the Enemy Act of 1917, the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (“IEEPA”), the Arms Export Control Act of 1976 (“AECA”), and other similar laws and regulations for the sale, use and export of many of our products and related data and services.
The United States Government’s export reform effort resulted in the transition of various Company products from the USML to the CCL, shifting the licensing requirements and restrictions for products regulated by the Department of Commerce under the EAR.
This transition has increased the licensing requirements and restrictions on some products and reduced the requirements and restrictions on others.
We can give no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining the necessary licenses from the United States Department of State or Department of Commerce required to conduct our business as presently or historically conducted.
Although we have taken actions and continue to take additional actions necessary to implement policies and procedures to promote an improved compliance culture and programs, there is no guarantee that our actions will be effective or that government agencies will not view our actions and programs with heightened scrutiny, including as a result of events outside of our control.
suspensions or terminations of our existing licenses, or delays in receiving new licenses resulting from requests for follow-up information, due diligence requests or additional limitations on our sale to third parties.
We can give no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining necessary licenses required to facilitate our international business.
For example, there is uncertainty around the implementation of Brexit and its impact on us and global economic conditions generally.
•the timing of orders and shipments within a given fiscal quarter.
•the tendency of commercial enterprises to utilize fully annual capital budgets prior to expiration.
Competition in the diverse markets for our products is intense.
The speed with which companies can identify new applications for thermal imaging, develop products to meet those needs and supply commercial quantities at low prices to the market are important competitive factors.
We believe the principal competitive factors in our markets are product performance, price, customer service and training, product reputation, and effective marketing and sales efforts.
Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, research and development, and marketing resources than we do.
All of these factors, as well as the potential for increased competition from new market entrants, require us to continue to invest in, and focus on, research and development and new product innovation.
We include complex system designs and components in our products that may contain errors or defects, particularly when we incorporate new technology into our products or release new versions.
Such an event could result in significant expenses including expenses arising from product liability and warranty claims.
As we expand our presence into new markets, we may face increased exposure to product liability claims.
We maintain product liability insurance but cannot be certain that it will be sufficient or will continue to be available on acceptable terms.
Many contracts are subject to cancellation or suspension on short notice at the discretion of the customer, and the contracts in our backlog are subject to changes in the scope of services to be provided as well as adjustments to the costs relating to the contract.
We have historically experienced variances in the components of backlog related to delivery delays or cancellations resulting from customer-specific circumstances, external market factors and economic factors beyond our control, and we may experience more delays or cancellations in the future.
These tariffs currently affect some of the components of our products we import from China, and we may raise our prices on those products due to the tariffs or share the cost of such tariffs with our customers, which could harm our operating performance or cause our customers to seek alternative suppliers.
It is possible that further tariffs may be imposed on our other imports, or that our business will be impacted by retaliatory trade measures taken by China or other countries in response to existing or future tariffs, causing us to raise prices or make changes to our operations, any of which could materially harm our revenue or operating results.
In addition, we may seek to shift some of our manufacturing supply chain to other countries, which could result in disruption to our operations.
Many of our proprietary rights are held in confidence as trade secrets and are not covered by patents, making them more difficult to protect.
Although we currently hold worldwide patents covering certain aspects of our technologies and products, and we are actively pursuing additional patents, we cannot be certain that we will obtain additional patents or trademarks on our technology, products and trade names.
Litigation over patents and other intellectual property is common in our industry.
Our ability to develop new products and technologies that anticipate changing customer requirements, reduce costs and otherwise retain or enhance our competitive position in existing and new markets will be an important factor in our future results from operations.
We will continue to make substantial capital expenditures and incur significant research and development costs to improve our manufacturing capability, reduce costs, and develop and introduce new products and enhancements.
condition and results of operations would be adversely affected.
In addition, we cannot be certain that our new products and technologies will be successful or that customers will accept any of our new products.
We face certain security threats and technology disruptions, including threats to our information technology infrastructure, attempts to gain access to our or our customers’ proprietary or classified information, threats to the physical security of our facilities and employees, threats of terrorism events, and failures of our technology tools and systems.
We are subject to laws and rules issued by various agencies concerning safeguarding and maintaining infrastructure and physical security and information confidentiality.
Our information technology networks and related systems are critical to the operation of our business and essential to our ability to successfully perform day-to-day operations.
We are also involved with information technology systems for certain customers and other third parties, for which we face similar security threats as for our own.
Such threats have increased in frequency, scope and potential impact in recent years.
Further, a variety of technological tools and systems, including both company-owned information technology and technological services provided by outside parties, support our critical functions.
These technologies, as well as our products, are subject to failure and the user’s inability to have such technologies properly supported, updated, expanded or integrated into other technologies and may contain open source and third party software which may unbeknownst to us contain defects or viruses that pose unintended risks to our customers.
These risks if not effectively mitigated or controlled could materially harm our business or reputation.
While we believe that we have implemented appropriate measures, controls, and risk transfer mechanisms, there can be no assurance that such actions will be sufficient to prevent disruptions to critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential information, corruption of data, or financial loss.
These security measures are subject to third-party security breaches, employee error, malfeasance, faulty password management or other irregularities.
For example, third parties may attempt to induce by fraud employees or customers into disclosing user names, passwords or other sensitive information, which may in turn be used to access our information technology systems.
To the extent we were to experience a breach of our systems and were unable to protect sensitive data, such a breach could materially damage business partner and customer relationships, and curtail or otherwise impact the use of our information technology systems.
Our future success depends in part on the efforts and continued services of our key executives and our ability to attract and retain qualified technical, sales and other personnel.
Significant competition exists for such personnel and we cannot assure the retention of our key executives, technical and sales personnel or our ability to attract, integrate and retain other such personnel that may be required in the future.
We cannot assure that employees will not leave and subsequently compete against us.
As we have grown, the size and scope of our worldwide operations have also increased substantially.
We currently design, manufacture and market numerous product lines in locations worldwide.
Our inability to continue to manufacture our products at one or more of our facilities as a result of, for example, a prolonged power outage, earthquake, fire or other natural disaster, or labor or political unrest, could prevent us from supplying products to our customers and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
We have made twelve acquisitions of various sizes in the past five years.
The integration of businesses, personnel, product lines and technologies can be difficult, time consuming and subject to significant risks.
For example, we could lose key personnel from companies that we acquire, incur unanticipated costs, lose major sources of revenue, fail to integrate critical technologies, suffer business disruptions, fail to capture anticipated synergies, fail to establish satisfactory internal controls, or incur unanticipated liabilities.
Any of these difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, increase our expenses and decrease our revenue.
We frequently evaluate strategic opportunities available to us and it is likely that we will make additional acquisitions in the future.
Such acquisitions may vary in size and complexity.
Any future acquisitions are subject to the risks described above.
Furthermore, we might assume or incur additional debt or issue additional equity securities to pay for future acquisitions.
Additional debt may negatively impact our results and increase our financial risk, and the issuance of any additional equity securities could dilute our then existing shareholders’ ownership.
We have indebtedness as a result of the issuance of our 3.125 percent senior unsecured notes (the “Notes”) and borrowings against our unsecured credit facility, and we are subject to certain restrictive covenants under our unsecured credit facility and the indenture governing the Notes, and changes in the rate at which we can obtain indebtedness, any of which may limit our operational and financial flexibility
Our ability to meet our debt service obligations and comply with the financial covenants under our credit facility will be dependent upon our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control.
Our inability to meet our debt service obligations or comply with the required covenants could result in a default under the credit facility or indenture.
LIBOR has been the subject of recent national, international and other regulatory guidance and proposals for reform and it is expected that a number of banks currently reporting information used to set LIBOR will stop doing so after 2021.
Such an occurrence could cause LIBOR to stop publication or cause LIBOR to no longer be representative of the underlying market.
While we believe our exposure to market risk associated with the expected discontinuation of LIBOR is limited because our Notes carry a fixed-rate coupon and our unsecured credit facility agreement includes provisions for a successor rate, the consequences of these developments cannot be entirely predicted.
If LIBOR is no longer available or if our lenders have increased costs due to changes in LIBOR, it could adversely impact our interest expense, results of operations and cash flows.
In addition, prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing could increase our interest expense.
A refinancing of our indebtedness, including the Notes, could also require us to comply with more onerous covenants and further restrict our business operations.
Due to economic and political conditions, tax rates in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change.
•the repatriation of earnings from outside the United States for which we have not previously provided for United States taxes.
New tax legislation, commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Act”), was enacted on December 22, 2017.
The Tax Act, among other things, (i) permanently reduces the U.S. corporate income tax rate to 21 percent beginning in 2018, (ii) provides for a five year period of 100 percent bonus depreciation followed by a phase-down of the bonus depreciation percentage, and (iii) provides for more general changes to the taxation of corporations, including changes to the deductibility of interest expense, the adoption of a modified territorial tax system, assessing a repatriation tax or “toll-charge” on undistributed earnings and profits of U.S.-owned foreign corporations, and introducing certain anti-base erosion provisions.
The long-term impact of the Tax Act on the general economy cannot be reliably predicted at this time and continues to require rule-making and interpretation in a number of areas.
Further, compliance with the Tax Act and the accounting for certain provisions require accumulation of information not previously required or regularly produced.
As additional interpretative guidance is issued by the applicable authorities, we will continue our analysis on the application of the Tax Act and may need to revise our current estimates in future periods.
Other companies may seek to acquire or merge with us.
Some provisions of our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws, including our ability to issue preferred stock without further action by our shareholders, as well as provisions of the State of Oregon law, may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a shareholder may consider favorable.
All share repurchases are subject to applicable securities law, and are at times and in amounts as management deems appropriate.
These repurchases were through open market transactions under the authorization by our Board of Directors on February 7, 2019 to repurchase of up to 15.0 million shares of our outstanding common stock.
