fls.txt
Statements which are not historical in nature, including the words “anticipate,” “estimate,” “could,” “should,” “may,” “plan,” “seek,” “expect,” “believe,” “intend,” “target,” “will,” “project,” “focused,” “outlook,” and variations of these words and negatives thereof and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements, including statements regarding, among others, (i) economic conditions, (ii) business and acquisition strategies, (iii) potential acquisitions and/or joint ventures and investments in unconsolidated entities, (iv) financing plans, and (v) industry, demographic and other trends affecting our financial condition or results of operations.


item1.txt
The total notional value of our foreign currency exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges at March 31, 2018 was $34,200, and such contracts have varying terms expiring through December 2018.
Available-for-sale securities – the investments are exchange-traded equity securities.
During the quarters ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, we granted 91,609 and 100,399 shares of non-vested restricted stock, respectively.
Purchases from Carrier and its affiliates comprised 62% of all inventory purchases made during both the quarters ended March 31, 2018 and 2017.
See Note 7.
Information with respect to this item may be found in Note 10 to our condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q under the caption “Litigation, Claims and Assessments,” which information is incorporated by reference in this Item 1 of Part II of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Revenue for shipping and handling charges is recognized when products are delivered to or picked up by the customer.
Fair values for these investments are based on closing stock prices from active markets and are therefore classified within Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy.
In January 2017, the FASB issued guidance to simplify the subsequent measurement of goodwill by eliminating Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test.
The adoption of this standard and its related amendments (collectively, the “New Revenue Standard”) on January 1, 2018 did not result in the recognition of a cumulative adjustment to opening retained earnings under the modified retrospective approach, nor did it have a significant impact on our consolidated net income, balance sheet or cash flow.
The maximum period for which we hedge our cash flow using these instruments is 12 months.
A member of our Board of Directors is the Senior Chairman of Greenberg Traurig, P.A., which serves as our principal outside counsel for compliance and acquisition-related legal services.
Under the new guidance, modification accounting is required only if the fair value, the vesting conditions or the classification of the award (as equity or liability) changes as a result of the change in terms or conditions.
Management reviews its assumptions with its independent third-party actuaries to evaluate whether the self-insurance reserves are adequate.
During the quarter ended March 31, 2018, we paid this firm $4 for services performed, and $0 was payable at March 31, 2018.
Under this updated standard, an entity should recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value, but the loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.


item2.txt
Working capital increased to $994.0 million at March 31, 2018 from $920.9 million at December 31, 2017, reflecting higher levels of inventories, primarily due to the seasonality of our business.
Other significant selling, general and administrative expenses relate to the operation of warehouse facilities, including a fleet of trucks and forklifts, and facility rent, which are payable mostly under non-cancelable operating leases.
   •   the continued viability of our business strategy.
We believe that our operating cash flows, cash on hand, and funds available for borrowing under our revolving credit agreement are sufficient to meet our liquidity needs in the foreseeable future.
Effective February 5, 2018, we decreased the borrowing capacity under this credit agreement from $600.0 million to $300.0 million.
Net interest expense for the first quarter of 2018 decreased $0.7 million, or 55%, primarily as a result of a decrease in average outstanding borrowings, partially offset by a higher effective interest rate for the 2018 period, in each case under our revolving credit facility, as compared to the same period in 2017.
Collectively, the Northeast locations and the Mexico operations are referred to as Carrier Enterprise II.
Other income of $1.6 million for the first quarter of 2018 represents our approximate 35% share of the net income of RSI.
On November 29, 2016, we purchased an additional 10% ownership interest in Carrier Enterprise II, and, on February 13, 2017, we again purchased an additional 10% ownership interest in Carrier Enterprise II, which together increased our controlling interest to 80%.
We used borrowings under our revolving credit agreement to finance this acquisition.
We believe that our operating cash flows, cash on hand, and funds available for borrowing under our revolving credit agreement are sufficient to meet our liquidity needs in the foreseeable future.
The decrease was primarily due to the reduction of the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% effective January 1, 2018 as a result of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017.


item4.txt



part2.txt



