fls.txt
Statements which are not historical in nature, including the words “anticipate,” “estimate,” “could,” “should,” “may,” “plan,” “seek,” “expect,” “believe,” “intend,” “target,” “will,” “project,” “focused,” “outlook,” “goal,” “designed,” and variations of these words and negatives thereof and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements, including statements regarding, among others, (i) economic conditions, (ii) business and acquisition strategies, (iii) potential acquisitions and/or joint ventures and investments in unconsolidated entities, (iv) financing plans, and (v) industry, demographic and other trends affecting our financial condition or results of operations.


item1.txt
The total notional value of our foreign currency exchange contracts not designated as hedging instruments at March 31, 2019 was $9,060, and such contracts have varying terms expiring through July 2019.
Equity securities – these investments are exchange-traded equity securities.
The total notional value of our foreign currency exchange contracts not designated as hedging instruments at March 31, 2019 was $9,060, and such contracts have varying terms expiring through July 2019.
These operating leases are expected to commence in 2019 with lease terms of 5-11 years.
At March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, $137,500 and $135,200, respectively, were outstanding under the revolving credit agreement.
This acquisition increased Carrier Enterprise I’s ownership interest in RSI to 38.1%.
Operating lease ROU assets also include any lease pre-payments made and exclude lease incentives.
This acquisition increased Carrier Enterprise I’s ownership interest in RSI to 38.1%.
Fair value is based on observable market inputs, such as forward rates in active markets; therefore, we classify these derivatives within Level 2 of the valuation hierarchy.
Lease payments for short-term leases, which are 12 months or less without a purchase option that is likely to be exercised, are recognized as lease cost on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
In July 2018, the FASB issued updated guidance that provides an additional transition method of adoption that allows entities to initially apply the standard at the adoption date and recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings.
Operating lease ROU assets also include any lease pre-payments made and exclude lease incentives.
As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement dates of the respective leases in determining the present value of the applicable lease payments.


item2.txt
The following narratives reflect our acquisition of Alert Labs, Inc. in August 2018, our acquisition of an HVAC distributor in November 2018 and the purchase of an additional 1.4% ownership interest in Russell Sigler, Inc. (“RSI”) in June 2018.
the continued viability of our business strategy.
Gross profit for the first quarter of 2019 increased $2.9 million, or 1%, primarily as a result of increased revenues.
Carrier Enterprise I is a party to a shareholders agreement (the “Shareholders Agreement”) with RSI and its shareholders.
Effective June 29, 2018, Carrier Enterprise I acquired an additional 1.4% ownership interest in RSI, which increased Carrier Enterprise I’s ownership interest in RSI to 36.3%.
Gross profit for the first quarter of 2019 increased $2.9 million, or 1%, primarily as a result of increased revenues.
The credit agreement matures on December 5, 2023.
Pursuant to the Shareholders Agreement, RSI’s shareholders have the right to sell, and Carrier Enterprise I has the obligation to purchase, their respective shares of RSI for a purchase price determined based on either book value or a multiple of EBIT, the latter of which Carrier Enterprise I used to calculate the price paid for its investment in RSI.
Furthermore, results of operations can be impacted favorably or unfavorably based on weather patterns, primarily during the Summer and Winter selling seasons.
The individual items contributing to cash flow changes for the periods presented are detailed in the condensed consolidated unaudited statements of cash flows contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
In the following narratives, computations and other information referring to “same-store basis” exclude the effects of locations closed, acquired, or locations opened, unless they are within close geographical proximity to existing locations, during the immediately preceding 12 months.
As of March 31, 2019, we had $77.3 million of cash and cash equivalents, of which $67.2 million was held by foreign subsidiaries.
We believe that our operating cash flows, cash on hand, and funds available for borrowing under our revolving credit agreement will be sufficient to purchase any additional ownership interests in RSI.


item4.txt



part2.txt
filed herewith.


