Certain statements in this section and other parts of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the federal securities laws and are entitled to the safe-harbor provisions of the PSLRA.Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (“PSLRA”).
"Risk Factors" of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 30, 2017.
Founded in 1927, Littelfuse is a global manufacturer of leading technologies in circuit protection, power control and sensing.
The Company has products in automotive and commercial vehicles, industrial applications, data and telecommunications, medical devices, consumer electronics and appliances.
The increase in net income reflects operating income increases across the Electronics segment, partially offset by lower operating income in the Automotive segment.
On July 6, 2018, the Trump administration imposed Section 301 tariffs on certain products (known as List1) that are imported into the United States where the country of origin is China.
Additionally, on August 23, 2018, List 2 was put into effect which imposed an additional 25% tariff to products on the list items.
As a result of this incoming standard, there has been a slow down in the European passenger car market as manufacturers need to validate and test new cars under the new regulatory standards.
In addition, for the three months ended September 29, 2018, there were charges of $1.0 million ($3.6 million year-to-date) of severance, other restructuring charges and acquisition-related charges, of which $1.1 million of charges associated with the exit of the Custom business in the second quarter.
These charges were primarily attributable to acquisition-related and integration costs related to legal, accounting and other expenses associated with completed or contemplated acquisitions of approximately $4.8 million ($6.6 million year-to-date), including $1.6 million ($1.6 million year-to-date) of purchase accounting inventory charges related to the Company’s 2017 acquisition of U.S. Sensor and $1.5 million ($1.5 million year-to-date) of charges related to restructuring and production transfers in our Asia operations.
The increase in gross profit reflects the IXYS acquisition and volume growth and expense leverage across all segments.
Income before income taxes was $68.2 million, or 15.5% of net sales, for the third quarter of 2018 compared to $55.5 million, or 17.5% of net sales, for the third quarter of 2017.
In addition to the factors impacting comparative results for operating income discussed above income before income taxes was favorably impacted by increases in foreign exchange gains of $4.9 million and increases in other income of $1.4 million primarily due to unrealized investment gains in our equity investments partially offset by higher interest expense of $7.1 million mainly resulting from increased borrowings for the IXYS acquisition.
Income tax expense was $14.7 million, or an effective tax rate of 21.5%, for the third quarter of 2018 compared to $12.7 million, or an effective tax rate of 22.9%, for the third quarter of 2017.
Net sales in the Americas increased $41.4 million, or 35.8%, in the third quarter of 2018 compared to the third quarter of 2017 driven by incremental net sales related to the IXYS acquisitions of $25.0 million, continued strong volumes in the passives, electronic sensors, auto sensors, commercial vehicles, and relays partially offset by lower volumes in passenger car and exit from the Custom business.
The Company has historically supported its liquidity needs through cash flows from operations.
Management expects that the Company’s (i) current level of cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, (ii) current and forecasted cash flows from operations, (iii) availability under existing funding arrangements, and (iv) access to capital in the capital markets will provide sufficient funds to support the Company’s operations, capital expenditures, investments, and debt obligations on both a short-term and long-term basis.
The Credit Agreement consisted of an unsecured revolving credit facility (“Revolving Credit Facility”) of $575.0 million and an unsecured term loan credit facility (“Term Loan”) of up to $125.0 million.In connection with the preparation of this report, management, under the supervision and with the participation of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of September 29, 2018.