fls.txt
Certain statements in this section and other parts of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the federal securities laws and are entitled to the safe-harbor provisions of the PSLRA.
These risks, uncertainties and other factors include, but are not limited to, risks relating to product demand and market acceptance; economic conditions; the impact of competitive products and pricing; product quality problems or product recalls; capacity and supply difficulties or constraints; coal mining exposures reserves; failure of an indemnification for environmental liability; exchange rate fluctuations; commodity price fluctuations; the effect of the Company's accounting policies; labor disputes; restructuring costs in excess of expectations; pension plan asset returns less than assumed; uncertainties related to political or regulatory changes; the risk that expected benefits, synergies and growth prospects of the Company’s completed acquisition of IXYS Corporation (“IXYS”) may not be achieved in a timely manner, or at all; the risk that IXYS’ business may not be successfully integrated with the Company’s; the risk that the Company and IXYS will be unable to retain and hire key personnel; and the risk that disruption from the acquisition may adversely affect the Company’s or IXYS’ business and their respective relationships with customers, suppliers or employees; and other risks which may be detailed in the Company's other Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including those set forth under Item 1A.


item2.txt
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (“PSLRA”).
Certain statements in this section and other parts of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the federal securities laws and are entitled to the safe-harbor provisions of the PSLRA.
"Risk Factors" of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 30, 2017.
Founded in 1927, Littelfuse is a global leader in circuit protection products with advancing platforms in power control and sensor technologies, serving customers in the electronics, automotive, and industrial markets.
The increase was primarily driven by the acquisition of IXYS along with higher volume across all three segments.
Net sales in the Industrial segment increased $3.4 million or 14.4% due to volume growth in the power fuse and relay businesses.
The Company recognized net income of $36.0 million, or $1.45 per diluted share, in the first quarter of 2018 compared to net income of $38.9 million, or $1.69 per diluted share in the first quarter of 2017.
IXYS has a broad customer base, serving more than 3,500 customers through its direct salesforce and global distribution partners.
The following table summarizes the Company’s consolidated results of operations for the periods presented.
In addition, there were $0.8 million of restructuring charges related to certain operations in the Electronics segment.
Income before income taxes was $44.6 million, or 10.7% of net sales, for the first quarter of 2018 compared to $47.4 million, or 16.6% of net sales, for the first quarter of 2017.
In addition to the factors impacting comparative results for operating income, income before income taxes was impacted by favorable comparative foreign exchange gains that were partially offset by increased interest expense associated with the increased borrowings for the IXYS acquisition.
Income tax expense was $8.6 million, or an effective tax rate of 19.3%, for the first quarter of 2018 compared to $8.5 million, or an effective tax rate of 18.0%, for the first quarter of 2017.
The Company has historically supported its liquidity needs through cash flows from operations.
Management expects that the Company’s (i) current level of cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, (ii) current and forecasted cash flows from operations, (iii) availability under existing funding arrangements, and (iv) access to capital in the capital markets will provide sufficient funds to support the Company’s operations, capital expenditures, investments, and debt obligations on both a short-term and long-term basis.
The new credit agreement consists of an unsecured revolving credit facility of $575.0 million and an unsecured term loan credit facility of up to $125.0 million.
In addition, the Company has the ability, from time to time, to increase the size of the revolving credit facility and the term loan facility by up to an additional $150.0 million, in the aggregate, in each case in minimum increments of $25.0 million, subject to certain conditions and the agreement of participating lenders.
Term Loans may be made in up to two advances.
The first advance of $125.0 million occurred on October 13, 2017 and the second advance of $75.0 million occurred on January 16, 2018.
Outstanding borrowings under the Credit Agreement bear interest, at the Company’s option, at either LIBOR, fixed for interest periods of one, two, three or six-month periods, plus 1.00% to 2.00%, or at the bank’s Base Rate, as defined, plus 0.00% to 1.00%, based upon the Company’s Consolidated Leverage Ratio, as defined.
The Company is also required to pay commitment fees on unused portions of the credit agreement ranging from 0.15% to 0.25%, based on the Consolidated Leverage Ratio, as defined.
The credit agreement includes representations, covenants and events of default that are customary for financing transactions of this nature.
As of March 31, 2018, the Company had $0.1 million outstanding in letters of credit and had available $696.9 million of borrowing capacity under the Revolving Credit Facility.
On December 8, 2016, the Company entered into a Note Purchase Agreement, pursuant to which the Company issued and sold €212 million aggregate principal amount of senior notes in two series.
Interest on the Euro Senior Notes is payable semiannually on June 8 and December 8, commencing June 8, 2017.
On January 16, 2018, $50 million aggregate principal amount of 3.48% Senior Notes, Series A, due February 15, 2025 (“U.S.


item3.txt



item4.txt
In connection with the preparation of this report, management, under the supervision and with the participation of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of March 31, 2018.
The Company acquired IXYS Corporation on January 17, 2018.


part2.txt



