Certain statements in this section and other parts of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the federal securities laws and are entitled to the safe-harbor provisions of the PSLRA.Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (“PSLRA”).
Certain statements in this section and other parts of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the federal securities laws and are entitled to the safe-harbor provisions of the PSLRA.
"Risk Factors" of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 30, 2017.
Founded in 1927, Littelfuse is a global leader in circuit protection products with advancing platforms in power control and sensor technologies, serving customers in the electronics, automotive, and industrial markets.
The increase was primarily driven by the acquisition of IXYS, which added $100.2 million in sales along with higher volume across all three segments.
Net sales for the Automotive segment increased $10.7 million, or 9.2% due to volume growth across all the segment’s business units.
Additionally, the per share results reflect an increase in the weighted average diluted shares outstanding of 2.1 million resulting from the shares issued in conjunction with the acquisition of IXYS.
The increase in net cash provided by operating activities reflected higher earnings and favorable working capital management that more than offset higher payments related to acquisition and integration costs and higher cash taxes.
The exit of the Custom business resulted in total impairment charges of $1.1 million for the tradename and real property.
The exit of the Radio Pulse business resulted in restructuring charges of $2.1 million, of which $1.4 million was for severance charges and $0.7 million of other restructuring charges.
The following table summarizes the Company’s consolidated results of operations for the periods presented.
The charges related to the IXYS acquisition total $24.4 million ($63.2 million year-to-date) and include $19.0 million ($36.9 million year-to-date) of purchase accounting inventory charges, $2.3 million ($14.1 million year-to-date) in acquisition-related and integration costs primarily related to legal, accounting and other expenses associated with the acquisition of IXYS, $3.1 million ($5.6 million year-to-date) in backlog amortization costs, stock compensation expense recognized immediately upon close for converted IXYS options related to prior services periods of $4.5 million year-to-date and other charges of $2.1 million year-to-date.
In addition, there were $3.2 million ($3.9 million year-to-date) of severance and other restructuring charges and $1.1 million of impairment charges ($1.1 million year-to-date) associated with the exit of the Radio Pulse and Custom businesses, respectively.
These were primarily attributable to acquisition-related costs primarily related to legal and integration costs associated with the Company’s acquisitions in 2016 of the ON Portfolio.
The increase in gross profit reflects the IXYS acquisition and volume growth across all segments and expense leverage across all segments.
Income before income taxes was $52.3 million, or 11.4% of net sales, for the second quarter of 2018 compared to $57.4 million, or 18.3% of net sales, for the second quarter of 2017.
In addition to the factors impacting comparative results for operating income discussed above, income before income taxes was impacted by increased unfavorable foreign exchange losses of $3.8 million primarily due to fluctuations in the Euro and Mexican peso against the U.S. dollar and increased interest expense of $2.5 million associated with the increased borrowings for the IXYS acquisition.
Additionally, partially offsetting the previously mentioned expense increases was an increase in other income of $1.9 million during the three months ended June 30, 2018 as compared to the three months ended July 1, 2017 primarily as a result of unrealized investment gains associated with our equity investments.In connection with the preparation of this report, management, under the supervision and with the participation of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of June 30, 2018.