fls.txt
Certain statements in this section and other parts of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the federal securities laws and are entitled to the safe-harbor provisions of the PSLRA.
These risks, uncertainties and other factors include, but are not limited to, risks relating to product demand and market acceptance; economic conditions; the impact of competitive products and pricing; product quality problems or product recalls; capacity and supply difficulties or constraints; coal mining exposures reserves; failure of an indemnification for environmental liability; exchange rate fluctuations; commodity price fluctuations; the effect of the Company's accounting policies; labor disputes; restructuring costs in excess of expectations; pension plan asset returns less than assumed; uncertainties related to political or regulatory changes; the risk that expected benefits, synergies and growth prospects of the Company’s completed acquisition of IXYS Corporation (“IXYS”) may not be achieved in a timely manner, or at all; the risk that IXYS’s business may not be successfully integrated with the Company’s; the risk that the Company and IXYS will be unable to retain and hire key personnel; and the risk that disruption from the acquisition may adversely affect the Company’s or IXYS’ business and their respective relationships with customers, suppliers or employees; and other risks which may be detailed in the Company's other Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including those set forth under Item 1A.


item2.txt
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (“PSLRA”).
"Risk Factors" of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 29, 2018.
Founded in 1927, Littelfuse is a global manufacturer of leading technologies in circuit protection, power control and sensing.
Sold in over 150 countries, the Company’s products are found in automotive and commercial vehicles, industrial applications, data and telecommunications, medical devices, consumer electronics and appliances.
The Company continues to take actions to improve its cost structure and drive the synergies from the integration of IXYS.
The Company expects to realize cost savings from the restructuring activities taken during the first quarter of 2019 including the reorganization of certain manufacturing, selling and administrative functions within the Electronics and Automotive segments.
The Company estimates the restructuring costs associated with this plant closure to be approximately $5.0 million to $7.0 million.
The following table summarizes the Company’s condensed consolidated results of operations for the periods presented.
In addition, there were $0.8 million of employee termination costs and $0.1 million of acquisition-related expenses for other contemplated acquisitions.
Net sales decreased $12.3 million or 2.9% for the first quarter of 2019 compared to the first quarter of 2018 primarily due to $9.9 million or 2.4% of unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rates, lower volume in the automotive sensors and passenger car businesses within the Automotive segment, partially offset by higher sales in the semiconductor business driven by the IXYS acquisition.
Operating margins increased from 9.0% in the first quarter of 2018 to 15.0% in the first quarter of 2019 driven by factors mentioned above.
Income tax expense was $9.5 million, or an effective tax rate of 20.3%, for the first quarter of 2019 compared to $8.6 million, or an effective tax rate of 19.3%, for the first quarter of 2018.
The Company has historically supported its liquidity needs through cash flows from operations.
Management expects that the Company’s (i) current level of cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, (ii) current and forecasted cash flows from operations, (iii) availability under existing funding arrangements, and (iv) access to capital in the capital markets will provide sufficient funds to support the Company’s operations, capital expenditures, investments, and debt obligations on both a short-term and long-term basis.
In addition, the Company had the ability, from time to time, to increase the size of the Revolving Credit Facility and the Term Loan by up to an additional $150.0 million, in the aggregate, in each case in minimum increments of $25.0 million, subject to certain conditions and the agreement of participating lenders.
Term Loans may be made in up to two advances.
The first advance of $125.0 million occurred on October 13, 2017 and the second advance of $75.0 million occurred on January 16, 2018.
Outstanding borrowings under the Credit Agreement bear interest, at the Company’s option, at either LIBOR, fixed for interest periods of one, two, three or six-month periods, plus 1.00% to 2.00%, or at the bank’s Base Rate, as defined, plus 0.00% to 1.00%, based upon the Company’s Consolidated Leverage Ratio, as defined.
The credit agreement includes representations, covenants and events of default that are customary for financing transactions of this nature.
Further information regarding the Company’s credit agreement is provided in Note 9, Debt, of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report.
On December 8, 2016, the Company entered into a Note Purchase Agreement, pursuant to which the Company issued and sold €212 million aggregate principal amount of senior notes in two series.
Interest on the Euro Senior Notes is payable semiannually on June 8 and December 8, commencing June 8, 2017.
Senior Notes due 2022 and 2027”) were funded.
Interest on the U.S. Senior Notes due 2022 and 2027 is payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15, commencing August 15, 2017.
On January 16, 2018, $50 million aggregate principal amount of 3.48% Senior Notes, Series A, due February 15, 2025 (“U.S.
During the first quarter of 2019, the Company paid quarterly dividends of $10.6 million to the shareholders.


item3.txt



item4.txt
In connection with the preparation of this report, management, under the supervision and with the participation of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of March 30, 2019.


part2.txt
The Company’s Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 1,000,000 shares of the Company’s common stock under a program for the period May 1, 2018 to April 30, 2019.


