On January 1, 2018, we adopted Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers using the modified retrospective method applied to those contracts that were not substantially complete as of January 1, 2018.
For contracts that do not meet the criteria to measure performance as a right to invoice, or under the series guidance, we utilize an Estimate at Completion process to measure progress toward completion.
Offices or divisions within an agency or department of the U.S. government may directly, or through a prime contractor, use our services as a separate customer as long as the customer has independent decision-making and contracting authority within its organization.
For the three months ended March 31, 2019, the amount of revenue that was included in the opening contract liabilities balance was $18.0 million.
The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued ASC 842, Leases, to increase transparency and comparability among organizations by requiring the recognition of right of use (ROU) assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet.
Most prominent among the changes in ASC 842 is the recognition of ROU assets and lease liabilities by lessees for those leases classified as operating leases.
We are also required to recognize and measure leases existing at, or entered into after, the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented using a modified retrospective approach, with certain practical expedients available.
Our ROU asset is recognized as the lease liability, any initial indirect costs and any prepaid lease payments, less any lease incentives.
Our lease liabilities are recognized based on the present value of the future minimum lease payments over the lease term at commencement date.
Our variable lease payments are excluded in measuring ROU asset and lease liability because they do not depend on an index or a rate or are not in substance fixed payments.•Non-compliance with, or adverse changes in, complex U.S. government laws, procurement regulations or processes; •Adverse results of U.S. government audits or other investigations of our government contracts; and We urge you not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report.
We recommend that you read this discussion and analysis in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The primary driver of our increase in revenues relates to revenue from new contract awards and growth on certain existing contracts, which were offset by contracts and tasks that ended and reduced scope of work on some contracts.
As a percentage of revenues, other direct costs, which include subcontractors and third party equipment and materials used in the performance of our contracts, was 38% for the three months ended March 31, 2019, compared to 37% for the same period in 2018.
The decrease in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to reduced bid and proposal spending and amortization of acquisition intangibles offset by increased spending on infrastructure.
We expect general and administrative expenses as a percent of revenue to increase during the remainder of 2019 due to the acquisition of Kforce Government Solutions (KGS) and increased bid and proposal spending.
We expect interest expense to increase for the remainder of 2019 due to increased borrowings under our credit facility to fund the acquisition of KGS.