fls.txt
This report contains forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
See Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments, which are normal and recurring, have been included in order to make the information not misleading.
The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for the three and six months ended April 30, 2019 include the accounts of RF Industries, Ltd., Cables Unlimited, Rel-Tech, and C Enterprises, Inc. (“C Enterprises”), a wholly-owned subsidiary that RF Industries, Ltd. formed for the sole purpose of acquiring the business and assets of C Enterprises, L.P.
The acquisition of the business and assets of C Enterprises, L.P. was completed on March 15, 2019.
All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
Certain amounts in the prior period condensed consolidated financial statements and notes have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation of continuing operations and discontinued operations (see Note 3).
These reclassifications had no effect on reported consolidated net income.
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued ASU No.
This ASU requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets related to the rights and obligations created by those leases.


item2.txt
These statements are only predictions.
Moreover, neither the Company, nor any other person, assumes responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of the forward-looking statements.
On March 15, 2019, through C Enterprises, Inc. (“C Enterprises”), its newly formed subsidiary, the Company purchased the business and assets of C Enterprises L.P., a California based designer and manufacturer of quality connectivity solutions to telecommunications and data communications distributors.
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or net realizable value, with cost determined using the weighted average cost method of accounting.
The Company records its allowance for doubtful accounts based upon its assessment of various factors.
The Company assesses property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, which are considered definite-lived assets, for impairment.
If property and equipment and intangible assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized equals the amount by which the carrying value of the asset exceeds its fair market value.
The Company amortizes its intangible assets with definite useful lives over their estimated useful lives and reviews these assets for impairment.
This analysis requires significant judgments, including estimation of future cash flows, which is dependent on internal forecasts, estimation of the long-term rate of growth for our business, estimation of the useful life over which cash flows will occur, and determination of our weighted average cost of capital.
The Company records a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is believed more likely than not to be realized.
The Company uses the Black-Scholes model to value the stock option grants.
These inputs include the expected term of employee stock options, the expected volatility of the stock price, the risk-free interest rate and expected dividends.


item4.txt
Nothing to report.


part2.txt
Part II.
There have been no material changes from the risk factors previously disclosed in the above-mentioned periodic report.


