fls.txt
This report contains forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
See Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Operating results for the three month ended January 31, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the year ending October 31, 2018.
In January 2017, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No.
Instead, if “the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss shall be recognized in an amount equal to that excess, limited to the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.” The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019.
In March 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No.
2016-09, Compensation – Stock Compensation.
The closure is part of the Company’s ongoing plan to close or dispose of underperforming divisions that are not part of the Company’s core operations.
For the three months ended January 31, 2017, the Company recognized approximately $10,000 of income from sale of equipment for the Bioconnect division, which has been included within discontinued operations.
One vendor accounted for 23% of inventory purchases for the three months ended January 31, 2018.
No vendor accounted for greater than 10% of inventory purchases for the three months ended January 31, 2017.
The Company has arrangements with these vendors to purchase product based on purchase orders periodically issued by the Company.
Accrued receipts represent purchased inventory for which invoices have not been received.


item2.txt
This report contains forward-looking statements.
These statements relate to future events or the Company’s future financial performance.
These statements are only predictions.
The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of the Company are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”).
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market, with cost determined using the weighted average cost method of accounting.
The Company records its allowance for doubtful accounts based upon its assessment of various factors.
Definite-lived assets are reviewed when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable.
These events or circumstances requires significant judgment and could include a significant change in the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition and sale or disposition of all or a portion of a division.
The purchase agreement for the Rel-Tech acquisition provides for earn-out payments of up to $800,000, payable through May 31, 2018.
Significant judgment is employed in determining the appropriateness of the assumptions used in calculating the fair value of the earn-out as of the acquisition date.


item4.txt
Item 4.
Item 4.


part2.txt
Part II.
Item 1.


