fls.txt
This report contains forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
In the opinion of management, all adjustments, which are normal and recurring, have been included in order to make the information not misleading.
All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
These reclassifications had no effect on reported consolidated net income.
This ASU requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets related to the rights and obligations created by those leases.
The ASU also requires additional qualitative and quantitative disclosures related to the nature, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years.
In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No.
2017-04, Intangibles-Goodwill and Other, which simplifies the accounting for goodwill impairments by eliminating step 2 from the goodwill impairment test.
Instead, if “the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss shall be recognized in an amount equal to that excess, limited to the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.” The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019.
Two vendors each accounted for 17% of inventory purchases for the three months ended January 31, 2019.
For the three months ended January 31, 2018, one vendor accounted for 30% of inventory purchases.
Accrued receipts represent purchased inventory for which invoices have not been received.
Diluted earnings per share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding increased by the effects of assuming that other potentially dilutive securities (such as stock options) outstanding during the period had been exercised and the treasury stock method had been applied.
These options vested 8,000 shares on the date of grant, and the balance vests as to 8,000 shares per year thereafter on each of the next nine anniversaries of December 13, 2017, and expire ten years from the date of grant.


item2.txt
These statements are only predictions.
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or net realizable value, with cost determined using the weighted average cost method of accounting.
Certain items in inventory may be considered obsolete or excess and, as such, we periodically review our inventories for excess and slow moving items and make provisions as necessary to properly reflect inventory value.
The Company assesses property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, which are considered definite-lived assets, for impairment.
Definite-lived assets are reviewed when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable.
We measure recoverability of these assets by comparing the carrying amounts to the future undiscounted cash flows the assets are expected to generate.
If property and equipment and intangible assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized equals the amount by which the carrying value of the asset exceeds its fair market value.
The Company amortizes its intangible assets with definite useful lives over their estimated useful lives and reviews these assets for impairment.
This analysis requires significant judgments, including estimation of future cash flows, which is dependent on internal forecasts, estimation of the long-term rate of growth for our business, estimation of the useful life over which cash flows will occur, and determination of our weighted average cost of capital.
The Company records a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is believed more likely than not to be realized.
The Company uses the Black-Scholes model to value the stock option grants.


item3.txt



item4.txt
In designing and evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures, management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide reasonable assurance only of achieving the desired control objectives, and management necessarily is required to apply its judgment in weighting the costs and benefits of possible new or different controls and procedures.
Based on this evaluation, management concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of that date.


part2.txt
Part II.
Item 1A.


