fls.txt
This report contains forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
In the opinion of management, all adjustments, which are normal and recurring, have been included in order to make the information not misleading.
The acquisition of the business and assets of C Enterprises, L.P. was completed on March 15, 2019.
All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
These reclassifications had no effect on reported consolidated net income.
Level 3 - Valuations derived from valuation techniques in which one or more significant inputs or significant value drivers are unobservable.
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued ASU No.
This ASU requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets related to the rights and obligations created by those leases.
In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No.
2017-04, Intangibles-Goodwill and Other, which simplifies the accounting for goodwill impairments by eliminating step 2 from the goodwill impairment test.
There were no intangible assets identified as part of the acquisition.
For the three and nine months ended July 31, 2019, C Enterprises, Inc. contributed $2.9 million and $4.5 million of revenue, respectively.
Two vendors accounted for 23% and 14% of inventory purchases for the three months ended July 31, 2019.
For the nine months ended July 31, 2019, the same two vendors accounted for 17% and 14% of inventory purchases, respectively.
For the three months ended July 31, 2018, one vendor accounted for 50% of inventory purchases.


item2.txt
These statements are only predictions.
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or net realizable value, with cost determined using the weighted average cost method of accounting.
Certain items in inventory may be considered obsolete or excess and, as such, we periodically review our inventories for excess and slow moving items and make provisions as necessary to properly reflect inventory value.
The Company assesses property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, which are considered definite-lived assets, for impairment.
Definite-lived assets are reviewed when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable.
If property and equipment and intangible assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized equals the amount by which the carrying value of the asset exceeds its fair market value.
The Company amortizes its intangible assets with definite useful lives over their estimated useful lives and reviews these assets for impairment.
This analysis requires significant judgments, including estimation of future cash flows, which is dependent on internal forecasts, estimation of the long-term rate of growth for our business, estimation of the useful life over which cash flows will occur, and determination of our weighted average cost of capital.
The Company records a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is believed more likely than not to be realized.
The Company uses the Black-Scholes model to value the stock option grants.
These inputs include the expected term of employee stock options, the expected volatility of the stock price, the risk-free interest rate and expected dividends.
Net income of $2.7 million, with an added increase in cash from noncash credits of $0.4 million from depreciation and amortization and $0.3 million from stock-based compensation expense, was offset by an increase in accounts receivable ($4.4 million) and inventories ($0.5 million) as well as a decrease in accrued expenses primarily due to the payout of prior year bonuses ($0.9 million) and an increase in accounts payable ($0.1 million).


item4.txt
Nothing to report.


part2.txt
Part II.
There have been no material changes from the risk factors previously disclosed in the above-mentioned periodic report.


