fls.txt
This report contains forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
See Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments, which are normal and recurring, have been included in order to make the information not misleading.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of RF Industries, Ltd., Cables Unlimited, Inc. (“Cables Unlimited”), Comnet Telecom Supply, Inc. (“Comnet”), and Rel-Tech Electronics, Inc. (“Rel-Tech”), wholly-owned subsidiaries of RF Industries, Ltd. All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
This ASU requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets related to the rights and obligations created by those leases.
The ASU also requires additional qualitative and quantitative disclosures related to the nature, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years.
In January 2017, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No.
2017-04, Intangibles-Goodwill and Other, which simplifies the accounting for goodwill impairments by eliminating step 2 from the goodwill impairment test.
Instead, if “the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss shall be recognized in an amount equal to that excess, limited to the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.” The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019.
In March 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No.
2016-09, Compensation – Stock Compensation.


item2.txt
These statements are only predictions.
The Company is under no obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements after the filing of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q to conform such statements to actual results or to changes in its expectations.
The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of the Company are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”).
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market, with cost determined using the weighted average cost method of accounting.
The Company records its allowance for doubtful accounts based upon its assessment of various factors.
Definite-lived assets are reviewed when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable.
If property and equipment and intangible assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized equals the amount by which the carrying value of the asset exceeds its fair market value.
The purchase agreement for the Rel-Tech acquisition provides for earn-out payments of up to $800,000, payable through May 31, 2018.
As of July 31, 2018, the remaining earn-out obligation of $210,000 had not yet been paid out, however, subsequently in August 2018, the Company paid the $210,000 earn-out liability relieving the Company of its earn-out obligations.
Significant judgment is employed in determining the appropriateness of the assumptions used in calculating the fair value of the earn-out as of the acquisition date.
The Company records a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is believed more likely than not to be realized.
The Company uses the Black-Scholes model to value the stock option grants.


item4.txt
Nothing to report.


part2.txt
Part II.
There have been no material changes from the risk factors previously disclosed in the above-mentioned periodic report.


