fls.txt



item1.txt
The unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Hurco Companies, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.
We design, manufacture and sell computerized (i.e., Computer Numeric Control, or CNC) machine tools, consisting primarily of vertical machining centers (mills) and turning centers (lathes), to companies in the metal cutting industry through a worldwide sales, service and distribution network.
Although the majority of our computer control systems and software products are proprietary, they predominantly use industry standard personal computer components.
We design, manufacture and sell computerized machine tools.
Prior to the adoption of ASC 606, our revenues have already been recognized in the same manner as those required by ASC 606.
We record revenues based on a five-step model in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, guidance codified in ASC 606 “Revenue from Contracts with Customers.” In accordance with ASC 606, we have defined contracts as agreements with our customers and distributors in the form of purchase orders, packing or shipping documents, invoices, and, periodically, verbal requests for components and accessories.
A good or service is transferred when the customer obtains control of that good or service.
Our computerized machine tools are general purpose computer controlled machine tools that are typically used in stand-alone operations.


item2.txt
Hurco Companies, Inc. is an international, industrial technology company operating in a single segment.
We design, manufacture and sell computerized (i.e., Computer Numeric Control or CNC) machine tools, consisting primarily of vertical machining centers (mills) and turning centers (lathes), to companies in the metal cutting industry through a worldwide sales, service and distribution network.
Our computer control systems and software products are primarily sold as integral components of our computerized machine tool products.
We also have our own direct sales and service organizations in China, France, Germany, India, Italy, Poland, Singapore, South Africa, Taiwan, the United Kingdom and certain parts of the United States, which are among the world's principal machine tool consumption markets.
Components to support our SRT line of five-axis machining centers, such as the direct drive spindle, swivel head and rotary table, are manufactured by LCM in Italy.
Our product costs are incurred and paid primarily in the New Taiwan Dollar and the U.S. Dollar.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
The unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Hurco Companies, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.
We design, manufacture and sell computerized (i.e., Computer Numeric Control, or CNC) machine tools, consisting primarily of vertical machining centers (mills) and turning centers (lathes), to companies in the metal cutting industry through a worldwide sales, service and distribution network.
However, in our opinion, the interim data includes all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, necessary to present fairly our consolidated financial position, results of operations, changes in shareholders’ equity and cash flows for and at the end of the interim periods.
We design, manufacture and sell computerized machine tools.
Prior to the adoption of ASC 606, our revenues have already been recognized in the same manner as those required by ASC 606.
We record revenues based on a five-step model in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, guidance codified in ASC 606 “Revenue from Contracts with Customers.” In accordance with ASC 606, we have defined contracts as agreements with our customers and distributors in the form of purchase orders, packing or shipping documents, invoices, and, periodically, verbal requests for components and accessories.
For each contract, we identify our performance obligations, which is delivering goods or services, determine the transaction price, allocate the contract transaction price to the performance obligations (when applicable), and recognize the revenue when (or as) the performance obligation is transferred to the customer.
A good or service is transferred when the customer obtains control of that good or service.
Our computerized machine tools are general purpose computer controlled machine tools that are typically used in stand-alone operations.
Prior to shipment, we test each machine to ensure the machine’s compliance with standard operating specifications.
We deem the customer obtains control upon delivery of the product and that obtaining control is not contingent upon contractual customer acceptance.
Depending upon geographic location, after shipment, a machine may be installed at the customer’s facilities by a distributor, independent contractor or by one of our service technicians.
We consider the machine installation process for our three-axis machines to be inconsequential and perfunctory.
We recognize installation revenue on a prorata basis over the period of the installation process.
From time to time, and depending upon geographic location, we may provide training or freight services.


