fls.txt



item1.txt
The unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Hurco Companies, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.
We design, manufacture and sell computerized (i.e., Computer Numeric Control) machine tools, consisting primarily of vertical machining centers (mills) and turning centers (lathes), to companies in the metal cutting industry through a worldwide sales, service and distribution network.
Although the majority of our computer control systems and software products are proprietary, they predominantly use industry standard personal computer components.
Our computer control systems and software products are primarily sold as integral components of our computerized machine tool products.
We also provide machine tool components, software options, control upgrades, accessories and replacement parts for our products, as well as customer service and training support.
However, in our opinion, the interim data includes all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, necessary to present fairly our consolidated financial position, results of operations, changes in shareholders’ equity and cash flows for and at the end of the interim periods.
We enter into these forward exchange contracts to reduce the potential effects of foreign exchange rate movements on our net equity investment in one of our foreign subsidiaries, to reduce the impact on gross profit and net earnings from sales and purchases denominated in foreign currencies, and to reduce the impact on our net earnings of foreign currency fluctuations on receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies that are different than the subsidiaries’ functional currency.
We are primarily exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to transactions and net assets denominated in Euros, Pounds Sterling, Indian Rupee, South African Rand, Singapore Dollars, Chinese Yuan, Polish Zloty, and New Taiwan Dollars.
We record all derivative instruments as assets or liabilities at fair value.
At July 31, 2018, we had approximately $507,000 of losses, net of tax, related to cash flow hedges deferred in Accumulated other comprehensive loss.
To manage this risk, we entered into a forward contract with a notional amount of €3.0 million in November 2017.
This forward contract matures in November 2018.
We also enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to protect against the effects of foreign currency fluctuations on receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies.
We had forward contracts outstanding as of July 31, 2018, denominated in Euros, Pounds Sterling, South African Rand, and New Taiwan Dollar with set maturity dates ranging from August 2018 through October 2018.
Dollars at July 31, 2018 totaled $50.8 million.


item2.txt
Hurco Companies, Inc. is an international industrial technology company operating in a single segment.
We design, manufacture and sell computerized (i.e., Computer Numeric Control, or CNC) machine tools, consisting primarily of vertical machining centers (mills) and turning centers (lathes), to companies in the metal cutting industry through a worldwide sales, service and distribution network.
Although the majority of our computer control systems and software products are proprietary, they predominantly use industry standard personal computer components.
Our computer control systems and software products are primarily sold as integral components of our computerized machine tool products.
We also provide machine tool components, software options, control upgrades, accessories and replacement parts for our products, as well as customer service and training support.
The following overview is intended to provide a brief explanation of the principal factors that have contributed to our recent financial performance.
During the nine months of fiscal 2018, approximately 55% of our revenues were attributable to customers in Europe, where we typically sell more of our higher-performance, higher-priced VMX series machines.
We also have our own direct sales and service organizations in China, France, Germany, India, Italy, Poland, Singapore, South Africa, Taiwan, the United Kingdom and certain parts of the United States, which are among the world’s principal machine tool consuming markets.
Machine castings and components to support HML’s production are manufactured at our wholly-owned subsidiary in Ningbo, China, Ningbo Machine Tool Co., Ltd.
Components to support our SRT line of five-axis machining centers, such as the direct drive spindle, swivel head and rotary table, are manufactured by LCM in Italy.
Our sales to foreign customers are denominated, and payments by those customers are made, in the prevailing currencies in the countries in which those customers are located (primarily the Euro, Pound Sterling and Chinese Yuan).
Our product costs are incurred and paid primarily in the New Taiwan Dollar and the U.S. Dollar.


item3.txt
We had no other debt or borrowings under any of our other credit facilities.


item4.txt



part2.txt
We maintain insurance policies for such matters, and we record insurance recoveries when we determine such recovery to be probable.


