The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Hurco Companies, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.
We design, manufacture and sell computerized (i.e., Computer Numeric Control, or CNC) machine tools, consisting primarily of vertical machining centers (mills) and turning centers (lathes), to companies in the metal cutting industry through a worldwide sales, service and distribution network.
We also provide machine tool components, software options, control upgrades, accessories and replacement parts for our products, as well as customer service, training, and applications support.
We design, manufacture and sell computerized machine tools.
Prior to the adoption of ASC 606, our revenues were already recognized in the same manner as that required by ASC 606.
A good or service is transferred when the customer obtains control of that good or service.
Our computerized machine tools are general purpose computer controlled machine tools that are typically used in stand-alone operations.
Prior to shipment, we test each machine to ensure the machine’s compliance with standard operating specifications.
We deem that the customer obtains control upon delivery of the product and that obtaining control is not contingent upon contractual customer acceptance.
We consider the machine installation process for our three-axis machines to be inconsequential and perfunctory.Hurco Companies, Inc. is an international industrial technology company operating in a single segment.
We design, manufacture and sell computerized (i.e., Computer Numeric Control, or CNC) machine tools, consisting primarily of vertical machining centers (mills) and turning centers (lathes), to companies in the metal cutting industry through a worldwide sales, service and distribution network.
Although the majority of our computer control systems and software products are proprietary, they predominantly use industry standard personal computer components.
Our computer control systems and software products are primarily sold as integral components of our computerized machine tool products.
We also provide machine tool components, software options, control upgrades, accessories and replacement parts for our products, as well as customer service, training and applications support.
The following overview is intended to provide a brief explanation of the principal factors that have contributed to our recent financial performance.
During the first six months of fiscal 2019, approximately 51% of our revenues were attributable to customers in Europe, where we typically sell more of our higher-performance, higher-priced VMX series machines.
We also have our own direct sales and service organizations in China, France, Germany, India, Italy, Poland, Singapore, South Africa, Taiwan, the United Kingdom and certain parts of the United States, which are among the world’s principal machine tool consumption markets.