Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries GAAP”) for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Rule 8-03 of Regulation S-X.
In the opinion of the Company’s management, all adjustments that are of a normal recurring nature, considered necessary for fair presentation, have been included in the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements.
The unaudited condensed consolidated statements of earnings for the interim periods are not necessarily indicative of results for the full year.
For further information, refer to the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities Exchange Commission for the year ended December 31, 2018.
ASU 2016-02 requires a lessee to recognize in the statement of financial position a liability to make lease payments (the lease liability) and a right-of-use (“ROU”) asset representing its right to use the underlying asset for the lease term from operating leases.
In transition, lessees and lessors were originally required to recognize and measure leases at the beginning of the earliest period presented using a modified retrospective approach.
This update still requires modified retrospective transition; however, it adds the option to initially apply the new standard at the adoption date and recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment in the current period instead of at the beginning of the earliest period presented.
The new standard provides optional practical expedients in transition, which the Company has elected as a package permitting the Company to not reassess under the new standard prior conclusions regarding lease identification, lease classification and initial direct costs.Total dividends paid and shares repurchased were $0.8 million and less than $0.1 million during the three months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, and $0.8 million and $0.9 million during the three months ended June 30, 2018, respectively.
June 30, 2019 was $1.9 million compared to a net loss for the same period in the prior year of $1.1 million.
Diluted income per share for the three months ended June 30, 2019 was $0.41 compared to diluted loss per share of $0.25 for the same period in the prior year.
Net income excluding the impact of separation expenses, net of taxes (non-GAAP) for the three months ended June 30, 2019 was $1.9 million compared to $0.9 million for the same period in the prior year.
Diluted earnings per share excluding separation expenses, net of taxes (non-GAAP) for the three months ended June 30, 2019 was $0.43 compared to $0.20 for the same period in the prior year.
In subsequent periods, the accounts receivable is increased to the amounts due and payable by the customers through the accretion of interest income on the unpaid accounts receivable due in future years.
The net proceeds from such sales are included in the operating section of the statement of cash flows as changes in accounts receivable.
In the event the Company were to determine that it would not be able to realize all or part of its net deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would be charged to income in the period such determination was made.
Under the fair value recognition provision, stock-based compensation cost is measured at the grant date based on the fair value of the award and is recognized as expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period.