fls.txt
The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains, in addition to historical information, forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties.


item1.txt
Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
In the opinion of the Company’s management, all adjustments that are of a normal recurring nature, considered necessary for fair presentation, have been included in the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements.
The unaudited condensed consolidated statements of income for the interim periods are not necessarily indicative of results for the full year.
For further information, refer to the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities Exchange Commission for the year ended December 31, 2017.
ASU 2016-02 requires a lessee to recognize in the statement of financial position a liability to make lease payments and a right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying asset for the lease term.
Leases will be classified as either finance or operating leases with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition in the statement of earnings.
2016-13 is effective for the Company in the first quarter of 2020, with early adoption permitted, and is to be applied using a modified retrospective approach.
In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (“ASU 2016-15”) which reduces diversity in practice in how certain transactions are classified in the statement of cash flows.
The amendments in this updated guidance clarify that an entity should apply modification accounting in response to a change in the terms and conditions of an entity’s share-based payment awards unless three newly specified criteria are met.


item2.txt
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this report and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
The “TechXtend” segment is a value-added reseller of software, hardware and services for corporations, government organizations and academic institutions in the USA and Canada.
Total dividends paid and shares repurchased were $0.8 million and $0.02 million for the quarter ended September 30, 2018, respectively, and $0.8 million and $0.1 million for the quarter ended September 30, 2017, respectively.
This report includes “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).
The Company reported net income of $1.3 million for each of the quarters ended September 30, 2018 and 2017.
The Company makes estimates regarding performance obligations inherent in the products and services it sells including, whether ongoing maintenance obligations performed by third party vendors are distinct from the related software licenses, and allocation of sales prices among distinct performance obligations.
The net proceeds from such sales are included in the operating section of the statement of cash flows as changes in accounts receivable.
The Company has considered future taxable income and ongoing prudent and feasible tax planning strategies in assessing the need for the valuation allowance related to deferred tax assets.
In the event the Company were to determine that it would not be able to realize all or part of its net deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would be charged to income in the period such determination was made.
Under the fair value recognition provision, stock-based compensation cost is measured at the grant date based on the fair value of the award and is recognized as expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period.
ASU 2016-02 requires a lessee to recognize in the statement of financial position a liability to make lease payments and a right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying asset for the lease term.
2016-13 is effective for the Company in the first quarter of 2020, with early adoption permitted, and is to be applied using a modified retrospective approach.
The Company is currently evaluating the potential effects of adopting the provisions of ASU No.
In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (“ASU 2016-15”) which reduces diversity in practice in how certain transactions are classified in the statement of cash flows.


item3.txt



item4.txt
As required by Rule 13a-15(b) under the Exchange Act, our management carried out an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Company’s “disclosure controls and procedures”, as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act, as of the end of the period covered by this report.


part2.txt
(1)    Includes 1,888 shares surrendered to the Company by employees to satisfy individual tax withholding obligations upon vesting of previously issued shares of Restricted Stock.


