fls.txt
The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains, in addition to historical information, forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties.


item1.txt
Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries GAAP”) for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Rule 8-03 of Regulation S-X.
In the opinion of the Company’s management, all adjustments that are of a normal recurring nature, considered necessary for fair presentation, have been included in the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements.
The unaudited condensed consolidated statements of earnings for the interim periods are not necessarily indicative of results for the full year.
For further information, refer to the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities Exchange Commission for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Earnings per share for the three months ended March 31, 2017 were recalculated and restated using the two class method and presented on a comparable basis with the same periods in 2018.
In 2017 the Company determined it should be reporting earnings per share using the two-class method in accordance with ASC 260-10-45-60, which treats unvested restricted shares granted under our 2012 Stock-Based Compensation Plan that are entitled to receive non-forfeitable dividends as participating securities.
While the Company has determined the impact of applying the two-class method does not have a material impact on previously issued financial statements, it is appropriate to recalculate and restate amounts presented on a comparative and consistent basis with current period results.
ASU 2016-02 requires a lessee to recognize in the statement of financial position a liability to make lease payments and a right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying asset for the lease term.
Leases will be classified as either finance or operating leases with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition in the statement of earnings.
2016-13 revises the methodology for measuring credit losses on financial instruments and the timing of when such losses are recorded.
2016-13 is effective for the Company in the first quarter of 2020, with early adoption permitted, and is to be applied using a modified retrospective approach.
In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (“ASU 2016-15”) which reduces diversity in practice in how certain transactions are classified in the statement of cash flows.
The amendments in this updated guidance clarify that an entity should apply modification accounting in response to a change in the terms and conditions of an entity’s share-based payment awards unless three newly specified criteria are met.
The new guidance was effective for the Company on a prospective basis beginning on January 1, 2018 and did not impact the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements as it is not the Company’s practice to change either the terms or conditions of stock-based payment awards once they are granted.


item2.txt
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this report and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
The “TechXtend” segment is a value-added reseller of software, hardware and services for corporations, government organizations and academic institutions in the USA and Canada.
We derive the majority of our net sales though the sale of third party software licenses, maintenance and service agreements.
Total dividends paid and shares repurchased were $0.8 and $0.1 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2018, respectively, and $0.8 million and $1.7 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2017, respectively.
This report includes “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).
The Company believes the following critical accounting policies used in the preparation of its consolidated financial statements affect its more significant judgments and estimates.
The Company makes estimates regarding performance obligations inherent in the products and services it sells including, whether ongoing maintenance obligations performed by third party vendors are distinct from the related software licenses, and allocation of sales prices among distinct performance obligations.
The Company writes down its inventory for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated market value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions.
The Company has considered future taxable income and ongoing prudent and feasible tax planning strategies in assessing the need for the valuation allowance related to deferred tax assets.
In the event the Company were to determine that it would not be able to realize all or part of its net deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would be charged to income in the period such determination was made.
Under the fair value recognition provision, stock-based compensation cost is measured at the grant date based on the fair value of the award and is recognized as expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period.
ASU 2016-02 requires a lessee to recognize in the statement of financial position a liability to make lease payments and a right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying asset for the lease term.
Leases will be classified as either finance or operating leases with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition in the statement of earnings.


item3.txt



item4.txt
As required by Rule 13a-15(b) under the Exchange Act, our management carried out an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Company’s “disclosure controls and procedures”, as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act, as of the end of the period covered by this report.


part2.txt
(1)    Includes 9,126 shares surrendered to the Company by employees to satisfy individual tax withholding obligations upon vesting of previously issued shares of Restricted Stock.


