fls.txt



item1.txt
These accounting principles were applied on a basis consistent with those of the audited Consolidated Financial Statements contained in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) on February 28, 2018 (the “2017 Form 10-K”).
In the opinion of the Company, the accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contain all adjustments (consisting of only normal recurring adjustments, except as noted elsewhere in the notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements) necessary for a fair statement of its financial position as of March 31, 2018, the results of its operations for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 and its cash flows for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017.
The Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contained herein should be read in conjunction with the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and footnotes as of and for the year ended December 31, 2017, which were included in the 2017 Form 10-K.
The December 31, 2017 Consolidated Balance Sheet data were derived from audited financial statements but do not include all disclosures required by GAAP for annual financial statements.
ASU 2016-15 addresses how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows under Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 230, Statement of Cash Flow, and other Topics.
The impact of the Company’s adoption of ASU 2016-15 to the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements was to reflect the presentation of debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs as cash outflows from financing activities within the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
The Company adopted ASU 2016-15, which did not have a material impact on the Company’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
ASC 606 supersedes the revenue recognition requirements in ASC 605 and 985 and requires entities to recognize revenue when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to customers at an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
ASU 2016-13 requires companies to measure credit losses utilizing a methodology that reflects expected credit losses and requires a consideration of a broader range of reasonable and supportable information to inform credit loss estimates.
This ASU is not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
This ASU would require lessees to recognize the following for all leases (with the exception of short-term leases) at the commencement date; (i) a lease liability, which is a lessee’s obligation to make lease payments arising from a lease, measured on a discounted basis; and (ii) a right-of-use asset, which is an asset that represents the lessee’s right to use, or control the use of, a specified asset for the lease term.
The impact of the Company’s adoption of ASU 2016-02 to the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements will be to recognize the majority of the Company’s operating lease commitments as operating lease liabilities and right-of-use assets upon adoption, which will result in a material increase in the assets and liabilities recorded on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
The Company is continuing its assessment, which may identify additional impacts this ASU will have on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and related disclosures and internal controls over financial reporting.
Under ASC 606, the Company is required to recognize term license revenues upon the transfer of the license and recognize the associated maintenance revenues over the contract period, as opposed to the Company’s prior practice of recognizing both the term license and maintenance revenues ratably over the contract period.


item2.txt
Acquisition of DST Systems, Inc. On April 16, 2018, the Company purchased all of the outstanding stock of DST Systems, Inc. (“DST”) for approximately $5.0 billion in cash, plus the costs, fees, expenses and debt assumed in connection with the transaction.
A portion of these proceeds was used to repay the Company’s Senior Notes and the remaining amounts outstanding under the Company’s existing credit facility.
Our acquisitions, which included CommonWealth Fund Services Ltd. (“CommonWealth”) in the fourth quarter of 2017, contributed $1.8 million in revenues and the favorable impact from foreign currency translation added $3.3 million, which resulted primarily from the strength of the U.S. dollar relative to the British Pound, the Euro and the Canadian dollar.
Software-enabled services revenues increased $18.4 million or 6.6% primarily due to a continued increase in demand for our fund administration services as well as services for advisory and wealth managers.
Offsetting the overall decrease in license, maintenance and related revenues was an increase of $1.5 million due to the favorable impact from foreign currency translation.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
The information regarding certain legal proceedings in which we are involved as set forth in Note 9 – Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q) is incorporated by reference into this Item 1.
and services; (ii) impair our clients’ ability to pay for products they have purchased; or (iii) cause our clients to process fewer transactions through our software-enabled services, renegotiate their contracts with us, move their IT solutions in-house, switch to lower-priced solutions offered by our competitors or exit the industry.
Fluctuations in the value of assets under our clients’ management could also adversely affect our revenues because pricing in many of our agreements is adjusted based on assets under management.
In addition, any other events that adversely affect our clients’ businesses, rates of growth or numbers of clients they serve could decrease demand for our products and services and the number of transactions we process.
See also “-Risks Relating to Our Acquisition of DST Systems, Inc.” Consolidations or failures among our clients or within their respective industries could adversely affect us by causing a decline in demand for our products and services.
Under these contracts, the fees paid to us are based on a variety of factors, including the market value of assets under management, assets under administration and number of transactions processed.
Factors that could decrease assets under management and assets under administration (and therefore revenues) include declines in the market value of the assets in the funds (and accounts as applicable) managed, administered and distributed, redemptions and other withdrawals from, or shifts among, the funds (and accounts as applicable) managed, administered and distributed, as well as market conditions generally.
In addition, the market environment for hedge funds involves risk and has suffered significant turmoil, including as a result of substantial changes in global economies, political uncertainty, stock market declines and new regulatory initiatives.
Even in the absence of such factors, the global hedge fund industry is subject to fluctuations in assets under management that are impossible to predict or anticipate.
Further, investor demand for hedge funds has experienced recent declines and increased withdrawals as a result of poor performance relative to benchmark indices and increased negative investor sentiment on fees.


