fls.txt



item1.txt
These accounting principles were applied on a basis consistent with those of the audited Consolidated Financial Statements contained in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) on February 28, 2018 (the “2017 Form 10-K”).
In the opinion of the Company, the accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contain all adjustments (consisting of only normal recurring adjustments, except as noted elsewhere in the notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements) necessary for a fair statement of its financial position as of June 30, 2018, the results of its operations for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 and its cash flows for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017.
ASU 2016-15 addresses how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows under ASC Topic 230, Statement of Cash Flow, and other Topics.
ASU 2016-15 is effective for the Company for its first quarter of fiscal 2018 and the guidance requires application using a retrospective method.
The impact of the Company’s adoption of ASU 2016-15 to the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements was to reflect the presentation of debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs as cash outflows from financing activities within the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
The Company adopted ASU 2016-15 as of January 1, 2018, which resulted in the Company presenting fees paid for debt extinguishment as a financing activity within the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for all periods shown.
ASU 2016-01 requires equity investments, except those accounted for under the equity method of accounting, that have readily determinable fair values to be measured at fair value with any changes in fair value recognized in net income.
Equity securities that do not have readily determinable fair values may be measured at estimated fair value or cost less impairment, if any, adjusted for subsequent observable price changes, with changes in the carrying value recognized in net income.
ASU 2016-13 is effective for the Company for its first quarter of fiscal 2020 and earlier adoption is permitted beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
In connection with providing data processing services for its clients, the Company holds client funds on behalf of transfer agency clients and pharmacy processing clients.
receivables represent amounts due to the Company for pharmacy claims paid in advance of receiving client funding and for pharmacy claims processed for which client funding requests have not been made.
Funds held on behalf of clients in the form of cash, cash equivalents and certificates of deposit with a maturity of less than twelve months are included in Funds receivable and funds held on behalf of clients in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Funds held on behalf of clients in the form of certificates of deposit with a maturity of greater than twelve months are classified as Investments in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Client funds obligations represent the Company’s contractual obligations to remit funds to satisfy client pharmacy claim obligations and are recorded on the balance sheet when incurred, generally after a claim has been processed by the Company.
Under the equity method, the Company recognizes income or losses from its pro-rata share of these unconsolidated affiliates’ net income or loss, which changes the carrying value of the investment of the unconsolidated affiliate.
The Company uses net asset value as a practical expedient for the fair value of partnership interests in private equity funds that are not accounted for under the equity method of accounting.


item2.txt
Under the equity method, we recognize income or losses from our pro-rata share of these unconsolidated affiliates’ net income or loss, which changes the carrying value of the investment of the unconsolidated affiliate.
We measure equity investments in unconsolidated subsidiaries, other than those accounted for under the equity method of accounting or those that result in consolidation of the investee, at fair value, with changes in the fair value recognized in earnings.
We use net asset value as a practical expedient for the fair value of partnership interests in private equity funds that are not accounted for under the equity method of accounting.
Investments in non-marketable equity securities that do not have readily determinable fair values and do not qualify for the practical expedient to measure the investment using a net asset value per share are recorded using the measurement alternative in ASU 2016-01, Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities.
These investments are recorded at cost, less impairment, adjusted for observable price changes in orderly transactions for an identical or similar investment of the same issuer.
We have certain investments in unconsolidated affiliates accounted for under the equity method of accounting in which our carrying value exceeds the proportionate share of net assets of the unconsolidated affiliate.
Acquisition of DST Systems, Inc. On April 16, 2018, we purchased all of the outstanding stock of DST Systems, Inc. (“DST”) for approximately $5.1 billion in cash, plus the costs of effecting the transaction.
In connection with this acquisition, we entered into an amended and restated credit agreement (“Credit Agreement”) pursuant to which we borrowed an aggregate of approximately $7.4 billion (approximately $524.5 million of which was rolled over from our existing credit facility).
A portion of these proceeds was used to repay our Senior Notes and the remaining amounts outstanding under our then-existing credit facility.
In addition, the Credit Agreement includes a revolving credit facility of $250.0 million, of which $241.2 million was available as of June 30, 2018.
Our revenues increased $484.8 million, or 118.0%, primarily due to our acquisitions, which included CommonWealth Fund Services Ltd. (“CommonWealth”) in the fourth quarter of 2017 and DST and CACEIS North America (“CACEIS”) in the second quarter of 2018 which, combined, contributed $474.6 million in revenues.


item3.txt
We derive service revenues from investment earnings related to cash balances maintained in bank accounts on which we are the agent for clients.


item4.txt



part2.txt
The information regarding certain legal proceedings in which we are involved as set forth in Note 12 – Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q) is incorporated by reference into this Item 1.


