Continued on next page. 
The condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements contained in this report include the accounts of Watsco, all of its wholly owned subsidiaries and the accounts of three joint ventures with Carrier Corporation (“Carrier”), in each of which Watsco maintains a controlling interest. All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.  
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued guidance on accounting for leases, which requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets for the rights and obligations created by those leases. In July 2018, the FASB issued updated guidance that provides an additional transition method of adoption that allows entities to initially apply the standard at the adoption date and recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings. The adoption of this standard and its related amendments (collectively, the “New Lease Standard”) on January 1, 2019 did not result in the recognition of a cumulative adjustment to opening retained earnings under the additional transition method, nor did it have a significant impact on our consolidated statements of income or cash flows. See Note 2.  
In January 2017, the FASB issued guidance to simplify the subsequent measurement of goodwill by eliminating Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test. Under this updated standard, an entity should recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value, but the loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. An entity also should consider income tax effects from any 
tax-deductible goodwill on the carrying amount of the reporting unit when measuring the goodwill impairment loss, if any. This guidance is effective prospectively and is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019 with early adoption permitted. We do not expect the adoption of this guidance to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 
We adopted the New Lease Standard on January 1, 2019 using the additional transition method described in Note 1 to these condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements. Results for reporting periods beginning on and after January 1, 2019 are presented under the New Lease Standard. Prior periods have not been restated. The New Lease Standard had a material impact on our consolidated balance sheet due to the recognition of 
right-of-use (“ROU”) assets and lease liabilities for operating leases, while accounting for finance leases remained substantially unchanged. 
that did not require us to reassess (1) whether existing contracts contain embedded leases, (2) the lease classification of existing leases, and (3) whether initial direct costs for existing leases would qualify for capitalization under the New Lease Standard. We also elected the practical expedients related to short-term leases and separating lease components from 
non-lease components for all underlying asset classes. 
We have operating leases for real property, vehicles and equipment, and finance leases primarily for vehicles. Operating leases are included in operating lease 
right-of-use assets, current portion of long-term obligations, and operating lease liabilities in our consolidated balance sheet. Finance leases are not considered significant to our consolidated balance sheet or consolidated statement of income. Finance lease ROU assets at September 30, 2019 of $2,960 are included in property and equipment, net in our condensed consolidated unaudited balance sheet. Finance lease liabilities at September 30, 2019 of $3,047 are included in current portion of 
other long-term obligations and other long-term obligations, net of current portion in our condensed consolidated unaudited balance sheet. 
ROU assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term, and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease. Operating lease ROU assets and liabilities are recognized at commencement date based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term. As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement dates of the respective leases in determining the present value of the applicable lease payments.  
pre-payments made and exclude lease incentives. Certain of our leases include variable payments, which are excluded from lease ROU assets and lease liabilities and
 expensed as incurred. Our leases have remaining lease terms of 
non-lease components, which are generally accounted for as a single lease component. Lease expense for lease payments is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Lease payments for short-term leases, which are 12 months or less without a purchase option that is likely to be exercised, are recognized as lease cost on a straight-line basis over the lease term. 
At September 30, 2019, we had additional operating leases, primarily for real property, that had not yet commenced. Such leases had estimated future minimum rental commitments of approximately $1,600. These operating leases 
five years. These undiscounted amounts are not included in the table above.
. The tax effects allocated to each component of other comprehensive 
Effective May 31, 2019, we purchased an additional 20​​​​​​​% ownership interest in Homans Associates II LLC (“Homans”) from Carrier Enterprise Northeast, LLC (“Carrier Enterprise II”) for cash consideration of $32,400, which increased our ownership in Homans to 100%. Homans previously operated as a division of Carrier Enterprise II and subsequent to the purchase operates as a stand-alone subsidiary of the Company with 16 locations in the Northeastern U.S. 
ure with Carrier, Carrier Enterprise, LLC, which we refer to as Carrier Enterprise I, acquired a 34.9% ownership interest in Russell Sigler, Inc. (“RSI”), an HVAC distributor operating from 30 locations in the Western U.S. We have an 80% controlling interest in Carrier Enterprise I, and Carrier has a 20% 
Enterprise I’s ownership interest in RSI to 36.3% for cash consideration of $3,760 that was paid on July 5, 2018, of which we contributed $
 Agreement, RSI’s shareholders have the right to sell, and Carrier Enterprise I has the obligation to purchase, their respective shares of RSI for a purchase price determined based on either book value or a multiple of EBIT, the latter of which Carrier Enterprise I used to calculate the price paid for its investment in RSI. RSI’s shareholders may transfer their respective shares of RSI common stock only to members of the Sigler family or to Carrier Enterprise I, and, at any time from and after the date on which Carrier Enterprise I owns 85
% or more of RSI’s outstanding common stock, it has the right, but not the obligation, to purchase from RSI’s shareholders the remaining outstanding shares of RSI common stock. Additionally, Carrier Enterprise I has the right to appoint two of RSI’s six board members. Given Carrier Enterprise I’s 38.1​​​​​​​
board members, this investment in RSI is accounted for under the equity method. 
On August 1, 2019, Carrier Enterprise I acquired substantially all of the assets and assumed certain of the liabilities of Peirce-Phelps, Inc. (“PPI”), an HVAC distributor operating from 19 locations in Pennsylvania, New Jersey, and Delaware, for $85,000 less certain average revolving indebtedness. Consideration for the net purchase price consisted of $10,000 in cash
 Carrier contributed cash of $17,000 to Carrier Enterprise I in connection with the acquisition of PPI. 
The preliminary fair value estimate of working capital acquired of approximately $59,000 consists mainly of inventory and accounts receivable partially offset by accounts payable and accrued expenses and other liabilities. We expect to finalize certain procedures related to the opening balance sheet and adjustments to estimates of fair value of net assets acquired by December 31, 2019. Any acquired goodwill as a result of this acquisition will be deductible for tax purposes.
We enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts to offset the earnings impact that foreign exchange rate fluctuations would otherwise have on certain monetary liabilities that are denominated in nonfunctional currencies. 
12 months. Accordingly, at September 30, 2019, all our open foreign currency forward contracts had maturities of 
one year or less. The total notional value of our foreign currency exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges at September 30, 2019 was $40,400, and such contracts have varying terms expiring through June 2020. 
loss to be reclassified into earnings to reflect the fixed prices obtained from foreign exchange hedging within the next 12 months.
) from foreign currency forward and option contracts not designated as hedging instruments in our condensed consolidated unaudited statements of income for the quarters ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. We recognized losses of $175 and $299 from foreign currency forward and option contracts not designated as hedging instruments in our condensed consolidated unaudited statements of income for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. 
Equity securities – these investments are exchange-traded equity securities. Fair values for these investments are based on closing stock prices from active markets and are therefore classified within Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy. 
Derivative financial instruments – these derivatives are foreign currency forward and option contracts. See Note 
9. Fair value is based on observable market inputs, such as forward rates in active markets; therefore, we classify these derivatives within Level 2 of the valuation hierarchy. 
We paid cash dividends of $1.60, $1.45, $4.80, and $4.15 per share of both Common stock and Class B common stock during the quarters and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.  
Cash received from Common stock issued as a result of stock options exercised during the quarters and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, was $3,986, $856, $6,229, and $4,837, respectively.  
, respectively, were withheld as payment in lieu of cash for stock option exercises. These shares were retired upon delivery.  
During the quarters ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, we received net proceeds of $418 and $382, respectively, for shares of Common stock issued under our employee stock purchase plan. During the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, we received net proceeds of $1,251 and $1,142, respectively, for shares of Common stock issued under our employee stock purchase plan.  
Purchases from Carrier and its affiliates comprised 60% and 64% of all inventory purchases made during the quarters ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Purchases from Carrier and its affiliates comprised 61% and 63% of all inventory purchases made during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. At September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, approximately $120,000 and $71,000, respectively, was payable to Carrier and its affiliates, net of receivables. Our joint ventures with Carrier also sell HVAC products to Carrier and its affiliates. Revenues in our condensed consolidated unaudited 
arm’s-length basis in the ordinary course of business. 
A member of our Board of Directors is the Senior Chairman of Greenberg Traurig, P.A., which serves as our principal outside counsel for compliance and acquisition-related legal services. During the quarters and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, we paid this firm $175, $0, $175, and $18 for services performed, respectively, and 
no amount was payable at September 30, 2019.  
10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
