See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements.  
Table of Contents 
See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements.  
Table of Contents 
See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements. 
Continued on next page. 
See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements. 
See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements.  
Table of Contents 
Basis of Consolidation  
The condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements contained in this report include the accounts of Watsco, all of its wholly owned subsidiaries and the accounts of three joint ventures with Carrier Corporation (“Carrier”), in each of which Watsco maintains a controlling interest. All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.  
Use of Estimates  
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued guidance on accounting for leases, which requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets for the rights and obligations created by those leases. In July 2018, the FASB issued updated guidance that provides an additional transition method of adoption that allows entities to initially apply the standard at the adoption date and recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings. The adoption of this standard and its related amendments (collectively, the “New Lease Standard”) on January 1, 2019 did not result in the recognition of a cumulative adjustment to opening retained earnings under the additional transition method, nor did it have a significant impact on our consolidated statements of income or cash flows. See Note 2.  
Intangibles—Goodwill and Other  
In January 2017, the FASB issued guidance to simplify the subsequent measurement of goodwill by eliminating Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test. Under this updated standard, an entity should recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value, but the loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. An entity also should consider income tax effects from any 
tax-deductible goodwill on the carrying amount of the reporting unit when measuring the goodwill impairment loss, if any. This guidance is effective prospectively and is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019 with early adoption permitted. We do not expect the adoption of this guidance to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.  
Table of Contents 
We adopted the New Lease Standard on January 1, 2019 using the additional transition method described in Note 1 to these condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements. Results for reporting periods beginning on and after January 1, 2019 are presented under the New Lease Standard. Prior periods have not been restated. The New Lease Standard had a material impact on our consolidated balance sheet due to the recognition of 
right-of-use (“ROU”) assets and lease liabilities for operating leases, while accounting for finance leases remained substantially unchanged.  
We elected the package of practical expedients which did not require us to reassess (1) whether existing contracts contain embedded leases, (2) the lease classification of existing leases, and (3) whether initial direct costs for existing leases would qualify for capitalization under the New Lease Standard. We also elected the practical expedients related to short-term leases and separating lease components from non-lease components for all underlying asset classes. 
Operating and Finance Leases  
We have operating leases for real property, vehicles and equipment, and finance leases primarily for vehicles. Operating leases are included in operating lease 
ROU assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term, and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease. Operating lease ROU assets and liabilities are recognized at commencement date based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term. As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement dates of the respective leases in determining the present value of the applicable lease payments.  
Operating lease ROU assets also include any lease 
pre-payments made and exclude lease incentives. Certain of our leases include variable payments, which are excluded from lease ROU assets and lease liabilities, and are expensed as incurred. Our leases have remaining lease terms of 
non-lease components, which are generally accounted for as a single lease component. Lease expense for lease payments is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Lease payments for short-term leases, which are 12 months or less without a purchase option that is likely to be exercised, are recognized as lease cost on a straight-line basis over the lease term.  
Table of Contents 
5-11 years. These undiscounted amounts are not included in the table above. 
Prior to the adoption of the New Lease Standard, rental commitments on an undiscounted basis were approximately $219,300 at December 31, 2018 under 
Table of Contents 
Disaggregation of Revenues   
Table of Contents 
Other comprehensive income 
Table of Contents 
On June 21, 2017, our first joint venture with Carrier, Carrier Enterprise, LLC, which we refer to as Carrier Enterprise I, acquired a 34.9% ownership interest in Russell Sigler, Inc. (“RSI”), an HVAC distributor operating from 30 locations in the Western U.S. We have an 80% controlling interest in Carrier Enterprise I, and Carrier has a 20% non-controlling interest. Carrier Enterprise I acquired its ownership interest in RSI for cash consideration of $63,600, of which we contributed $50,880 and Carrier contributed $12,720. Effective June 29, 2018, Carrier Enterprise I acquired an additional 1.4% ownership interest in RSI, which increased Carrier Enterprise I’s ownership interest in RSI to 36.3% for cash consideration of $3,760 that was paid on July 5, 2018, of which we contributed $3,008 and Carrier contributed $752. Effective April 22, 2019, Carrier Enterprise I acquired an additional 1.8% ownership interest in RSI for cash consideration of $4,940, of which we contributed $3,952 and Carrier contributed $988. This acquisition increased Carrier Enterprise I’s ownership interest in RSI to 38.1%.
Carrier Enterprise I is a party to a shareholders agreement (the “Shareholders Agreement”) with RSI and its shareholders. Pursuant to the Shareholders Agreement, RSI’s shareholders have the right to sell, and Carrier Enterprise I has the obligation to purchase, their respective shares of RSI for a purchase price determined based on either book value or a multiple of EBIT, the latter of which Carrier Enterprise I used to calculate the price paid for its investment in RSI. RSI’s shareholders may transfer their respective shares of RSI common stock only to members of the Sigler family or to Carrier Enterprise I, and, at any time from and after the date on which Carrier Enterprise I owns 85% or more of RSI’s outstanding common stock, it has the right, but not the obligation, to purchase from RSI’s shareholders the remaining outstanding shares of RSI common stock. Additionally, Carrier Enterprise I has the right to appoint two of RSI’s six board members. Given Carrier Enterprise I’s 38.1​​​​​​​% voting equity interest in RSI and its right to appoint two out of RSI’s six board members, this investment in RSI is accounted for under the equity method. 
We enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts to offset the earnings impact that foreign exchange rate fluctuations would otherwise have on certain monetary liabilities that are denominated in nonfunctional currencies. 
We enter into foreign currency forward contracts that are designated as cash flow hedges. The settlement of these derivatives results in reclassifications from accumulated other comprehensive loss to earnings for the period in which the settlement of these instruments occurs. The maximum period for which we hedge our cash flow using these instruments is 12 months. Accordingly, at June 30, 2019, all of our open foreign currency forward contracts had maturities of one year or less. The total notional value of our foreign currency exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges at June 30, 2019 was $43,900, and such contracts have varying terms expiring through 
At June 30, 2019, we expected an estimated $545 
pre-tax loss to be reclassified into earnings to reflect the fixed prices obtained from foreign exchange hedging within the next 12 months.
Derivatives Not Designated as Hedging Instruments 
Equity securities – these investments are exchange-traded equity securities. Fair values for these investments are based on closing stock prices from active markets and are therefore classified within Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy.
Derivative financial instruments – these derivatives are foreign currency forward and option contracts. See Note 9. Fair value is based on observable market inputs, such as forward rates in active markets; therefore, we classify these derivatives within Level 2 of the valuation hierarchy.
There were no transfers in or out of Level 1 and Level 2 during the six months ended June 30, 2019. 
We paid cash dividends of $1.60, $1.45, $3.20, and $2.70 per share of both Common stock and Class B common stock during the quarters and six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. 
Non-Vested Restricted Stock 
During the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2019, 3,608 shares of Common and Class B common stock with an aggregate fair market value of $555, and 6,593 shares of Common and Class B common stock with an aggregate fair market value of $983, respectively, were withheld as payment in lieu of cash to satisfy tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of 
non-vested restricted stock. These shares were retired upon delivery. During the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2018, 
Exercise of Stock Options 
Cash received from Common stock issued as a result of stock options exercised during the quarters and six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, was $1,526, $1,369, $2,243, and $3,981, respectively. 
Employee Stock Purchase Plan 
Litigation, Claims and Assessments 
Purchases from Carrier and its affiliates comprised 63% and 64% of all inventory purchases made during the quarters ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Purchases from Carrier and its affiliates comprised 62% and 63% of all inventory purchases made during the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. At June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, approximately $122,000 and $71,000, respectively, was payable to Carrier and its affiliates, net of receivables. Our joint ventures with Carrier also sell HVAC products to Carrier and its affiliates. Revenues in our condensed consolidated unaudited statements of income for the quarters and six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 included approximately $23,000, $21,000, $44,000, and $37,000, respectively, of sales to Carrier and its affiliates. We believe these transactions are conducted on terms equivalent to an 
arm’s-length basis in the ordinary course of business.
A member of our Board of Directors is the Senior Chairman of Greenberg Traurig, P.A., which serves as our principal outside counsel for compliance and acquisition-related legal services. During the quarters and six months ended June 30, 2019 and June 30, 2018, we paid this firm $0, $14, $0 and $18 for services performed, respectively, and no amount was payable at June 30, 2019. 
On August 1, 2019, Carrier Enterprise I acquired substantially all of the assets and assumed certain of the liabilities of Peirce-Phelps, Inc. (“PPI”), an HVAC distributor operating from 19 locations in Pennsylvania, New Jersey, and Delaware, for $85,000 less certain average revolving indebtedness. Consideration for the net purchase price consisted of $10,000 in cash and 372,543 shares of Common stock having a fair value of $58,638. Carrier contributed cash of $
17,000 to Carrier Enterprise I in connection with the acquisition of PPI.
 ITEM 1A.  
10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018. 
