Item 1. Financial Statements  
See accompanying notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.  
See accompanying notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.  
See accompanying notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.  
See accompanying notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.  
See accompanying notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.  
1. Basis of Presentation  
2. Earnings Per Share and Dividends  
Earnings Per Share  
The Company calculates its basic earnings per share by dividing net income attributable to Jabil Inc. by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. The Company’s diluted earnings per share is calculated in a similar manner, but includes the effect of dilutive securities. The difference between the weighted average number of basic shares outstanding and the weighted average number of diluted shares outstanding is primarily due to dilutive unvested restricted stock awards and dilutive stock appreciation rights.  
Dividends  
4. Stock-Based Compensation and Share Repurchases  
 (1) Represents a one-time cash-settled stock award that vested on November 30, 2017.  
As of February 28, 2018, the shares available to be issued under the 2011 Stock Award and Incentive Plan were 12,573,989.  
Restricted Stock Awards  
On October 6, 2017, the Company’s Compensation Committee approved the modification of vesting criteria for certain performance-based restricted stock awards granted in fiscal year 2015. As a result of the modification, 0.8 million awards vested during the first quarter of fiscal year 2018, which resulted in approximately $24.9 million of stock-based compensation expense recognized.  
In July 2017, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $450.0 million of the Company’s common stock (the “2017 Share Repurchase Program”). The 2017 Share Repurchase Program expires on August 31, 2018. As of February 28, 2018, 8.2 million shares had been repurchased for $225.0 million and $225.0 million remains available under the 2017 Share Repurchase Program.  
5. Concentration of Risk and Segment Data  
Concentration of Risk  
Sales of the Company’s products are concentrated among specific customers. During the six months ended February 28, 2018, the Company’s five largest customers accounted for approximately 51% of its net revenue and 74 customers accounted for approximately 90% of its net revenue. Sales to these customers were reported in the Electronics Manufacturing Services (“EMS”) and Diversified Manufacturing Services (“DMS”) operating segments.  
The Company procures components from a broad group of suppliers. Almost all of the products manufactured by the Company require one or more components that are available from only a single source.  
As of February 28, 2018, the Company operated in 29 countries worldwide. Sales to unaffiliated customers are based on the Company’s location that maintains the customer relationship and transacts the external sale. Total foreign net revenue represented 91.9% and 92.1% of net revenue during the three months and six months ended February 28, 2018, respectively, compared to 90.9% and 91.7% of net revenue during the three months and six months ended February 28, 2017.  
6. Notes Payable, Long-Term Debt and Capital Lease Obligations  
 (1) The notes are carried at the principal amount of each note, less any unamortized discount and unamortized debt issuance costs.  
 (2) The Senior Notes are the Company’s senior unsecured obligations and rank equally with all other existing and future senior unsecured debt obligations.  
Fees include a facility fee based on the revolving credit commitments of the lenders and a letter of credit fee based on the amount of outstanding letters of credit.  
As of February 28, 2018, the Company has $2.2 billion in available unused borrowing capacity under its revolving credit facilities.  
Debt Covenants  
The estimated fair values of the Company’s publicly traded debt, including the 5.625%, 4.700% and 3.950% senior notes, were approximately $424.4 million, $517.5 million and $480.2 million, respectively, as of February 28, 2018. The fair value estimates are based upon observable market data (Level 2 criteria). The estimated fair value of the Company’s private debt, the 4.900% senior notes, was approximately $306.5 million, as of February 28, 2018. This fair value estimate is based on the Company’s indicative borrowing cost derived from discounted cash flows (Level 3 criteria). The carrying amounts of borrowings under credit facilities and under loans approximate fair value as interest rates on these instruments approximate current market rates.  
7. Trade Accounts Receivable Securitization and Sale Programs  
The Company regularly sells designated pools of trade accounts receivable under two asset-backed securitization programs and seven uncommitted trade accounts receivable sale programs (collectively referred to herein as the “programs”). The Company continues servicing the receivables sold and in exchange receives a servicing fee under each of the programs. Servicing fees related to each of the programs recognized during the three months and six months ended February 28, 2018 and 2017 were not material. The Company does not record a servicing asset or liability on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as the Company estimates that the fee it receives to service these receivables approximates the fair market compensation to provide the servicing activities.  
The special purpose entity in the North American asset-backed securitization program is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. The special purpose entity in the foreign asset-backed securitization program is a separate bankruptcy-remote entity whose assets would be first available to satisfy the creditor claims of the unaffiliated financial institution. The Company is deemed the primary beneficiary of this special purpose entity as the Company has both the power to direct the activities of the entity that most significantly impact the entity’s economic performance and the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive the benefits that could potentially be significant to the entity from the transfer of the trade accounts receivable into the special purpose entity. Accordingly, the special purpose entities associated with these asset-backed securitization programs are included in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.  
 (2) On November 9, 2017, the program was extended to October 20, 2020.  
 (1) For the three months and six months ended February 28, 2018 and 2017, the amount represented proceeds from collections reinvested in revolving-period transfers as there were no new transfers during the period.  
 (2) Recorded to other expense within the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.  
 (3) Recorded initially at fair value as prepaid expenses and other current assets on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and are valued using unobservable inputs (Level 3 inputs), primarily discounted cash flows, and due to their credit quality and short-term maturity the fair values approximated book values. The unobservable inputs consist of estimated credit losses and estimated discount rates, which both have an immaterial impact on the fair value calculations.  
The asset-backed securitization programs require compliance with several covenants. The North American asset-based securitization program covenants include compliance with the interest ratio and debt to EBITDA ratio of the Credit Facility. The foreign asset-backed securitization program covenants include limitations on certain corporate actions such as mergers and consolidations. As of February 28, 2018 and August 31, 2017, the Company was in compliance with all covenants under the asset-backed securitization programs.  
Trade Accounts Receivable Sale Programs  
 (2) Any party may elect to terminate the agreement upon 15 days prior notice.  
 (3) The program will be automatically extended through January 25, 2023 unless either party provides 30 days notice of termination.  
 (1) The resulting losses on the sales of trade accounts receivable during the three months and six months ended February 28, 2018 and 2017 were not material and were recorded to other expense within the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.  
8. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income  
 (1) There is no tax benefit (expense) related to the foreign currency translation adjustment components of AOCI, including reclassification adjustments, for the three months and six months ended February 28, 2018.  
 (2) $7.0 million of AOCI reclassified into earnings during the six months ended February 28, 2018 for derivative instruments was classified as a reduction of income tax expense. The remaining amount reclassified into earnings was primarily classified as a component of cost of revenue. $7.8 million is expected to be reclassified into earnings during the next 6 months and will be classified as a reduction of income tax expense. The remaining amount expected to be reclassified into earnings will be classified as a component of cost of revenue. The annual tax benefit (expense) for unrealized gains on derivative instruments is not material for the three months and six months ended February 28, 2018.  
 (3) There is no tax benefit (expense) related to the available for sale securities components of AOCI, including reclassification adjustments, for the three months and six months ended February 28, 2018.  
9. Commitments and Contingencies  
Foreign Currency Risk Management  
Forward contracts are put in place to manage the foreign currency risk associated with the anticipated foreign currency denominated revenues and expenses. A hedging relationship existed with an aggregate notional amount outstanding of $391.8 million and $314.6 million as of February 28, 2018 and August 31, 2017, respectively. The related forward foreign exchange contracts have been designated as hedging instruments and are accounted for as cash flow hedges. The forward foreign exchange contract transactions will effectively lock in the value of anticipated foreign currency denominated revenues and expenses against foreign currency fluctuations. The anticipated foreign currency denominated revenues and expenses being hedged are expected to occur between March 1, 2018 and November 30, 2018.  
In addition to derivatives that are designated as hedging instruments and qualify for hedge accounting, the Company also enters into forward contracts to economically hedge transactional exposure associated with commitments arising from trade accounts receivable, trade accounts payable, fixed purchase obligations and intercompany transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the respective operating entity. The aggregate notional amount of these outstanding contracts as of February 28, 2018 and August 31, 2017, was $2.4 billion and $2.1 billion, respectively.  
The Company’s forward foreign exchange contracts are measured on a recurring basis at fair value, based on foreign currency spot rates and forward rates quoted by banks or foreign currency dealers.  
During the three months and six months ended February 28, 2018, the Company recognized $22.9 million and $32.7 million, respectively, in foreign currency losses, which were offset by $31.2 million and $51.0 million of gains, respectively, from related forward contracts. Both the foreign currency losses and gains from forward contracts were recognized in cost of revenue. For the three months and six months ended February 28, 2017, the amounts were immaterial and were recognized as components of cost of revenue.  
Interest Rate Risk Management  
During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2016, the Company entered into forward interest rate swap transactions to hedge the fixed interest rate payments for an anticipated debt issuance, which was the issuance of the 3.950% Senior Notes. The swaps were accounted for as a cash flow hedge and had a notional amount of $200.0 million. Concurrently with the pricing of the 3.950% Senior Notes, the Company settled the swaps. The fair value of the cash received for the swaps at settlement was $17.2 million. The effective portion of the swaps is recorded in the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets as a component of AOCI and is amortized to interest expense in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Operations through January 2028. The effective portions of the swaps amortized to interest expense during the three months ended February 28, 2018 was not material.  
During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2016, the Company entered into interest rate swap transactions to hedge the variable interest rate payments for the Term Loan Facility. In connection with this transaction, the Company will pay interest based upon a fixed rate as agreed upon with the respective counterparties and receive variable rate interest payments based on the one-month LIBOR. The interest rate swaps have an aggregate notional amount of $200.0 million and have been designated as hedging instruments and accounted for as cash flow hedges. The interest rate swaps were effective on September 30, 2016 and are scheduled to expire on June 30, 2019. The contracts will be settled with the respective counterparties on a net basis at each settlement date. Changes in the fair value of the interest rate swap transactions are recorded in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as a component of AOCI.  
11. Restructuring and Related Charges  
   (1) Includes $2.1 million and $4.0 million recorded in the EMS segment, $3.3 million and $36.6 million recorded in the DMS segment and $0.0 million and $4.4 million of non-allocated charges for the three months ended February 28, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Includes $8.0 million and $11.3 million recorded in the EMS segment, $7.9 million and $48.1 million recorded to the DMS segment and $0.9 million and $21.4 million of non-allocated charges for the six months ended February 28, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Except for asset write-off costs, all restructuring and related charges are cash costs.  
   (2) Primarily relates to the 2017 Restructuring Plan.  
On September 15, 2016, the Company’s Board of Directors formally approved a restructuring plan to better align the Company’s global capacity and administrative support infrastructure to further optimize organizational effectiveness. This action includes headcount reductions across the Company’s selling, general and administrative cost base and capacity realignment in higher cost locations (the “2017 Restructuring Plan”).  
The tables below summarize the Company’s liability activity, primarily associated with the 2017 Restructuring Plan  
On September 1, 2017, the Company completed the acquisition of True-Tech Corporation (“True-Tech”) for approximately $95.9 million in cash. True-Tech is a manufacturer specializing in aerospace, semiconductor and medical machined components.  
The acquisition of True-Tech assets has been accounted for as a business combination using the acquisition method of accounting. Assets acquired of $114.7 million, including $25.9 million in intangible assets and $22.6 million in goodwill, and liabilities assumed of $18.8 million were recorded at their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the acquired assets and assumed liabilities was recorded to goodwill and was fully allocated to the EMS segment. The majority of the goodwill is currently expected to be deductible for income tax purposes. The results of operations were included in the Company’s condensed consolidated financial results beginning on September 1, 2017. Pro forma information has not been provided as the acquisition of True-Tech is not deemed to be significant.  
During fiscal year 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued an accounting standard which will supersede existing revenue recognition guidance under current U.S. GAAP. The new standard is a comprehensive new revenue recognition model that requires a company to recognize revenue to depict the transfer of goods or services to a customer at an amount that reflects the consideration it expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services. The accounting standard is effective for the Company in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019. Companies may use either a full retrospective or a modified retrospective approach to adopt this standard.  
During fiscal year 2016, the FASB issued a new accounting standard to address certain aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of financial instruments. This guidance is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019. Early application is permitted only for certain provisions, and the update must be applied by means of a cumulative-effect adjustment to the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption and applied prospectively to equity investments that exist as of the date of adoption of the standard. The Company is currently assessing the impact this new standard may have on its Consolidated Financial Statements.  
During fiscal year 2016, the FASB issued a new accounting standard revising lease accounting. The new guidance requires organizations to recognize lease assets and lease liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet and disclose key information regarding leasing arrangements. This guidance is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020. Early application of the new standard is permitted and the standard must be adopted using a modified retrospective approach. The adoption of this standard will impact the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet. The Company is currently assessing any other impacts this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements.  
During fiscal year 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard, which replaces the existing incurred loss impairment methodology with a methodology that reflects expected credit losses and requires consideration of a broader range of reasonable and supportable information to inform credit loss estimates. This guidance is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021 and early adoption is permitted beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020. This guidance must be applied using a modified retrospective or prospective transition method, depending on the area covered by this accounting standard. The Company is currently assessing the impact this new standard may have on its Consolidated Financial Statements.  
During fiscal year 2016, the FASB issued a new accounting standard to address the presentation of certain transactions within the statement of cash flows with the objective of reducing the existing diversity in practice. This guidance is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 and early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently assessing the impact this new standard may have on its Consolidated Financial Statements.  
During fiscal year 2017, the FASB issued a new accounting standard to improve the accounting for the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory. The new standard eliminates the exception for an intra-entity transfer of an asset other than inventory and requires an entity to recognize the income tax consequences when the transfer occurs. This guidance is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 and early adoption is permitted. This guidance should be applied on a modified retrospective basis through a cumulative-effect adjustment directly to retained earnings as of the beginning of the period of adoption. The Company is currently assessing the impact this new standard may have on its Consolidated Financial Statements.  
During fiscal year 2017, the FASB issued a new accounting standard to simplify how an entity is required to test goodwill for impairment by eliminating the requirement to calculate the implied fair value of goodwill (i.e., Step 2 of the current goodwill impairment test) to measure a goodwill impairment charge. Goodwill will be considered impaired when the carrying amount of a reporting unit that includes goodwill exceeds its fair value. This guidance is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021, with early application permitted. The guidance will be applied on a prospective basis. The Company is currently assessing the impact this new standard may have on its Consolidated Financial Statements.  
During fiscal year 2017, the FASB issued a new accounting standard which clarifies the scope of accounting for asset derecognition and adds further guidance for recognizing gains and losses from the transfer of non-financial assets in contracts with non-customers. This guidance is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 coincident with the new revenue recognition guidance. The Company is currently assessing the impact this new standard may have on its Consolidated Financial Statements.  
During the second quarter of fiscal year 2018, the FASB issued a new accounting standard which allows a reclassification from accumulated other comprehensive income to retained earnings for stranded tax effects resulting from the Tax Act. This guidance is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020, with early adoption permitted. The Company is currently assessing the impact this new standard may have on its Consolidated Financial Statements.  
Recently issued accounting guidance not discussed above is not applicable or did not have, or is not expected to have, a material impact to the Company.  
   •   our ability to manage growth effectively;  
   •   the susceptibility of our production levels to the variability of customer requirements;  
   •   our exposure to the risks of a substantial international operation; and  
Item 1. Legal Proceedings  
Item 1A. Risk Factors  
