 Item 1. Financial Statements  
2. Earnings Per Share and Dividends  
The Company calculates its basic earnings per share by dividing net income attributable to Jabil Inc. by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. The Company’s diluted earnings per share is calculated in a similar manner, but includes the effect of dilutive securities. The difference between the weighted average number of basic shares outstanding and the weighted average number of diluted shares outstanding is primarily due to dilutive unvested restricted stock awards and dilutive stock appreciation rights.  
4. Stock-Based Compensation and Share Repurchases  
 (1)  Represents a one-time cash-settled stock award that vested on November 30, 2017.  
As of May 31, 2018, the shares available to be issued under the 2011 Stock Award and Incentive Plan were 12,777,424.  
On October 6, 2017, the Company’s Compensation Committee approved the modification of vesting criteria for certain performance-based restricted stock awards granted in fiscal year 2015. As a result of the modification, 0.8 million awards vested during the first quarter of fiscal year 2018, which resulted in approximately $24.9 million of stock-based compensation expense recognized.  
In July 2017, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $450.0 million of the Company’s common stock (the “2017 Share Repurchase Program”). The 2017 Share Repurchase Program expires on August 31, 2018. As of May 31, 2018, 11.5 million shares had been repurchased for $316.2 million and $133.8 million remains available under the 2017 Share Repurchase Program.  
In June 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $350.0 million of the Company’s common stock (the “2018 Share Repurchase Program”). The 2018 Share Repurchase Program expires August 31, 2019.  
5. Concentration of Risk and Segment Data  
Sales of the Company’s products are concentrated among specific customers. During the nine months ended May 31, 2018, the Company’s five largest customers accounted for approximately 50% of its net revenue and 77 customers accounted for approximately 90% of its net revenue. Sales to these customers were reported in the Electronics Manufacturing Services (“EMS”) and Diversified Manufacturing Services (“DMS”) operating segments.  
The Company procures components from a broad group of suppliers. Almost all of the products manufactured by the Company require one or more components that are available from only a single source.  
Net revenue for the operating segments is attributed to the segment in which the service is performed. An operating segment’s performance is evaluated based on its pre-tax operating contribution, or segment income. Segment income is defined as net revenue less cost of revenue, segment selling, general and administrative expenses, segment research and development expenses and an allocation of corporate manufacturing expenses and selling, general and administrative expenses. Segment income does not include amortization of intangibles, stock-based compensation expense and related charges, restructuring and related charges, distressed customer charges, acquisition costs and certain purchase accounting adjustments, loss on disposal of subsidiaries, settlement of receivables and related charges, impairment of notes receivable and related charges, goodwill impairment charges, business interruption and impairment charges, net, income (loss) from discontinued operations, gain (loss) on sale of discontinued operations, other expense, interest income, interest expense, income tax expense or adjustment for net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests. Total segment assets are defined as accounts receivable, inventories, net, customer-related property, plant and equipment, intangible assets net of accumulated amortization and goodwill. All other non-segment assets are reviewed on a global basis by management. Transactions between operating segments are generally recorded at amounts that approximate those at which the Company would transact with third parties.  
As of May 31, 2018, the Company operated in 29 countries worldwide. Sales to unaffiliated customers are based on the Company’s location that maintains the customer relationship and transacts the external sale. Total foreign net revenue represented 91.2% and 91.8% of net revenue during the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2018, respectively, compared to 90.6% and 91.3% of net revenue during the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2017, respectively.  
6. Notes Payable, Long-Term Debt and Capital Lease Obligations  
 (1)  The notes are carried at the principal amount of each note, less any unamortized discount and unamortized debt issuance costs.  
 (2)  The Senior Notes are the Company’s senior unsecured obligations and rank equally with all other existing and future senior unsecured debt obligations.  
 (3)  During the second quarter of fiscal year 2018, the Company issued $500.0 million of publicly registered 3.950% Senior Notes due 2028 (the “3.950% Senior Notes”). The net proceeds from the offering were used for general corporate purposes, including to redeem $400.0 million of the Company’s outstanding 8.250% Senior Notes due 2018 and pay related costs and a “make-whole” premium.  
 represents adjusted LIBOR or adjusted CDOR, as applicable, for the applicable interest period, but not less than zero. Fees include a facility fee based on the revolving credit commitments of the lenders and a letter of credit fee based on the amount of outstanding letters of credit.  
Additionally, the Company’s foreign subsidiaries had various additional credit facilities that finance their future growth and any corresponding working capital needs.  
As of May 31, 2018, the Company has $1.9 billion in available unused borrowing capacity under its revolving credit facilities.  
The estimated fair values of the Company’s publicly traded debt, including the 5.625%, 4.700% and 3.950% Senior Notes, were approximately $419.5 million, $514.1 million and $481.7 million, respectively, as of May 31, 2018. The fair value estimates are based upon observable market data (Level 2 criteria). The estimated fair value of the Company’s private debt, the 4.900% Senior Notes, was approximately $306.5 million, as of May 31, 2018. This fair value estimate is based on the Company’s indicative borrowing cost derived from discounted cash flows (Level 3 criteria). The carrying amounts of borrowings under credit facilities and under loans approximate fair value as interest rates on these instruments approximate current market rates.  
7. Trade Accounts Receivable Securitization and Sale Programs  
The Company regularly sells designated pools of trade accounts receivable under two asset-backed securitization programs and seven uncommitted trade accounts receivable sale programs (collectively referred to herein as the “programs”). The Company continues servicing the receivables sold and in exchange receives a servicing fee under each of the programs. Servicing fees related to each of the programs recognized during the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2018 and 2017 were not material. The Company does not record a servicing asset or liability on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as the Company estimates that the fee it receives to service these receivables approximates the fair market compensation to provide the servicing activities.  
Transfers of the receivables under the programs are accounted for as sales and, accordingly, net receivables sold under the programs are excluded from accounts receivable on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and are reflected as cash provided by operating activities on the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.  
The special purpose entity in the North American asset-backed securitization program is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. The special purpose entity in the foreign asset-backed securitization program is a separate bankruptcy-remote entity whose assets would be first available to satisfy the creditor claims of the unaffiliated financial institution. The Company is deemed the primary beneficiary of this special purpose entity as the Company has both the power to direct the activities of the entity that most significantly impact the entity’s economic performance and the obligation to absorb losses or the right to  
 receive the benefits that could potentially be significant to the entity from the transfer of the trade accounts receivable into the special purpose entity. Accordingly, the special purpose entities associated with these asset-backed securitization programs are included in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.  
 (2)  On November 9, 2017, the program was extended to October 20, 2020.  
 (3)  On April 19, 2018, the program was extended to September 28, 2018.  
 (1)  For the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2018 and 2017, the amount represented proceeds from collections reinvested in revolving-period transfers as there were no new transfers during the period.  
 (2)  Recorded to other expense within the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.  
 (3)  Recorded initially at fair value as prepaid expenses and other current assets on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and are valued using unobservable inputs (Level 3 inputs), primarily discounted cash flows, and due to their credit quality and short-term maturity the fair values approximated book values. The unobservable inputs consist of estimated credit losses and estimated discount rates, which both have an immaterial impact on the fair value calculations.  
 (2)  Any party may elect to terminate the agreement upon 15 days prior notice.  
 (3)  On May 4, 2018, the program was extended to May 4, 2023.  
8. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income  
 (1)  There is no tax benefit (expense) related to the foreign currency translation adjustment components of AOCI, including reclassification adjustments, for the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2018.  
 (2)  $10.0 million of AOCI reclassified into earnings during the nine months ended May 31, 2018 for derivative instruments was classified as a reduction of income tax expense. The remaining amount reclassified into earnings was primarily classified as a component of cost of revenue. $4.8 million is expected to be reclassified into earnings during the next three months and will be classified as a reduction of income tax expense. The remaining amount expected to be reclassified into earnings will be classified as a component of cost of revenue. The annual tax benefit (expense) for unrealized gains on derivative instruments is not material for the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2018.  
 (3)  There is no tax benefit (expense) related to the available for sale securities components of AOCI, including reclassification adjustments, for the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2018.  
Forward contracts are put in place to manage the foreign currency risk associated with the anticipated foreign currency denominated revenues and expenses. A hedging relationship existed with an aggregate notional amount outstanding of $252.3 million and $314.6 million as of May 31, 2018 and August 31, 2017, respectively. The related forward foreign exchange contracts have been designated as hedging instruments and are accounted for as cash flow hedges. The forward foreign exchange contract transactions will effectively lock in the value of anticipated foreign currency denominated revenues and expenses against foreign currency fluctuations. The anticipated foreign currency denominated revenues and expenses being hedged are expected to occur between June 1, 2018 and February 28, 2019.  
In addition to derivatives that are designated as hedging instruments and qualify for hedge accounting, the Company also enters into forward contracts to economically hedge transactional exposure associated with commitments arising from trade accounts receivable, trade accounts payable, fixed purchase obligations and intercompany transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the respective operating entity. The aggregate notional amount of these outstanding contracts as of May 31, 2018 and August 31, 2017, was $2.2 billion and $2.1 billion, respectively.  
The Company’s forward foreign exchange contracts are measured on a recurring basis at fair value, based on foreign currency spot rates and forward rates quoted by banks or foreign currency dealers.  
During the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2018, the Company recognized $27.2 million and $59.8 million, respectively, in foreign currency losses, which were offset by $41.2 million and $92.2 million of gains, respectively, from related forward contracts. Both the foreign currency losses and gains from forward contracts were recognized in cost of revenue. For the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2017, the amounts were immaterial and were recognized as components of cost of revenue.  
During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2016, the Company entered into forward interest rate swap transactions to hedge the fixed interest rate payments for an anticipated debt issuance, which was the issuance of the 3.950% Senior Notes. The swaps were accounted for as a cash flow hedge and had a notional amount of $200.0 million. Concurrently with the pricing of the 3.950% Senior Notes, in the second quarter of fiscal year 2018 the Company settled the swaps. The fair value of the cash received for the swaps at settlement was $17.2 million. The effective portion of the swaps is recorded in the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets as a component of AOCI and is amortized as a reduction to interest expense in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Operations through January 2028. The effective portions of the swaps amortized to interest expense during the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2018 was not material.  
During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2016, the Company entered into interest rate swap transactions to hedge the variable interest rate payments for the Term Loan Facility. In connection with this transaction, the Company pays interest based upon a fixed rate as agreed upon with the respective counterparties and receives variable rate interest payments based on the one-month LIBOR. The interest rate swaps have an aggregate notional amount of $200.0 million and have been designated as hedging instruments and accounted for as cash flow hedges. The interest rate swaps were effective on September 30, 2016 and are scheduled to expire on June 30, 2019. The contracts will be settled with the respective counterparties on a net basis at each settlement date. Changes in the fair value of the interest rate swap transactions are recorded in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as a component of AOCI.  
11. Restructuring and Related Charges  
 (1)  Includes $4.6 million and $12.4 million recorded in the EMS segment, $5.8 million and $17.8 million recorded in the DMS segment and $2.2 million and $2.5 million of non-allocated charges for the three months ended May 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Includes $12.6 million and $23.8 million recorded in the EMS segment, $13.8 million and $65.8 million recorded to the DMS segment and $3.1 million and $23.9 million of non-allocated charges for the nine months ended May 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Except for asset write-off costs, all restructuring and related charges are cash costs.  
 (2)  Primarily relates to the 2017 Restructuring Plan.  
On September 15, 2016, the Company’s Board of Directors formally approved a restructuring plan to better align the Company’s global capacity and administrative support infrastructure to further optimize organizational effectiveness. This action includes headcount reductions across the Company’s selling, general and administrative cost base and capacity realignment in higher cost locations (the “2017 Restructuring Plan”).  
On September 1, 2017, the Company completed the acquisition of True-Tech Corporation (“True-Tech”) for approximately $95.9 million in cash. True-Tech is a manufacturer specializing in aerospace, semiconductor and medical machined components.  
The acquisition of True-Tech assets has been accounted for as a business combination using the acquisition method of accounting. Assets acquired of $114.7 million, including $25.9 million in intangible assets and $22.6 million in goodwill, and liabilities assumed of $18.8 million were recorded at their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the acquired assets and assumed liabilities was recorded to goodwill and was fully allocated to the EMS segment. The majority of the goodwill is currently expected to be deductible for income tax purposes. The results of operations were included in the Company’s condensed consolidated financial results beginning on September 1, 2017. Pro forma information has not been provided as the acquisition of True-Tech is not deemed to be significant.  
During fiscal year 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued an accounting standard which will supersede existing revenue recognition guidance under current U.S. GAAP. The new standard is a comprehensive new revenue recognition model that requires a company to recognize revenue to depict the transfer of goods or services to a customer at an amount that reflects the consideration it expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services. The accounting standard is effective for the Company in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019. Companies may use either a full retrospective or a modified retrospective approach to adopt this standard.  
During fiscal year 2016, the FASB issued a new accounting standard revising lease accounting. The new guidance requires organizations to recognize lease assets and lease liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet and disclose key information regarding leasing arrangements. This guidance is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020. Early application of the new standard is permitted and the standard must be adopted using a modified retrospective approach. The adoption of this standard will impact the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet. The Company is currently assessing any other impacts this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements.  
During fiscal year 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard, which replaces the existing incurred loss impairment methodology with a methodology that reflects expected credit losses and requires consideration of a broader range of reasonable and supportable information to inform credit loss estimates. This guidance is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021 and early adoption is permitted beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020. This guidance must be applied using a modified retrospective or prospective transition method, depending on the area covered by this accounting standard. The Company is currently assessing the impact this new standard may have on its Consolidated Financial Statements.  
During fiscal year 2016, the FASB issued a new accounting standard to address the presentation of certain transactions within the statement of cash flows with the objective of reducing the existing diversity in practice. Adoption of this standard will be required on a retrospective basis and will result in a reclassification of cash flows from operating activities to investing activities in the Company’s Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for cash receipts for the deferred purchase price receivable on asset-backed securitization transactions. This guidance is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019. While the Company is still quantifying the impact of this standard, it expects a material increase in cash flow from investing activities with a corresponding decrease to cash flow from operating activities upon adoption of the standard.  
During fiscal year 2017, the FASB issued a new accounting standard to improve the accounting for the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory. The new standard eliminates the exception for an intra-entity transfer of an asset other than inventory and requires an entity to recognize the income tax consequences when the transfer occurs. This guidance is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019. This guidance should be applied on a modified retrospective basis through a cumulative-effect adjustment directly to retained earnings as of the beginning of the period of adoption. The adoption of this standard is not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements; however, the impact on future periods will depend on the facts and circumstances of future transactions.  
During fiscal year 2017, the FASB issued a new accounting standard which clarifies the scope of accounting for asset derecognition and adds further guidance for recognizing gains and losses from the transfer of non-financial assets in contracts with non-customers. This guidance is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 coincident with the new revenue recognition guidance. The Company is currently assessing the impact this new standard may have on its Consolidated Financial Statements.  
During the second quarter of fiscal year 2018, the FASB issued a new accounting standard which allows a reclassification from accumulated other comprehensive income to retained earnings for stranded tax effects resulting from the Tax Act. This guidance is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020, with early adoption permitted. The Company is currently assessing the impact this new standard may have on its Consolidated Financial Statements.  
Recently issued accounting guidance not discussed above is not applicable or did not have, or is not expected to have, a material impact to the Company.  
 Item 1. Legal Proceedings  
 Item 1A. Risk Factors  
