Overview  
We serve our customers primarily through dedicated business units that combine highly automated, continuous flow manufacturing with advanced electronic design and design for manufacturability. We depend, and expect to continue to depend, upon a relatively small number of customers for a significant percentage of our net revenue, which in turn depends upon their growth, viability and financial stability. Based on net revenue for the three months ended November 30, 2018, our largest customers include Apple, Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc., GoPro, Inc., Hewlett-Packard Company, Keysight Technologies, LM Ericsson Telephone Company, NetApp, Inc., Nokia Networks, Valeo S.A. and Zebra Technologies Corporation.  
Summary of Results  
Key Performance Indicators  
During the three months ended November 30, 2018, the increase in days in accounts receivable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to an increase in accounts receivable primarily driven by the amended and new securitization programs and higher sales and timing of collections.  
In connection with the adoption of ASU 2014-09, days in inventory are calculated based on inventory and contract asset balances for the three months ended November 30, 2018. During the three months ended November 30, 2018, days in inventory increased from the prior sequential quarter to support expected sales levels in the second quarter of fiscal year 2019. During the three months ended August 31, 2018 and May 31, 2018, the decrease in days in inventory from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to increased sales activity during the quarter.  
During the three months ended August 31, 2018, the increase in days in accounts payable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to higher materials purchases during the quarter and the timing of purchases and cash payments for purchases during the quarter. During the three months ended May 31, 2018, the decrease in days in accounts payable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to the timing of purchases and cash payments for purchases during the quarter.  
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  
Revenue Recognition  
Effective September 1, 2018, our revenue recognition accounting policies changed in conjunction with the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard. Upon adoption, we recognize revenue over time as manufacturing services are completed for the majority of our contracts with customers, which results in revenue being recognized earlier than under the previous guidance. Revenue for all other contracts with customers will be recognized at a point in time, upon transfer of control of the product to the customer, which is effectively no change to our historical accounting. For further discussion of the new revenue recognition standard, refer to Note 16—“Revenue” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.  
Recent Accounting Pronouncements  
See Note 14 – “New Accounting Guidance” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recent accounting guidance.  
Net Revenue  
Net revenue increased during the three months ended November 30, 2018, compared to the three months ended November 30, 2017. Specifically, the DMS segment revenues increased 10% due to (i) a 6% increase in revenues from customers within our mobility business as a result of increased end user product demand and (ii) a 4% increase in revenues from existing customers in our healthcare business. EMS segment revenues increased 22% primarily due to (i) a 11% increase in revenues from customers within our networking and telecommunications business, (ii) a 9% increase in revenues from existing customers within our industrial and energy business, (iii) a 4% increase in revenues for customers within our computing and storage business and (iv) a 4% increase in revenues for customers within our printing business. The increase is partially offset by (i) a 4% decrease in revenue for customers within our digital home business and (ii) a 2% decrease in revenues spread across various industries within the EMS segment.  
Effective September 1, 2018, our revenue recognition accounting policies changed in conjunction with the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard. Upon adoption, we recognize revenue over time as manufacturing services are completed for the majority of our contracts with customers, which results in revenue being recognized earlier than under the previous guidance. Revenue for all other contracts with customers will be recognized at a point in time, upon transfer of control of the product to the customer, which is effectively no change to our historical accounting. For further discussion of the new revenue recognition standard, refer to Note 16—“Revenue” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.  
Gross profit decreased as a percent of net revenue during the three months ended November 30, 2018, compared to the three months ended November 30, 2017, primarily due to higher costs in our capital equipment business and ramp costs associated with new business awards in our EMS segment.  
Selling, General and Administrative  
Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased during the three months ended November 30, 2018, compared to the three months ended November 30, 2017. The decrease is primarily due to an additional $32.4 million of stock-based compensation expense recognized during the three months ended November 30, 2017 as a result of the modification of certain performance-based restricted stock awards and a one-time cash-settled award. The decrease is partially offset by (i) an increase in salary and salary related expenses and other costs to support new business growth and development and (ii) $8.9 million in acquisition and integration charges related to our strategic collaboration with a healthcare company.  
Research and Development  
Research and development expenses remained consistent as a percentage of net revenue during the three months ended November 30, 2018, compared to the three months ended November 30, 2017.  
Amortization of intangibles decreased during the three months ended November 30, 2018, compared to the three months ended November 30, 2017, primarily due to intangible assets related to the Nypro acquisition, which were fully amortized during fiscal year 2018.  
Restructuring and Related Charges  
Includes $4.4 million and $5.9 million recorded in the EMS segment, $1.6 million and $4.6 million recorded in the DMS segment and $0.0 million and $0.9 million of non-allocated charges for the three months ended November 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Except for asset write-off costs, all restructuring and related charges are cash costs.  
On September 15, 2016, our Board of Directors formally approved a restructuring plan to better align our global capacity and administrative support infrastructure to further optimize organizational effectiveness. This action includes headcount reductions across our selling, general and administrative cost base and capacity realignment in higher cost locations (the “2017 Restructuring Plan”).  
See Note 12 – “Restructuring and Related Charges” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of restructuring and related charges for the 2017 Restructuring Plan.  
Other Expense  
Interest Income  
Interest income increased during the three months ended November 30, 2018, compared to the three months ended November 30, 2017, due to higher interest rates.  
Interest Expense  
Interest expense increased during the three months ended November 30, 2018, compared to the three months ended November 30, 2017, due to additional borrowings on our credit facilities and higher interest rates.  
Non-GAAP (Core) Financial Measures  
Charges, net of insurance proceeds of $2.9 million and $10.3 million for the three months ended November 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, relate to business interruptions and asset impairment costs associated with damage from Hurricane Maria, which impacted our operations in Cayey, Puerto Rico.  
Charges related to our strategic collaboration with a healthcare company.  
The average is based on the addition of the account balance at the end of the most recently-ended quarter to the account balance at the end of the prior quarter and dividing by two.  
Acquisitions and Expansion  
Seasonality  
As of November 30, 2018, we had approximately $804.4 million in cash and cash equivalents. As our growth remains predominantly outside of the United States, a significant portion of such cash and cash equivalents are held by our foreign subsidiaries.  
We have a shelf registration statement with the SEC registering the potential sale of an indeterminate amount of debt and equity securities in the future to augment our liquidity and capital resources.  
Asset-Backed Securitization and Trade Accounts Receivable Sale Programs  
We continuously sell designated pools of trade accounts receivable under our foreign asset-backed securitization program to a special purpose entity, which in turn sells certain of the receivables to an unaffiliated financial institution and a conduit administered by an unaffiliated financial institution on a monthly basis. Effective October 1, 2018, the foreign asset-backed securitization program terms were amended and the program was extended to September 30, 2021. In connection with this amendment, there is no longer a deferred purchase price receivable for the foreign asset-backed securitization program as the entire purchase price is paid in cash when the receivables are sold.  
As of October 1, 2018, approximately $734.2 million of accounts receivable sold under the foreign asset-backed securitization program was exchanged for the outstanding deferred purchase price receivable of $335.5 million. The remaining amount due to the financial institution of $398.7 million was subsequently settled for $25.2 million of cash and $373.5 million of trade accounts receivable sold to the financial institution. Prior to the amendment, any portion of the purchase price for the receivables not paid in cash upon the sale occurring was recorded as a deferred purchase price receivable, which was paid from available cash as payments on the receivables were collected.  
The North American asset-backed securitization program was terminated on October 9, 2018 and as of this date approximately $500.0 million of accounts receivable sold under the program was exchanged for the outstanding deferred purchase price receivable of $300.0 million and $200.0 million of cash. The previously sold trade accounts receivable were recorded at fair market value.  
On November 27, 2018, we entered into a new North American asset-backed securitization program. We continuously sell designated pools of trade accounts receivable under our new North American asset-backed securitization program to a special purpose entity, which in turn sells certain of the receivables to conduits administered by unaffiliated financial institutions on a monthly basis. There is no longer a deferred purchase price receivable for the North American asset-backed securitization program as the entire purchase price is paid in cash when the receivables are sold. Additionally, certain receivables are pledged as collateral to the unaffiliated financial institution.  
Trade Accounts Receivable Sale Programs  
The maximum amount under the program will reduce to $650.0 million on February 1, 2019.  
Any party may elect to terminate the agreement upon 15 days prior notice.  
The program will automatically extend for one year at each expiration date unless either party provides 10 days notice of termination.  
Any party may elect to terminate the agreement upon 30 days prior notice.  
The program will be automatically extended through January 25, 2023 unless either party provides 30 days notice of termination.  
The program will be automatically extended through August 10, 2023 unless either party provides 30 days notice of termination.  
The program will be automatically extended through August 21, 2023 unless either party provides 30 days notice of termination.  
During the three months ended November 30, 2018, we sold $1.8 billion of trade accounts receivable under these programs and we received cash proceeds of $1.8 billion. As of November 30, 2018, we had up to $322.1 million in available liquidity under our trade accounts receivable sale programs.  
Capital Expenditures  
Operating Activities  
Net cash used in operating activities during the three months ended November 30, 2018 was primarily due to increased contract assets and accounts receivable, partially offset by increased accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities and decreased inventories. The increase in contract assets is due to the adoption of ASU 2014-09 and the timing of revenue recognition for over time customers. The increase in accounts receivable is primarily driven by the amended and new securitization programs and higher sales and timing of collections. The increase in accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities is primarily due to the timing of collections on accounts receivable sold under the securitization programs, an increase in materials purchases due to increased demand in the mobility business and the timing of purchases and cash payments. The decrease in inventories is primarily due to the adoption of ASU 2014-09 and the reclassification to contract assets for revenue recognized for over time customers, partially offset by an increase to support expected sales levels in the second quarter of fiscal year 2019.  
Investing Activities  
Net cash used in investing activities during the three months ended November 30, 2018 consisted primarily of capital expenditures principally to support ongoing business in the DMS and EMS segments, partially offset by cash receipts on sold receivables under the asset-backed securitization programs.  
Financing Activities  
Dividends and Share Repurchases  
In June 2018, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $350.0 million of our common stock (the “2018 Share Repurchase Program”). This authorization expires on August 31, 2019. As of November 30, 2018, 7.9 million shares had been repurchased for $204.5 million and $145.5 million remains available under the 2018 Share Repurchase Program.  
Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds  
In June 2018, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $350.0 million of our common stock as publicly announced in a press release issued on June 14, 2018. The share repurchase program expires on August 31, 2019.  
