 Item 2.  
Overview  
We serve our customers primarily through dedicated business units that combine highly automated, continuous flow manufacturing with advanced electronic design and design for manufacturability. We depend, and expect to continue to depend, upon a relatively small number of customers for a significant percentage of our net revenue, which in turn depends upon their growth, viability and financial stability. Based on net revenue for the nine months ended May 31, 2019, our largest customers include Amazon.com, Inc., Apple, Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc., GoPro, Inc., Hewlett-Packard Company, Ingenico Group, Keysight Technologies, LM Ericsson Telephone Company, NetApp, Inc., and Nokia Networks.  
Summary of Results  
Key Performance Indicators  
During the three months ended November 30, 2018, the increase in days in accounts receivable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to an increase in accounts receivable primarily driven by the amended and new securitization programs and higher sales and timing of collections.  
During the three months ended May 31, 2019, the decrease in days in accounts payable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to timing of purchases and cash payments for purchases during the quarter. During the three months ended February 28, 2019, the decrease in days in accounts payable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to lower materials purchases during the quarter and timing of purchases and cash payments for purchases during the quarter.  
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  
Revenue Recognition  
Effective September 1, 2018, our revenue recognition accounting policies changed in conjunction with the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard. Upon adoption, we recognize revenue over time as manufacturing services are completed for the majority of our contracts with customers, which results in revenue being recognized earlier than under the previous guidance. Revenue for all other contracts with customers will be recognized at a point in time, upon transfer of control of the product to the customer, which is effectively no change to our historical accounting. For further discussion of the new revenue recognition standard, refer to Note 16 — “Revenue” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.  
Recent Accounting Pronouncements  
See Note 14 – “New Accounting Guidance” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recent accounting guidance.  
Net Revenue  
Net revenue increased during the nine months ended May 31, 2019, compared to the nine months ended May 31, 2018. Specifically, the EMS segment revenues increased 27% primarily due to (i) a 9% increase in revenues from customers within our networking and telecommunications business, (ii) a 9% increase in revenues from new customers within our cloud business, (iii) a 9% increase in revenues from existing customers within our industrial and energy business and (iv) a 5% increase in revenues from existing customers within our print and retail business. The increase is partially offset by a 5% decrease from existing customers within our computing and storage business and capital equipment business. DMS segment revenues remained consistent due to a 6% increase in revenues from existing customers in our healthcare business. The increase is offset by a 6% decrease in revenue from customers within our mobility business as a result of decreased end user product demand.  
Effective September 1, 2018, our revenue recognition accounting policies changed in conjunction with the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard. Upon adoption, we recognize revenue over time as manufacturing services are completed for the majority of our contracts with customers, which results in revenue being recognized earlier than under the previous guidance. Revenue for all other contracts with customers will be recognized at a point in time, upon transfer of control of the product to the customer, which is effectively no change to our historical accounting. For further discussion of the new revenue recognition standard, refer to Note 16 — “Revenue” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.  
For the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2019, gross profit for our DMS segment increased as a percentage of net revenue due to improved profitability across the various businesses. This increase was offset by a decrease in gross profit as a percentage of net revenue in our EMS segment due to continued weakness in the capital equipment business and ramp costs associated with new business awards. As a result, gross profit remained relatively consistent as a percentage of net revenue during the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2019, compared to the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2018.  
Selling, General and Administrative  
Selling, general and administrative expenses increased during the nine months ended May 31, 2019, compared to the nine months ended May 31, 2018. The increase is predominantly due to (i) a $42.6 million increase in salary and salary related expenses and other costs primarily to support new business growth and development and (ii) $35.1 million in acquisition and integration charges related to our strategic collaboration with a healthcare company. The increase is partially offset by an additional $32.4 million of stock-based compensation expense recognized during the nine months ended May 31, 2018 as a result of the one-time modification of certain performance-based restricted stock unit awards and a one-time cash-settled award.  
Research and Development  
Research and development expenses remained consistent as a percentage of net revenue during the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2019, compared to the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2018.  
Amortization of intangibles decreased during the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2019, compared to the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2018, primarily due to intangible assets related to the Nypro acquisition, which were fully amortized during fiscal year 2018.  
Restructuring and Related Charges  
Includes $7.6 million and $4.6 million recorded in the EMS segment, $0.0 million and $5.8 million recorded in the DMS segment and $1.7 million and $2.2 million of non-allocated charges for the three months ended May 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Includes $12.3 million and $12.6 million recorded in the EMS segment, $2.1 million and $13.8 million recorded in the DMS segment and $1.8 million and $3.1 million of non-allocated charges for the nine months ended May 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Except for asset write-off costs, all restructuring and related charges are cash costs.  
On September 15, 2016, our Board of Directors formally approved a restructuring plan to better align our global capacity and administrative support infrastructure to further optimize organizational effectiveness. This action includes headcount reductions across our selling, general and administrative cost base and capacity realignment in higher cost locations (the “2017 Restructuring Plan”).  
The 2017 Restructuring Plan, totaling $195.0 million in restructuring and other related costs, is substantially complete as of May 31, 2019.  
See Note 12 – “Restructuring and Related Charges” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of restructuring and related charges for the 2017 Restructuring Plan.  
Other Expense  
Other expense increased for the three months ended May 31, 2019, compared to the three months ended May 31, 2018, primarily due to $6.1 million of additional fees associated with the utilization of the foreign and North American asset-backed securitization programs and trade accounts receivable sales programs. This increase was partially offset by $2.1 million of other expense.  
Interest Income  
Interest income increased during the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2019, compared to the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2018, due to increased cash equivalents (investments that are readily convertible to cash with maturity dates of 90 days or less).  
Interest Expense  
The effective tax rate increased for the three months ended May 31, 2019 compared to the three months ended May 31, 2018, primarily due to decreased income in jurisdictions with low tax rates or existing valuation allowances.  
Non-GAAP (Core) Financial Measures  
Charges relate to inventory and other assets charges for a distressed customer.  
Charges, net of insurance proceeds of $5.0 million for the three months ended May 31, 2018, and $2.9 million and $21.4 million for the nine months ended May 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, relate to business interruptions and asset impairment costs associated with damage from Hurricane Maria, which impacted our operations in Cayey, Puerto Rico.  
The tax effect is calculated by applying the core effective tax rate for the three months ended May 31, 2019 and 2018 to core operating income less interest expense.  
The average is based on the addition of the account balance at the end of the most recently-ended quarter to the account balance at the end of the prior quarter and dividing by two.  
On February 25, 2019 and April 29, 2019, under the terms of the Framework Agreement, we completed the initial closing and second closing, respectively, of our acquisition of certain assets of JJMD. The preliminary aggregate purchase price paid for both the initial closing and second closing was approximately $153.2 million in cash, which remains subject to certain post-closing adjustments. The acquisition of the JJMD assets has been accounted for as a business combination using the acquisition method of accounting. Total assets acquired of $163.6 million and total liabilities assumed of $10.4 million were recorded at their estimated fair values as of the acquisition dates. The final closings, which are subject to customary closing conditions, are expected to occur during fiscal year 2020.  
We have a shelf registration statement with the SEC registering the potential sale of an indeterminate amount of debt and equity securities in the future to augment our liquidity and capital resources.  
Asset-Backed Securitization and Trade Accounts Receivable Sale Programs  
We continuously sell designated pools of trade accounts receivable under our foreign asset-backed securitization program to a special purpose entity, which in turn sells certain of the receivables to an unaffiliated financial institution and a conduit administered by an unaffiliated financial institution on a monthly basis. Effective October 1, 2018, the foreign asset-backed securitization program terms were amended and the program was extended to September 30, 2021. In connection with this amendment, there is no longer a deferred purchase price receivable for the foreign asset-backed securitization program as the entire purchase price is paid in cash when the receivables are sold.  
As of October 1, 2018, approximately $734.2 million of accounts receivable sold under the foreign asset-backed securitization program was exchanged for the outstanding deferred purchase price receivable of $335.5 million. The remaining amount due to the financial institution of $398.7 million was subsequently settled for $25.2 million of cash and $373.5 million of trade accounts receivable sold to the financial institution. Prior to the amendment, any portion of the purchase price for the receivables not paid in cash upon the sale occurring was recorded as a deferred purchase price receivable, which was paid from available cash as payments on the receivables were collected. The foreign asset-backed securitization program contains a guarantee of payment by the special purpose entity, in an amount equal to approximately the net cash proceeds under the program. No liability has been recorded for obligations under the guarantee as of May 31, 2019.  
The North American asset-backed securitization program was terminated on October 9, 2018 and as of this date approximately $500.0 million of accounts receivable sold under the program was exchanged for the outstanding deferred purchase price receivable of $300.0 million and $200.0 million of cash. The previously sold trade accounts receivable were recorded at fair market value.  
On November 27, 2018, we entered into a new North American asset-backed securitization program. We continuously sell designated pools of trade accounts receivable under our new North American asset-backed securitization program to a special purpose entity, which in turn sells certain of the receivables to conduits administered by unaffiliated financial institutions on a monthly basis. There is no longer a deferred purchase price receivable for the North American asset-backed securitization program as the entire purchase price is paid in cash when the receivables are sold. Additionally, $204.4 million of receivables are pledged as collateral to the unaffiliated financial institution as of May 31, 2019.  
In connection with our asset-backed securitization programs, during the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2019, we sold $1.0 billion and $2.9 billion, respectively, of trade accounts receivable and we received cash proceeds of $1.0 billion and $2.8 billion, respectively. As of May 31, 2019, we had up to $55.1 million in available liquidity under our asset-backed securitization programs.  
Trade Accounts Receivable Sale Programs  
Any party may elect to terminate the agreement upon 15 days prior notice.  
The program will automatically extend for one year at each expiration date unless either party provides 10 days notice of termination.  
Any party may elect to terminate the agreement upon 30 days prior notice.  
The program will be automatically extended through January 25, 2023 unless either party provides 30 days notice of termination.  
The program will be automatically extended through August 10, 2023 unless either party provides 30 days notice of termination.  
The program will be automatically extended through August 21, 2023 unless either party provides 30 days notice of termination.  
The program will be automatically extended each year through February 28, 2024 unless either party provides 90 days notice of termination.  
The program will be automatically extended each year through April 11, 2025 unless either party provides 30 days notice of termination.  
During the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2019, we sold $1.5 billion and $5.1 billion, respectively, of trade accounts receivable under these programs and we received cash proceeds of $1.5 billion and $5.1 billion, respectively. As of May 31, 2019, we had up to $1.3 billion in available liquidity under our trade accounts receivable sale programs.  
Capital Expenditures  
Operating Activities  
Net cash provided by operating activities during the nine months ended May 31, 2019 was primarily due to decreased inventories, increased accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities and non-cash expenses, partially offset by increased contract assets and accounts receivable. The decrease in inventories is primarily due to the adoption of ASU 2014-09 and the reclassification to contract assets for revenue recognized for over time customers, partially offset by an increase in inventories to support expected sales levels in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2019. The increase in accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities is primarily due to the timing of collections on accounts receivable sold under the securitization programs and the timing of purchases and cash payments. The increase in contract assets is due to the adoption of ASU 2014-09 and the timing of revenue recognition for over time customers. The increase in accounts receivable is primarily driven by the amended and new securitization programs and higher sales and timing of collections.  
Investing Activities  
Net cash used in investing activities during the nine months ended May 31, 2019 consisted primarily of capital expenditures principally to support ongoing business in the DMS and EMS segments and expenditures for assets acquired in connection with the initial and second closings of the acquisition of JJMD, partially offset by proceeds and advances from the sale of property, plant and equipment and cash receipts on sold receivables under the asset-backed securitization programs.  
Financing Activities  
Dividends and Share Repurchases  
In June 2018, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $350.0 million of our common stock (the “2018 Share Repurchase Program”). This authorization expires on August 31, 2019. As of May 31, 2019, the total amount authorized by the Board of Directors had been repurchased.  
Table of Contents 
 Item 2.  
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds  
