1. Basis of Presentation  
2. Earnings Per Share and Dividends  
The Company calculates its basic earnings per share by dividing net income attributable to the Company by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. The Company’s diluted earnings per share is calculated in a similar manner, but includes the effect of dilutive securities. The difference between the weighted average number of basic shares outstanding and the weighted average number of diluted shares outstanding is primarily due to dilutive unvested restricted stock unit awards (“restricted stock units”) and dilutive stock appreciation rights.  
5. Stock-Based Compensation and Share Repurchases  
Represents a one-time cash-settled stock award that vested on November 30, 2017.  
As of February 28, 2019, the shares available to be issued under the 2011 Stock Award and Incentive Plan were 11,933,647.  
In June 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $350.0 million of the Company’s common stock (the “2018 Share Repurchase Program”). The 2018 Share Repurchase Program expires August 31, 2019. As of February 28, 2019, 13.9 million shares had been repurchased for $350.0 million, which utilized the total amount authorized by the Board of Directors.  
Sales of the Company’s products are concentrated among specific customers. During the six months ended February 28, 2019, the Company’s five largest customers accounted for approximately 46% of its net revenue and 78 customers accounted for approximately 90% of its net revenue. Sales to these customers were reported in the Electronics Manufacturing Services (“EMS”) and Diversified Manufacturing Services (“DMS”) operating segments.  
The Company procures components from a broad group of suppliers. Some of the products manufactured by the Company require one or more components that are available from only a single source.  
Charges, net of insurance proceeds of $6.1 million for the three months ended February 28, 2018, and $2.9 million and $16.4 million for the six months ended February 28, 2019 and 2018, respectively, relate to business interruption and asset impairment costs associated with damage from Hurricane Maria, which impacted our operations in Cayey, Puerto Rico.  
As of February 28, 2019, the Company operated in 29 countries worldwide. Sales to unaffiliated customers are based on the Company’s location that maintains the customer relationship and transacts the external sale.  
7. Notes Payable and Long-Term Debt  
As of February 28, 2019, the Company has $2.2 billion in available unused borrowing capacity under its revolving credit facilities.  
The estimated fair values of the Company’s publicly traded debt, including the 5.625%, 4.700% and 3.950% Senior Notes, were approximately $410.5 million, $508.0 million and $463.3 million, respectively, as of February 28, 2019. The fair value estimates are based upon observable market data (Level 2 criteria). The estimated fair value of the Company’s private debt, the 4.900% Senior Notes, was approximately $304.6 million, as of February 28, 2019. This fair value estimate is based on the Company’s indicative borrowing cost derived from discounted cash flows (Level 3 criteria). The carrying amounts of borrowings under credit facilities and under loans approximate fair value as interest rates on these instruments approximate current market rates.  
8. Trade Accounts Receivable Securitization and Sale Programs  
The Company regularly sells designated pools of trade accounts receivable under a foreign asset-backed securitization program, a North American asset-back securitization program and uncommitted trade accounts receivable sale programs (collectively referred to herein as the “programs”). The Company continues servicing the receivables sold and in exchange receives a servicing fee under each of the programs. Servicing fees related to each of the programs recognized during the three months and six months ended February 28, 2019 and 2018 were not material. The Company does not record a servicing asset or liability on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as the Company estimates that the fee it receives to service these receivables approximates the fair market compensation to provide the servicing activities.  
Transfers of the receivables under the programs are accounted for as sales and, accordingly, net receivables sold under the programs are excluded from accounts receivable on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and are reflected as cash provided by operating activities on the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. The adoption of Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-15 (“ASU 2016-15”) described in Note 14, New Accounting Guidance, resulted in a reclassification of cash flows from operating activities to investing activities in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for cash receipts related to collections on the deferred purchase price receivable (i.e. beneficial interest) on asset-backed securitization transactions. In addition, the beneficial interest of $162.2 million for the six months ended February 28, 2019, and $366.3 million and $1.1 billion for the three months and six months ended February 28, 2018, respectively, obtained in exchange for securitized receivables are reported as non-cash investing activities.  
The Company continuously sells designated pools of trade accounts receivable under its foreign asset-backed securitization program to a special purpose entity, which in turn sells certain of the receivables to an unaffiliated financial institution and a conduit administered by an unaffiliated financial institution on a monthly basis. Effective October 1, 2018, the foreign asset-backed securitization program terms were amended and the program was extended to September 30, 2021. In connection with this amendment, there is no longer a deferred purchase price receivable for the foreign asset-backed securitization program as the entire purchase price is paid in cash when the receivables are sold.  
As of October 1, 2018, approximately $734.2 million of accounts receivable sold under the foreign asset-backed securitization program was exchanged for the outstanding deferred purchase price receivable of $335.5 million. The remaining amount due to the financial institution of $398.7 million was subsequently settled for $25.2 million of cash and $373.5 million of trade accounts receivable sold to the financial institution. The previously sold trade accounts receivable were recorded at fair market value. Prior to the amendment, any portion of the purchase price for the receivables not paid in cash upon the sale occurring was recorded as a deferred purchase price receivable, which was paid from available cash as payments on the receivables were collected. The foreign asset-backed securitization program contains a guarantee of payment by the special purpose entity, in an amount equal to approximately the net cash proceeds under the program. No liability has been recorded for obligations under the guarantee as of February 28, 2019.  
The special purpose entity in the foreign asset-backed securitization program is a separate bankruptcy-remote entity whose assets would be first available to satisfy the creditor claims of the unaffiliated financial institution. The Company is deemed the primary beneficiary of this special purpose entity as the Company has both the power to direct the activities of the entity that most significantly impact the entity’s economic performance and the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive the benefits that could potentially be significant to the entity from the transfer of the trade accounts receivable into the special purpose entity. Accordingly, the special purpose entity associated with the foreign asset-backed securitization program is included in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.  
The North American asset-backed securitization program was terminated on October 9, 2018 and as of this date approximately $500.0 million of accounts receivable sold under the program was exchanged for the outstanding deferred purchase price receivable of $300.0 million and $200.0 million of cash. The previously sold trade accounts receivable were recorded at fair market value.  
On November 27, 2018, the Company entered into a new North American asset-backed securitization program. The Company continuously sells designated pools of trade accounts receivable under its new North American asset-backed securitization program to a special purpose entity, which in turn sells certain of the receivables to conduits administered by unaffiliated financial institutions on a monthly basis. The special purpose entity in the North American asset-backed securitization program is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company and is included in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. There is no longer a deferred purchase price receivable for the North American asset-backed securitization program as the entire purchase price is paid in cash when the receivables are sold. Additionally, $197.0 million in receivables are pledged as collateral to the unaffiliated financial institution as of February 28, 2019.  
Recorded to other expense within the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.  
Recorded initially at fair value as prepaid expenses and other current assets on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and are valued using unobservable inputs (Level 3 inputs), primarily discounted cash flows, and due to their credit quality and short-term maturity the fair values approximated book values. The unobservable inputs consist of estimated credit losses and estimated discount rates, which both have an immaterial impact on the fair value calculations.  
The asset-backed securitization programs require compliance with several covenants. The North American asset-based securitization program covenants include compliance with the interest ratio and debt to EBITDA ratio of the Credit Facility. The foreign asset-backed securitization program covenants include limitations on certain corporate actions such as mergers and consolidations. As of February 28, 2019 and August 31, 2018, the Company was in compliance with all covenants under the asset-backed securitization programs.  
Any party may elect to terminate the agreement upon 15 days prior notice.  
The program will automatically extend for one year at each expiration date unless either party provides 10 days notice of termination.  
The program will be automatically extended through August 10, 2023 unless either party provides 30 days notice of termination.  
The program will be automatically extended through August 21, 2023 unless either party provides 30 days notice of termination.  
The program will be automatically extended each year through February 23, 2024 unless either party provides 30 days notice of termination.  
Recorded to other expense within the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations.  
9. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income  
Amounts are net of tax, which are immaterial.  
The Company expects to reclassify $5.9 million into earnings during the next twelve months, which will primarily be classified as a component of cost of revenue.  
Amounts are net of tax, which are immaterial for the three months and six months ended February 28, 2019. The amounts for the three months and six months ended February 28, 2018, include a reduction to income tax expense related to derivative instruments of $3.5 million and $7.0 million, respectively.  
11. Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities  
Forward contracts are put in place to manage the foreign currency risk associated with the anticipated foreign currency denominated revenues and expenses. A hedging relationship existed with an aggregate notional amount outstanding of $251.7 million and $293.4 million as of February 28, 2019 and August 31, 2018, respectively. The related forward foreign exchange contracts have been designated as hedging instruments and are accounted for as cash flow hedges. The forward foreign exchange contract transactions will effectively lock in the value of anticipated foreign currency denominated revenues and expenses against foreign currency fluctuations. The anticipated foreign currency denominated revenues and expenses being hedged are expected to occur between March 1, 2019 and November 30, 2019.  
In addition to derivatives that are designated as hedging instruments and qualify for hedge accounting, the Company also enters into forward contracts to economically hedge transactional exposure associated with commitments arising from trade accounts receivable, trade accounts payable, fixed purchase obligations and intercompany transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the respective operating entity. The aggregate notional amount of these outstanding contracts as of February 28, 2019 and August 31, 2018, was $3.9 billion and $3.4 billion, respectively.  
The Company’s forward foreign exchange contracts are measured on a recurring basis at fair value, based on foreign currency spot rates and forward rates quoted by banks or foreign currency dealers.  
For the three months and six months ended February 28, 2019, the Company recognized $57.1 million and $52.6 million, respectively, of foreign currency losses in cost of revenue, which are offset by the gains from the forward foreign exchange contracts. During the three months and six months ended February 28, 2018, the Company recognized $41.7 million and $35.5 million, respectively, of foreign currency losses in cost of revenue, which are offset by the gains from the forward foreign exchange contracts.  
The Company periodically enters into interest rate swaps to manage interest rate risk associated with the Company’s borrowings.  
During fiscal year 2018, the Company entered into interest rate swap transactions to hedge the variable interest rate payments for the $350.0 million Term Loan Facility which expires on August 24, 2020 (the “2018 Term Loan Facility”). In connection with this transaction, the Company pays interest based upon a fixed rate as agreed upon with the respective counterparties and receives variable rate interest payments based on the three-month LIBOR. The interest rate swaps have an aggregate notional amount of $350.0 million and have been designated as hedging instruments and accounted for as cash flow hedges. The interest rate swaps were effective on August 24, 2018 and are scheduled to expire on August 24, 2020. The contracts will be settled with the respective counterparties on a net basis at each settlement date.  
During fiscal year 2016, the Company entered into interest rate swap transactions to hedge the variable interest rate payments for the 2017 Term Loan Facility. In connection with this transaction, the Company pays interest based upon a fixed rate as agreed upon with the respective counterparties and receives variable rate interest payments based on the one-month LIBOR. The interest rate swaps have an aggregate notional amount of $200.0 million and have been designated as hedging instruments and accounted for as cash flow hedges. The interest rate swaps were effective on September 30, 2016 and are scheduled to expire on June 30, 2019. The contracts will be settled with the respective counterparties on a net basis at each settlement date.  
During fiscal year 2016, the Company entered into forward interest rate swap transactions to hedge the fixed interest rate payments for an anticipated debt issuance (the 3.950% Senior Notes). The swaps were accounted for as a cash flow hedge and had a notional amount of $200.0 million. Concurrently with the pricing of the 3.950% Senior Notes in the second quarter of fiscal year 2018, the Company settled the swaps. The fair value of the cash received for the swaps at settlement was $17.2 million. The effective portion of the swaps is recorded in the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets as a component of AOCI and is amortized as a reduction to interest expense in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Operations through January 2028.  
12. Restructuring and Related Charges  
Includes $0.3 million and $2.1 million recorded in the EMS segment and $0.5 million and $3.3 million recorded in the DMS segment for the three months ended February 28, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Includes $4.7 million and $8.0 million recorded in the EMS segment, $2.1 million and $7.9 million recorded to the DMS segment and $0.0 million and $0.9 million of non-allocated charges for the six months ended February 28, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Except for asset write-off costs, all restructuring and related charges are cash costs.  
On September 15, 2016, the Company’s Board of Directors formally approved a restructuring plan to better align the Company’s global capacity and administrative support infrastructure to further optimize organizational effectiveness. This action includes headcount reductions across the Company’s selling, general and administrative cost base and capacity realignment in higher cost locations (the “2017 Restructuring Plan”).  
Upon completion of the 2017 Restructuring Plan, the Company expects to recognize approximately $195.0 million in restructuring and other related costs. The Company has incurred $187.1 million in costs-to-date as of February 28, 2019.  
On February 25, 2019, under the terms of the Framework Agreement, the Company completed the initial closing of its acquisition of certain assets of JJMD for approximately $80.8 million in cash, which remains subject to certain post-closing adjustments. The acquisition of the JJMD assets has been accounted for as a business combination using the acquisition method of accounting. Assets acquired of $97.8 million and liabilities assumed of $17.0 million were recorded at their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date. The two subsequent closings, which are subject to customary closing conditions, are expected to occur during the second half of fiscal year 2019 and fiscal year 2020.  
On September 1, 2017, the Company completed the acquisition of True-Tech Corporation (“True-Tech”) for approximately $95.9 million in cash. True-Tech is a manufacturer specializing in aerospace, semiconductor and medical machined components.  
The acquisition of True-Tech assets was accounted for as a business combination using the acquisition method of accounting. Assets acquired of $114.7 million, including $25.9 million in intangible assets and $22.6 million in goodwill, and liabilities assumed of $18.8 million were recorded at their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the acquired assets and assumed liabilities was recorded to goodwill and was fully allocated to the EMS segment. The majority of the goodwill is currently expected to be deductible for income tax purposes. The results of operations were included in the Company’s condensed consolidated financial results beginning on September 1, 2017. Pro forma information has not been provided as the acquisition of True-Tech is not deemed to be significant.  
14. New Accounting Guidance  
During fiscal year 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued an accounting standard, which is a comprehensive new revenue recognition model that requires a company to recognize revenue to depict the transfer of goods or services to a customer at an amount that reflects the consideration it expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services. The accounting standard became effective for the Company in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019. The Company implemented changes to its processes, policies and internal controls to meet the impact of the new standard and disclosure requirements. Refer to Note 16 – “Revenue” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further details.  
During fiscal year 2016, the FASB issued a new accounting standard to address the presentation of certain transactions within the statement of cash flows with the objective of reducing the existing diversity in practice. This standard was adopted on September 1, 2018 on a retrospective basis and resulted in a reclassification of cash flows from operating activities to investing activities in the Company’s Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for cash receipts related to collections on the deferred purchase price receivable on asset-backed securitization transactions. The increase in cash flow from investing activities and the corresponding decrease to cash flow from operating activities upon adoption of the standard was $96.8 million and $1.2 billion for the six months ended February 28, 2019 and 2018, respectively.  
During fiscal year 2017, the FASB issued a new accounting standard to improve the accounting for the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory. The new standard eliminates the exception for an intra-entity transfer of an asset other than inventory and requires an entity to recognize the income tax consequences when the transfer occurs. This guidance became effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019. This guidance was adopted on a modified retrospective basis and an immaterial cumulative-effect adjustment was recorded, which reduced retained earnings as of September 1, 2018.  
During fiscal year 2017, the FASB issued a new accounting standard to improve the presentation of net periodic pension benefit cost. The Company adopted the standard on September 1, 2018 on a retrospective basis which results in reclassifications for the service cost component of net periodic benefit cost from selling, general and administrative expense to cost of revenue and for the other components from selling, general and administrative expense to other expense. Prior periods have not been reclassified due to immateriality.  
During fiscal year 2016, the FASB issued a new accounting standard revising lease accounting. The new guidance requires organizations to recognize lease assets and lease liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet and disclose key information regarding leasing arrangements. This guidance is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020. Early application of the new standard is permitted and the standard must be adopted using a modified retrospective approach. In preparation for the adoption, the Company is implementing a new lease accounting system. The adoption of this standard will impact the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet. The Company is currently evaluating practical expedients and accounting policy elections, and assessing overall impacts this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements.  
During fiscal year 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard, which replaces the existing incurred loss impairment methodology with a methodology that reflects expected credit losses and requires consideration of a broader range of reasonable and supportable information to inform credit loss estimates. This guidance is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021 and early adoption is permitted beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020. This guidance must be applied using a modified retrospective or prospective transition method, depending on the area covered by this accounting standard. The Company is currently assessing the impact this new standard may have on its Consolidated Financial Statements.  
During fiscal year 2018, the FASB issued a new accounting standard which aligns the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software. This guidance is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021, with early adoption permitted. The Company is currently assessing the impact this new standard may have on its Consolidated Financial Statements.  
Recently issued accounting guidance not discussed above is not applicable or did not have, or is not expected to have, a material impact to the Company.  
During the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, the Company elected to record the Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income effects as a period cost.  
Effective September 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASU 2014-09, Revenue Recognition (Topic 606). The new standard is a comprehensive new revenue recognition model that requires the Company to recognize revenue in a manner which depicts the transfer of goods or services to its customers at an amount that reflects the consideration the Company expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services.  
Prior to the adoption of the new standard, the Company recognized substantially all of its revenue from contracts with customers at a point in time, which was generally when the goods were shipped to or received by the customer, title and risk of ownership had passed, the price to the buyer was fixed or determinable and collectability was reasonably assured (net of estimated returns). Under the new standard, the Company will recognize revenue over time for the majority of its contracts with customers which will result in revenue for those customers being recognized earlier than under the previous guidance. Revenue for all other contracts with customers will continue to be recognized at a point in time, similar to recognition prior to the adoption of the standard.  
Additionally, the new standard impacts the Company’s accounting for certain fulfillment costs, which include upfront costs to prepare for manufacturing activities that are expected to be recovered. Under the new standard, such upfront costs will be recognized as an asset and amortized on a systematic basis consistent with the pattern of the transfer of control of the products or services to which to the asset relates.  
Included within accrued expenses on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.  
Differences included in contract liabilities as of September 1, 2018.  
The Company is one of the leading providers of worldwide manufacturing services and solutions. The Company provides comprehensive electronics design, production and product management services to companies in various industries and end markets. The Company derives substantially all of its revenue from production and product management services (collectively referred to as “manufacturing services”), which encompasses the act of producing tangible products that are built to customer specifications, which are then provided to the customer.  
The Company also derives revenue to a lesser extent from electronic design services to certain customers. Revenue from electronic design services is generally recognized over time as the services are performed.  
For the Company’s over time customers, it believes the measure of progress which best depicts the transfer of control is based on costs incurred to date, relative to total estimated cost at completion (i.e., an input method). This method is a faithful depiction of the transfer of goods or services because it results in the recognition of revenue on the basis of our to-date efforts in the satisfaction of a performance obligation relative to the total expected efforts in the satisfaction of the performance obligation. The Company believes that the use of an input method best depicts the transfer of control to the customer, which occurs as we incur costs on our contracts. The transaction price of each performance obligation is generally based upon the contractual stand-alone selling price of the product or service.  
Included within accrued expenses on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.  
Differences included in contract liabilities as of September 1, 2018.  
Differences primarily relate to the timing of revenue recognition for over-time customers and to the recovery of fulfillment costs.  
Differences primarily relate to the timing of cost recognition for over-time customers and the recognition of fulfillment costs.  
Timing of revenue recognition may differ from the timing of invoicing to customers. The Company records an asset when revenue is recognized prior to invoicing a customer (“contract assets”) while a liability is recognized when a customer pays an invoice prior to the Company transferring control of the goods or services (“contract liabilities”). Amounts recognized as contract assets are generally transferred to receivables in the succeeding quarter due to the short-term nature of the manufacturing cycle. Contract assets are classified separately on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and transferred to receivables when right to payment becomes unconditional.  
The Company reviews contract assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable after considering factors such as the age of the balances and the financial stability of the customer. No impairment costs related to contract assets were recognized during the six months ended February 28, 2019.  
Revenue recognized during the six months ended February 28, 2019 that was included in the contract liability balance as of September 1, 2018 was $267.0 million.  
The Company capitalizes costs incurred to fulfill its contracts that i) relate directly to the contract or anticipated contracts, ii) are expected to generate or enhance the Company’s resources that will be used to satisfy the performance obligation under the contract, and iii) are expected to be recovered through revenue generated from the contract. Prior to the adoption of the new guidance, unless explicit reimbursement contracts existed, these costs were expensed as incurred. Capitalized fulfillment costs  
The Company applied the practical expedient and did not disclose the value of unsatisfied performance obligations for contracts with an original expected length of one year or less.  
 Item 1A.  
