The Company has the ability, if necessary, to liquidate its investments in order to meet the Company’s liquidity needs in the next 12 months.
We Depend on Creating New Products and Processes and Enhancing Existing Products and Processes for Our Success.
Protecting our key proprietary technology helps us to achieve our goals of developing technological expertise and new products and systems that give us a competitive advantage; increasing market penetration and growth of our installed base; and providing comprehensive support and service to our customers.
Non-U.S. sales, as reflected in Part 1 Item 1. Business, accounted for approximately 95%, 93%, and 92% of total revenue in the three months ended September 23, 2018 and fiscal years 2018, and 2017, respectively.
Outsource providers and component suppliers have played and will continue to play a key role in our manufacturing operations, field installation and support, and many of our transactional and administrative functions, such as information technology, facilities management, and certain elements of our finance organization.
In the face of uncertainty on which technology solutions will become successful, we will need to focus our efforts on developing the technology changes that are ultimately successful in supporting our customer requirements.
Accordingly, we expect it to be more difficult to sell our products to a given customer if that customer initially selects a competitor’s equipment for the same product line application.
•a failure to release new or enhanced versions of our products on a timely basis.
The industry environment has moved toward being more characterized by variability across segments and customers accentuated by consolidation within the industry.
From time to time, in the normal course of business, we indemnify third parties with whom we enter into contractual relationships, including customers and suppliers, with respect to certain matters.
During periods of rapid growth or decline in demand for our products and services, we face significant challenges in maintaining adequate financial and business controls, management processes, information systems, and procedures for training, assimilating, and managing our workforce, and in appropriately sizing our supply chain infrastructure and facilities, work force, and other components of our business on a timely basis.In the September 2018 quarter, revenue decreased compared to the June 2018 quarter primarily as a result of lower customer demand during the quarter.
We aim to increase our strategic relevance with our customers by contributing more to their continued success.
Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof and are based on information currently and reasonably known to us.We believe that our future success depends in part upon our ability to develop and offer new products with improved capabilities and to continue to enhance our existing products.
We also face risks of claims arising from commercial and other relationships.
We Depend on Creating New Products and Processes and Enhancing Existing Products and Processes for Our Success.
Protecting our key proprietary technology helps us to achieve our goals of developing technological expertise and new products and systems that give us a competitive advantage; increasing market penetration and growth of our installed base; and providing comprehensive support and service to our customers.
Non-U.S. sales, as reflected in Part 1 Item 1. Business, accounted for approximately 95%, 93%, and 92% of total revenue in the three months ended September 23, 2018 and fiscal years 2018, and 2017, respectively.