The Company has the ability, if necessary, to liquidate its investments in order to meet the Company’s liquidity needs in the next 12 months.
We Depend on Creating New Products and Processes and Enhancing Existing Products and Processes for Our Success.
Protecting our key proprietary technology helps us to achieve our goals of developing technological expertise and new products and systems that give us a competitive advantage; increasing market penetration and growth of our installed base; and providing comprehensive support and service to our customers.
Outsource providers and component suppliers have played and will continue to play a key role in our manufacturing operations, field installation and support, and many of our transactional and administrative functions, such as information technology, facilities management, and certain elements of our finance organization.
Non-U.S. sales, as reflected in Part 1 Item 1. Business, accounted for approximately 91%, 92%, and 92% of total revenue in the six months ended December 24, 2017 and fiscal years 2017, and 2016, respectively.
In the face of uncertainty on which technology solutions will become successful, we will need to focus our efforts on developing the technology changes that are ultimately successful in supporting our customer requirements.
•a failure to release new or enhanced versions of our products on a timely basis.
•impairing our ability to obtain additional financing in the future.
During the three and six months ended December 24, 2017 the note hedge was partially settled, resulting in the receipt of approximately 367,000 and 2,459,000 shares, respectively.
The industry environment has moved toward being more characterized by variability across segments and customers accentuated by consolidation within the industry.We aim to increase our strategic relevance with our customers by contributing more to their continued success.
Interest income increased in the six months ended December 2017 compared to the six months ended December 2016 as a result of an increase in yield and longer portfolio duration.
Gross margin as a percentage of revenue in the December 2017 quarter increased as compared to the September 2017 quarter primarily due to favorable customer and product mix.We believe that our future success depends in part upon our ability to develop and offer new products with improved capabilities and to continue to enhance our existing products.
We also face risks of claims arising from commercial and other relationships.
We Depend on Creating New Products and Processes and Enhancing Existing Products and Processes for Our Success.
Protecting our key proprietary technology helps us to achieve our goals of developing technological expertise and new products and systems that give us a competitive advantage; increasing market penetration and growth of our installed base; and providing comprehensive support and service to our customers.