Item 4.
Controls and Procedures.
Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures

Our management, with the participation of our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of June 28, 2019.
The term “disclosure controls and procedures,” as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act, means controls and other procedures of a company that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms.
Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the company’s management, including its principal executive and principal financial officers, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives and management necessarily applies its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures.
Based on management’s evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of June 28, 2019, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer concluded that, as of such date, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective at the reasonable assurance level.
Changes in internal control over financial reporting 

There are no changes to our internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) of the Exchange Act) that occurred during the period covered by this report that have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
Legal Proceedings.
From time to time, various lawsuits, claims and proceedings have been, and may in the future be, instituted or asserted against the Company, including those pertaining to patent infringement, intellectual property, environmental hazards, product liability and warranty, safety and health, employment and contractual matters.
The semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights.
From time to time, third parties have asserted and may in the future assert patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to the Company’s business and have demanded and may in the future demand that the Company license their technology.
The outcome of any such litigation cannot be predicted with certainty and some such lawsuits, claims or proceedings may be disposed of unfavorably to the Company.
Generally speaking, intellectual property disputes often have a risk of injunctive relief, which, if imposed against the Company, could materially and adversely affect the Company’s financial condition, or results of operations.
From time to time the Company may also be involved in legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors.
In addition to the other information set forth in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, you should carefully consider the factors discussed in Part I, Item 1A Risk Factors in the 2018 10-K, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results.
Except as set forth below, there have been no material changes from the risk factors previously disclosed in the 2018 10-K.

We are subject to the risks of doing business internationally.
A substantial majority of our net revenue is derived from shipments to customers located outside the United States, primarily in countries located in the Asia-Pacific region and Europe.
In addition, we have suppliers located outside the United States, and third-party packaging, assembly and test facilities and foundries located in the Asia-Pacific region.
Finally, we maintain wafer fabrication facilities in Kadoma, Japan, and Osaka, Japan, as well as packaging, assembly and test facilities in Mexicali, Mexico, and in Singapore.
•currency exchange rate fluctuations, including increases or decreases in commodities prices related to such fluctuations,

•local economic and political conditions, including, but not limited to, social, economic and political instability related to the uncertainty regarding the relationships between the United States and China, Russia, Mexico, North Korea, Middle Eastern countries, other foreign countries, and the international community at large, and related to the United Kingdom’s pending withdrawal from the European Union, 

•labor market conditions and workers’ rights,

•disruptions of capital and trading markets,

•inability to collect accounts receivable,

•restrictive governmental actions (such as restrictions on transfer of funds and trade protection measures, including export duties, quotas, customs duties, border taxes, increased import or export controls and tariffs) that could negatively impact trade between, or increase the cost of operating in, the countries in which we do business,


•natural disasters, acts of terrorism, widespread illness and war,

•unauthorized transfers of our electronic information and breaches of our information systems, as well as the potential lack of adequate remedies in certain jurisdictions,

•difficulty in obtaining distribution and support,

•cultural differences in the conduct of business,

•direct or indirect government actions, subsidies or policies aimed at supporting local industry,

•the laws and policies of the United States and other countries affecting trade, foreign investment and loans, foreign travel, and import or export licensing requirements,

•withdrawal from, or renegotiation of, existing trade agreements by the United States (or other jurisdictions) potentially affecting Mexico, China, and other countries in which we do business,

•changes in current or future tax law or regulations or new interpretations thereof, by federal or state agencies or foreign governments (including changes in certain countries in Europe and elsewhere regarding corporate taxes, transfer pricing, and tax treaty provisions),

•changes in the effective tax rate as a result of our overall profitability and mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates,

•results of audits and examination of previously filed tax returns, 


•limitations on our ability under local laws to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights in a particular foreign jurisdiction, and


Additionally, we are subject to risks in certain global markets in which wireless operators provide subsidies on handset sales to their customers.
Increases in cellular handset prices that negatively impact handset sales can result from changes in regulatory policies or other factors, which could impact the demand for our products.
Limitations or changes in policy on phone subsidies in the United States, South Korea, Japan, China, and other countries may have additional negative impacts on our revenues.
Some of the countries in which we operate and seek to expand are in emerging markets where legal systems may be less developed or familiar to us.
Other jurisdictions in which we conduct business may establish legal and regulatory regimes that differ materially from United States laws and regulations.
Compliance with diverse legal requirements is costly and time-consuming and requires significant resources.
Violations of one or more of these regulations in the conduct of our business could result in significant fines or monetary damages, criminal sanctions against us or our officers, prohibitions on doing business, unfavorable publicity and other reputation damage, restrictions on our ability to process information and allegations by our clients that we have not performed our contractual obligations.
We are particularly exposed to risks of doing business in China.
Although we intend to expand our business and operations in China, our success in the Chinese markets may be adversely affected by China’s continuously evolving laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, currency controls, anti-corruption, environmental regulations, indigenous innovation, and intellectual property rights and enforcement of those rights.
Enforcement of existing laws or agreements may be inconsistent.
In 

addition, changes in the political environment, governmental policies or United States-China relations could result in revisions to laws or regulations or their interpretation and enforcement, exposure of our proprietary intellectual property, increased taxation, restrictions on imports, import duties or currency revaluations, which could have an adverse effect on our business plans and operating results.
In particular, the imposition by the United States of tariffs on goods imported from China or deemed to be of Chinese origin and other government actions that restrict our ability to sell our products to Chinese customers or to manufacture or source components in China, and countermeasures imposed by China in response, could directly or indirectly adversely impact our manufacturing costs and the sales of our products in China and elsewhere.
For example, in May 2019, the U.S. Bureau of Industry and Security of the U.S. Department of Commerce placed Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. and certain of its affiliates on the Bureau’s Entity List, which resulted in our temporarily suspending shipments to Huawei, and which is expected to adversely affect future demand for our products from this customer.
Further, the evolving labor market and increasing labor unrest in China may have a negative impact on our customers, which would result in a negative impact on our business and results of operations.
Finally, China’s stated policy of reducing its dependence on foreign semiconductor manufacturers and other technology companies could result in reduced demand for our products in China and other key markets as well as reduced supply of critical materials for our products.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
Item 6.
Exhibits.
SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
