fls.txt



item1.txt
The Company has reclassified the presentation of certain prior-year information to conform to the current presentation.
The Company included finance lease receivables of $12.8 and $14.4 in other assets as of June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, in the condensed consolidated balance sheets.
The Company recognizes revenue when it satisfies a performance obligation by transferring control over a product or service to a customer.
In certain contracts where services are provided prior to billing, the Company recognizes a contract asset within trade receivables and other current assets.
Third-party freight payments are recorded in cost of sales.
The Company includes a warranty in connection with certain contracts with customers, which are not considered to be separate performance obligations.
The following is a description of principal solutions offered within the Company's two main industry segments that generate the Company's revenue.
For more detailed information about reportable operating segments, see note 20.
The Company provides its banking customers product-related services which include proactive monitoring and rapid resolution of incidents through remote service capabilities or an on-site visit.
First and second line maintenance, preventive maintenance and on-demand services keep the distributed assets of the Company's customers up and running through a standardized incident management process.
Managed services and outsourcing consists of the end-to-end business processes, solution management, upgrades and transaction processing.
The typical contract length for service is generally one year and is billed and paid in advance except for installations, among others.
The Company's hardware-agnostic software applications facilitate millions of transactions via automated teller machines (ATMs), point of sale (POS) terminals, kiosks, and other self-service devices.
For retail customers, the Company provides a comprehensive, modular solution capable of enabling the most advanced omnichannel retail use cases.
The Company's platform software is installed within bank and retail data centers to facilitate omnichannel transactions, endpoint monitoring, remote asset management, customer marketing, merchandise management and analytics.
The Company’s software solution includes its professional services team, who provides systems integration, customization, consulting and project management.
The Company’s advisory services team collaborates with its customers to help define optimal user experience, improve business processes, refine existing staffing models and deploy technology to meet branch and store automation objectives.
The consideration (including any discounts) is allocated between distinct obligations in a bundle based on their stand-alone selling prices.


item2.txt
•Continued to see positive Windows 10 ATM upgrade activity, including an order with a large U.S. regional bank.
•Partnered with Mastercard® on key technology and services agreements to strengthen the company's connected commerce offerings and further bridge physical and digital transactions.
•Secured a three-year frame agreement for branch automation services and systems with a major French bank.
Customers of the Company include nearly all of the world's top 100 financial institutions and a majority of the top 25 global retailers.
The Company refers to these activities collectively as DN Now which is designed to improve its profitability and net leverage.
In order to achieve these savings, the Company has and will continue to restructure the workforce, integrate and optimize systems, streamline legal entities and consolidate real estate holdings.
By executing on these and other operational improvement activities, the Company expects to increase customer satisfaction, provide career enrichment opportunities for employees and enhance value for shareholders.
The Company’s new operating structure is primarily focused on its two main industry segments - Banking and Retail.
For example, the Company offers end-to-end branch and store automation solutions that consist of the complete value chain of consult, design, build and operate.


item3.txt
The Company operates in Argentina through a wholly-owned subsidiary, Diebold Argentina, S.A.


item4.txt



part2.txt



