The Company has reclassified the presentation of certain prior-year information to conform to the current presentation.
The Company recognizes revenue when it satisfies a performance obligation by transferring control over a product or service to a customer.
The Company's payment terms vary depending on the individual contracts and are generally fixed fee.
Third-party freight payments are recorded in cost of sales.
For more detailed information about reportable operating segments, see note 20.
First and second line maintenance, preventive maintenance and on-demand services keep the distributed assets of the Company's customers up and running through a standardized incident management process.
Managed services and outsourcing consists of the end-to-end business processes, solution management, upgrades and transaction processing.
The Company also provides a full array of cash management services, which optimizes the availability and cost of physical currency across the enterprise through efficient forecasting, inventory and replenishment processes.
The typical contract length for service is generally one year and is billed and paid in advance except for installations, among others.
For bundled packages, the Company accounts for individual services separately if they are distinct.
In some circumstances, when global service supply chain services are not included in a term contract and rather billed as they occur, revenue on these billed work services are recognized at a point in time as transfer of control occurs.
The Company provides front-end applications for consumer connection points and back-end platforms that manage channel transactions, operations and integration.
These hardware-agnostic software applications facilitate millions of transactions via automated teller machines (ATMs), point of sale (POS) terminals, kiosks and other self-service devices.In May 2018, the Company announced its plans to build upon the achievements of its integration and transformation program while improving Company profitability and cash flow through relentless focus on our customers, operational excellence and forming a unified culture.
As a result, the Company will be implementing a streamlined operating model with clearer and more consistent spans of control.
To drive towards a singular Diebold Nixdorf culture, the Company will align around a few core characteristics, which reinforce the new priorities.
Collectively, these activities aim to create a more efficient organization with a leaner cost structure that will act quickly in the best interests of the Company's customers.
The Company is at the early stages of defining its roadmap to optimize and support the complete customer lifecycle - identifying an opportunity, contracting, delivering and collecting.
In order to achieve these efficiencies, the Company has and will continue to invest to restructure the workforce, integrate and optimize systems, streamline legal entities and consolidate real estate holdings.