fls.txt



item1.txt
These leases support global staff via the use of office space, warehouses, vehicles for technicians and information technology (IT) equipment.
The Company utilizes both operating and finance leases in its portfolio of leased assets, however, the majority of these leases are classified as operating.
Lease agreements are utilized worldwide, with the largest location concentration in the United States, Germany and India.
The effects of initially applying ASC 842 resulted in no cumulative adjustment to retained earnings in the period of adoption.
•The practical expedient related to land easements is not applicable as the Company currently does not utilize any easements.
The decision to decline the hindsight practical expedient resulted in relying on assessments made under ASC 840 during transition and re-assessing under ASC 842 going forward.
•The Company declined the short-term lease exception, therefore recognizing all leases in the ROU asset and lease liability balances.
•The Company elected to not separate non-lease components from lease components and, instead, to account for each separate lease component and the non-lease components associated with it as a single lease component, recognized on the balance sheet.
Certain lease agreements include payments based on a variety of global indexes or rates.
These payment amounts have been projected using the index or rate as of lease commencement or the transition date and measured in ROU assets and lease liabilities.
For real estate leases, these payments are most often tied to non-committed maintenance or utilities charges, and for equipment leases, to actual output or hours in operation.
These amounts typically become known when the invoice is received, which is when expense is recognized.
As of March 31, 2019, the Company did not have any leases that have not yet commenced but that create significant rights and obligations.
As most leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments.
For leases with large numbers of underlying assets, a portfolio approach with a collateralized rate was utilized.
For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, there were no differences in the earnings (loss) per share amounts calculated under the two methods.
Accordingly, the treasury stock method is disclosed below.


item2.txt
The gross annualized savings target for DN Now is approximately $400 through 2021, of which $160 is anticipated to be realized during 2019.
In order to achieve these savings, the Company has and will continue to restructure the workforce, integrate and optimize systems and processes, transition workloads to lower cost locations and consolidate real estate holdings.
By executing on these and other operational improvement activities, the Company expects to increase customer intimacy and satisfaction, while providing career enrichment opportunities for employees and enhancing value for shareholders.
The Company’s operating structure is focused on its two customer segments - Banking and Retail.
Branch and store automation helps financial institutions and retailers grow revenue, reduce costs, and increase convenience and security for their customers by migrating routine transactions, typically done inside the branch or store, to lower-cost automated channels.
Banking operations are managed within two geographic regions.
The Eurasia region includes the developed economies of Western Europe as well as the emerging economies of Eastern Europe, Asia, the Middle East and Africa.
The Americas region encompasses the United States (U.S.), Canada, Mexico and Latin America.
For banking clients, services represents the largest operational component of the Company.
Diebold Nixdorf AllConnect Services was launched in 2018 to power the business operations of financial institutions of all sizes.


item3.txt



item4.txt
This quarterly report on Form 10-Q includes the certifications of the Company's Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO) required by Rule 13a-14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act).


part2.txt
For more information regarding legal proceedings, please refer to Part I, Item 3 of the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.


