fls.txt



item1.txt
The Company has reclassified the presentation of certain prior-year information to conform to the current presentation.
The Company included finance lease receivables of $14.9 and $14.4 in other assets as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, in the condensed consolidated balance sheets.
Revenue is measured based on consideration specified in a contract with a customer and excludes amounts collected on behalf of third parties.
In certain contracts where services are provided prior to billing, the Company recognizes a contract asset within trade receivables and other current assets.
Third-party freight payments are recorded in cost of sales.
The Company includes a warranty in connection with certain contracts with customers, which are not considered to be separate performance obligations.
For additional information on product warranty refer to note 9.
Revenue is recognized on these contracts ratably as the Company has a stand-ready obligation to provide services when or as needed by the customer.
The following is a description of principal solutions offered within the Company's two main industry segments that generate the Company's revenue.
For more detailed information about reportable operating segments, see note 20.
The Company provides its banking customers product-related services which include proactive monitoring and rapid resolution of incidents through remote service capabilities or an on-site visit.
First and second line maintenance, preventive maintenance and on-demand services keep the distributed assets of the Company's customers up and running through a standardized incident management process.
Managed services and outsourcing consists of the end-to-end business processes, solution management, upgrades and transaction processing.
The Company also provides a full array of cash management services, which optimizes the availability and cost of physical currency across the enterprise through efficient forecasting, inventory and replenishment processes.
The typical contract length for service is generally one year and is billed and paid in advance except for installations, among others.
The Company's hardware-agnostic software applications facilitate millions of transactions via automated teller machines (ATMs), point of sale (POS) terminals, kiosks, and other self-service devices.
The Company provides its banking customers front-end applications for consumer connection points and back-end platforms that manage channel transactions, operations and integration.
For its retail customers, the Company provides a comprehensive, modular solution capable of enabling the most advanced omnichannel retail use cases.


item2.txt
•Transitioned to a new, streamlined and customer-centric operating model designed to drive global consistency across the organization while improving collaboration and enabling more agile decision-making.
•Initiated a services modernization program which includes updating customer touchpoints (ATM or POS), automating incident reporting and responses, and standardizing offerings and internal support processes.
This enhanced liquidity provides financial flexibility, facilitates acquiring the remaining shares of Diebold Nixdorf AG and supports DN Now initiatives.
•Won Windows 10 ATM product upgrade contracts with several North America financial institutions, including an agreement with a regional United States (U.S.) bank for more than 500 DN Vynamic software licenses and a new managed services agreement.
Diebold Nixdorf is now the sole ATM software provider for Westpac's 2,600 machines.
The Company provides Connected Commerce solutions which enable millions of transactions each day.
The Company's approximately 23,000 employees service our customers' integrated solutions and design and deliver convenient, "always on" and highly secure solutions that bridge the physical and digital worlds of transactions.
Customers of the Company include nearly all of the world's top 100 financial institutions and a majority of the top 25 global retailers.
The savings target for DN Now is in excess of $250, of which $100 is anticipated to be realized over the next year.
In order to achieve these savings, the Company has and will continue to restructure the workforce, integrate and optimize systems, streamline legal entities and consolidate real estate holdings.


item3.txt
The Company operates in Argentina through a wholly-owned subsidiary, Diebold Argentina, S.A.


item4.txt
This quarterly report on Form 10-Q includes the certifications of the Company's Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO) required by Rule 13a-14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act).


part2.txt
Refer to the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.


