The discussion set forth below, as well as other portions of this Quarterly Report, contains statements concerning potential future events.The segment table located in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements sets forth the Company’s results of operations (in thousands) including net sales, gross profit, and operating income for each of the Company’s five segments during the periods shown.
For each line item in the table, the total of the outdoor, fitness, marine, auto, and aviation segments’ amounts equals the amount in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income included in Item 1.
As indicated in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, the methodology used to allocate certain selling, general, and administrative expenses was refined in the first quarter of 2019.
Fitness was the largest portion of our revenue mix at 26% in the second quarter of 2019 compared to 25% in the second quarter of 2018.
Total unit sales in the second quarter of 2019 increased to 3,838 when compared to total unit sales of 3,783 in the second quarter of 2018.
The fitness segment revenue increase was primarily driven by strong sales in wearables and sales from Tacx, a newly acquired group of subsidiaries that designs and manufactures indoor bike trainers.
A portion of license expense favorability in the auto segment is expected to continue for the remainder of the year.
The total absolute dollar decrease was primarily attributable to decreased cooperative advertising and point-of-sale display advertising expense in the auto segment and decreased media advertising in the fitness segment, slightly offset by increased media and cooperative advertising in the outdoor segment.
Selling, general and administrative expense increased 7% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue compared to the year-ago quarter.
As noted above and in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company refined its methodology to allocate certain selling, general and administrative expenses in the beginning of the 2019 fiscal year.
For comparative purposes, we estimate selling, general and administrative expenses for the second quarter of 2018 would have been approximately $5 million more for the aviation segment, approximately $4 million less for the marine segment, approximately $1 million less for the outdoor segment, and not significantly different for the fitness and auto segments.
Considering the refined allocation methodology noted above, we estimate selling, general and administrative expenses for the 52-weeks ended December 29, 2018 would have been approximately $18 million more for the aviation segment, approximately $11 million less for the marine segment, approximately $7 million less for the outdoor segment, and not significantly different for the fitness and auto segments.
Research and development expense as a percent of revenue was relatively flat compared to the year-ago quarter and increased 5% in absolute dollars.
The increase in operating income as a percent of revenue was primarily attributable to improved gross margin and leverage of operating expenses, as discussed above.The Company maintains a system of disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to provide reasonable assurance that information, which is required to be timely disclosed, is accumulated and communicated to management in a timely fashion.Item 1.