We have prepared the accompanying financial data as of April 27, 2019 and for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018, without audit, pursuant to the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("GAAP") have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations.
These Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 28, 2018.
The noncontrolling interests attributed to these investments, if any, are presented as a separate component from our equity in the equity section of the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The share of earnings attributable to the noncontrolling interests are not presented separately in the Consolidated Statements of Operations as these amounts are not material for any of the fiscal periods presented.
In the opinion of management, all normal recurring adjustments necessary to present fairly the consolidated balance sheet as of April 27, 2019; the results of operations and the statements of comprehensive income (loss) for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018; the statements of cash flows for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018; and the statements of equity for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018, as applicable, have been made.
The results of operations for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the operating results for the full fiscal year or any future periods.
The underlying principle of ASC 606 is to recognize revenue when a customer obtains control of promised goods or services at an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received in exchange for those goods or services.
In addition to the above revenue recognition timing impacts, ASC 606 requires incremental contract acquisition costs (such as sales commissions) for customer contracts to be capitalized and amortized on a systematic basis that is consistent with the transfer to the customer of the goods or services to which the assets relates.
We determine whether arrangements are distinct based on whether the customer can benefit from the product or service on its own or together with other resources that are readily available and whether our commitment to transfer the product or service to the customer is separately identifiable from other obligations in the contract.NM - Not meaningful; we recognized a net loss for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 related to the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.
See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for impact of this adoption on our operating results for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019.
In the third quarter of fiscal 2019, we had strong performance across the business and delivered strong revenue growth, margins and operating cash flow.
Our product revenue reflected growth in Infrastructure Platforms, Applications and Security, and we continued to make progress in the transition of our business model to increased software and subscriptions.
While the overall environment remains uncertain, we continue to aggressively invest in priority areas with the objective of driving profitable growth over the long term.The descriptions below include any material changes to and supersede the description of the risk factors affecting our business previously disclosed in “Part I, Item 1A.
Instability in the global credit markets, the impact of uncertainty regarding global central bank monetary policy, the instability in the geopolitical environment in many parts of the world including as a result of the pending United Kingdom “Brexit” withdrawal from the European Union, the current economic challenges in China, including global economic ramifications of Chinese economic difficulties, and other disruptions may continue to put pressure on global economic conditions.
In addition, reports of certain intelligence gathering methods of the U.S. government could affect customers’ perception of the products of IT companies which design and manufacture products in the United States.
Trust and confidence in us as an IT supplier is critical to the development and growth of our markets.