fls.txt



item1.txt
On November 1, 2015, Hewlett-Packard Company completed the separation of Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company (“Hewlett Packard Enterprise”), Hewlett-Packard Company’s former enterprise technology infrastructure, software, services and financing businesses (the “Separation”).
The accompanying Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements of HP and its wholly-owned subsidiaries are prepared in conformity with United States (“U.S.”) generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”).
The interim financial information is unaudited but reflects all normal adjustments that are necessary to provide a fair statement of results for the interim periods presented.
The Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheet for October 31, 2017 was derived from audited financial statements.
HP implemented an organizational change to align its segment and business unit financial reporting more closely with its current business structure.
HP is currently evaluating the timing and the impact of this guidance on the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
In August 2017, the FASB issued guidance, which amends the existing accounting standards for derivatives and hedging.
In January 2017, the FASB issued guidance, which amends the existing accounting standards for business combinations.
As a result, entities will no longer present transfers between cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows.
The guidance requires an entity to recognize the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers, other than inventory, when the transfer occurs.
It also requires modified retrospective transition with a cumulative catch-up adjustment to opening retained earnings in the period of adoption.
In August 2016, the FASB issued guidance, which amends the existing accounting standards for the classification of certain cash receipts and cash payments on the statement of cash flows.
In June 2016, the FASB issued guidance, which requires credit losses on financial assets measured at amortized cost basis to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected, not based on incurred losses.
Further, credit losses on available-for-sale debt securities should be recorded through an allowance for credit losses limited to the amount by which fair value is below amortized cost.
HP is currently evaluating the timing and the impact of this guidance on the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
Consistent with current guidance, the recognition, measurement, and presentation of expenses and cash flows arising from a lease by a lessee primarily will depend on its classification.
In January 2016, the FASB issued guidance, which amends the existing accounting standards for the recognition and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities.
The guidance primarily addresses certain aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure of financial instruments.


item2.txt
•In Personal Systems, our strategic focus is on profitable growth through hyper market segmentation with respect to enhanced innovation in multi-operating systems, multi-architecture, geography, customer segments and other key attributes.
Additionally, we are investing in premium form factors such as convertible notebooks and detachable notebooks, in order to meet customer preference for mobile, thinner and lighter devices.
•In Printing, our strategic focus is on business printing, a shift to contractual solutions and Graphics, as well as expanding our footprint in the 3D printing marketplace.
The shift to contractual solutions includes an increased focus on Managed Print Services and Instant Ink, which presents strong after-market supplies opportunities.
We plan to continue to focus on shifting the mix in the installed base to higher value units and expanding our innovative Ink, Laser, Graphics and 3D printing programs.
We continue to execute on our key initiatives of focusing on high-value products targeted at high usage categories and introducing new revenue delivery models.
Our focus is on placing higher value printer units which offer strong annuity of toner and ink, the design and deployment of A3 products and solutions, accelerating growth in Graphic solutions and 3D printing.
For instance, we source the majority of our A4 and a portion of our A3 portfolio of laser printer engines and laser toner cartridges from Canon.
To address these challenges, we continue to pursue innovation with a view towards developing new products and services aligned with generating market demand and meeting the needs of our customers and partners.


item3.txt



