Item 4.
Controls and Procedures.
Conclusions Regarding the Effectiveness of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

Management, including the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act")), for the Company.
Management assessed the effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures as of December 30, 2017.
Based upon this assessment, Management has concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December 30, 2017 to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports filed or submitted by it under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms, and to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by the Company in such reports is accumulated and communicated to Management, including its principal executive officer and principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

There have not been any changes in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) of the Exchange Act) during the most recent fiscal quarter that have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.
Limitations on the Effectiveness of Controls

All internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations.
Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and presentation.
Because of its inherent limitations, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
In addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies and procedures may deteriorate.
Risk Factors.
The following is provided to update the following risk factors previously disclosed in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors of the Form 10-K and Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors of the Form 10-Q for the first quarter in Fiscal 2018.
We can provide no assurance that we will continue to have adequate liquidity as we are dependent upon our senior credit facility to fund our cash needs.
Our working capital demands can fluctuate greatly due to cash needs to fund new client contracts in advance of contractual payment dates.
Due to our decreased revenues and profitability, and increased investments in our business under our transformation efforts, such as ERP migrations previously disclosed, net cash provided by operating activities may be insufficient to fund our operations and growth initiatives.
We are dependent upon our senior credit facility to fund our cash needs.
In August 2017, we amended our senior credit agreement to avoid a default of our then existing leverage covenant.
Our amended credit agreement contains covenants requiring us to achieve a certain minimum adjusted EBITDA during each quarter through the first quarter of Fiscal 2019.
A leverage ratio and a fixed charge coverage ratio commence in the second quarter of Fiscal 2019 through maturity in May 2021.
Based upon our current projections, we may not be able to generate sufficient adjusted EBITDA during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2018 (ending March 31, 2018) in order to meet the minimum adjusted EBITDA covenant for that quarter.
If we fail to meet such minimum adjusted EBITDA covenant, the lenders would have the ability to exercise all of their legal and contractual remedies for default including, among others, the right to cease extending credit under the credit facility, to declare all outstanding obligations under the credit facility (including all outstanding indebtedness) to be immediately due and payable, to take action to protect its security interests in the collateral (which is substantially all of the assets of the Company) including taking possession thereof, and to increase the interest rate under the credit facility.
There can be no assurance that the Company will generate sufficient adjusted EBITDA during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2018 or in fiscal quarters thereafter in order to avoid a breach of the Amended Credit Agreement.
In addition, there can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in its efforts to limit the remedies of the lenders in the event of such default.
As a result, the failure to maintain adequate liquidity or a default under our Amended Credit Agreement could have a material adverse effect on the Company.
Item 6.
Exhibits.
SIGNATURE

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
BLACK BOX CORPORATION



David J. Russo

Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, 

Treasurer and Principal Accounting Officer
