Item 2.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&A").
The discussion and analysis for the three-months and six-months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 as set forth below in this Part I, Item 2 should be read in conjunction with the response to Part I, Item 1 of this report and the consolidated financial statements of Black Box Corporation ("Black Box," the "Company," "we" or "our"), including the related notes, and "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" included in the Company’s most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018 (the "Form 10-K").
References to “2Q19” mean the three-month period ended September 30, 2018 while references to "2Q18" mean the three-month period ended September 30, 2017.
References to "2QYTD19" mean the six-month period ended September 30, 2018 while references to "2QYTD18" mean the six-month period ended September 30, 2017.
The Company’s fiscal year ends on March 31.
The fiscal quarters consist of 13 weeks and generally end on the Saturday nearest each calendar quarter end, adjusted to provide relatively equivalent business days for each fiscal quarter.
The actual ending dates for the periods presented as of September 30, 2018 and 2017 were September 29, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively.
References to "Fiscal Year" or "Fiscal" mean the Company’s fiscal year ended March 31 for the year referenced.
All dollar amounts are presented in thousands except for per share amounts or unless otherwise noted.
Recent Developments
Agreement and Plan of Merger
On November 11, 2018, Black Box entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger Agreement”) with AGC Networks Pte Ltd., a company organized under the laws of Singapore (“Top Parent”), BBX Main Inc., a Delaware corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of Top Parent (“Parent”), BBX Inc., a Delaware corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of Parent (“BBX Intermediate”), and Host Merger Sub Inc., a Delaware corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of BBX Intermediate (“Merger Sub”, and, together with Top Parent, Parent and BBX Intermediate, the “Parent Entities” and each, a “Parent Entity”).
Pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement, Top Parent, Parent and BBX Intermediate have agreed to cause Merger Sub to commence a tender offer to purchase any and all of the outstanding shares of common stock, par value $0.001 per share, of the Company, at a price of $1.08 per Share, net to the holder thereof, in cash, without interest thereon.
The Black Box Board of Directors unanimously approved the merger agreement following a thorough review of the full range of available strategic, financial and capital structure alternatives, which Black Box commenced and announced on February 6, 2018.
The transaction is expected to close prior to the end of the calendar year.
Sale of Federal Business
On August 27, 2018, the Company closed on its previously announced agreement to sell its Federal Government IT Services Business (the “Federal Business”) to Arlington Capital Partners, a leading private equity firm with a focus on businesses in government services and other adjacent markets, for a cash purchase price of $75.0 million.
Arlington Capital Partners purchased 100% of the equity interests of the Federal Business on a debt-free, cash-free basis.
The net cash proceeds from the sale of the Federal Business, after purchase price adjustments of $5.6 million, transaction fees and expenses of $3.2 million as well as $3.0 million of funds deposited into escrow for the finalization of certain closing items as well as certain indemnifications, were used to pay Bank fees, interest on bank debt and indebtedness.
After fees and interest, the new $10 million LIFO senior revolving credit facility was paid first and the Term Loan was paid in full, with the remaining funds reducing the original Revolving Credit Line.
The LIFO line is available for future borrowings, subject to continued compliance with the Second Amended Credit Agreement.
Second Amendment to the Credit Agreement
On June 29, 2018, the Company and certain direct and indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Company (collectively, the “Guarantors” and together with the Company, the “Loan Parties”) entered into a Second Amendment (the “Second Amended Credit Agreement” or the “Second Amendment”) with PNC Bank, National Association, as administrative agent (the “Agent”), and certain other lenders party thereto (together with the Agent, the “Lenders”) to amend the Credit Agreement entered into among the Loan Parties, the Agent and the Lenders on May 9, 2016 (as amended by the Amendment and Joinder Agreement, dated August 9, 2017, the “Amended Credit Agreement,” and as further amended by the “Second Amended Credit Agreement”).
The Second Amended Credit Agreement established a new “last in first out” senior revolving credit facility in an amount not to exceed $10,000 (the “LIFO Facility”).
The borrowings under the LIFO Facility will be used to finance the Company’s cash flow needs, subject to an approved budget and certain variance restrictions, including payments to vendors to allow the Company to operate in the ordinary course of its business.
Interest on the LIFO Facility is LIBOR plus 10.0%.
The Company entered into the Second Amendment to waive and modify certain covenants and other provisions contained in the Amended Credit Agreement and to fund its ongoing operations with the LIFO Facility.
The Company would have defaulted the minimum Adjusted EBITDA covenant and certain other covenants as defined by the Amended Credit Agreement had these defaults not been waived under the Second Amendment.
The Company
Black Box is a leading digital solutions provider dedicated to helping customers design, build, manage and secure their IT infrastructure.
The Company offers Services and Products that it distributes through two platforms that it has built over its 42-year history.
New communications systems orders often generate post-implementation maintenance via a fixed fee model where revenues are earned ratably over the term of the agreement (generally 1-3 years for commercial clients and 3-5 years for government clients) or a variable fee model that is based on time and materials per occurrence, similar to on demand services.
Maintenance revenues generally are not dependent on the economy as clients contract for maintenance to extend the life of their existing equipment and delay capital spending on new communications systems.
Maintenance and on demand services revenues are also dependent upon the Company's relationship with its clients and its long track record of providing high-quality service.
The Company's Services business generates backlog which is defined by the Company as orders and contracts considered to be firm.
At September 30, 2018, the Company's total backlog, which relates primarily to Services, was $247,317, of which $173,476 is expected to be completed within the next twelve months.
Under our Products platform, we provide networking solutions through the sale of products for KVM switching, IT infrastructure, specialty networking and multimedia.
The Company services a variety of clients within most major industries, with the highest concentration in the government, business services, manufacturing, banking, retail, healthcare and technology industry verticals.
Factors that impact those verticals, therefore, could have an impact on the Company.
While the Company generates most of its revenues in North America, the Company also generates revenues from around the world, primarily Europe, such that factors that impact European markets could impact the Company.
Management strives to develop extensive and long-term relationships with high-quality clients as Management believes that satisfied clients will demand quality services and product offerings from us even in economic downturns.
2QYTD19 vs 2QYTD18 Summary
•an $11,165 decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses which was primarily the result of $4,766 lower compensation and benefit costs, $4,579 lower costs relating to the implementation of SAP, $4,086 lower restructuring costs, $1,662 lower stock compensation expense, and $1,076 lower foreign exchange expense, all partially offset by a $5,774 increase in financial advisory costs, and
•a $3,697 increase in interest expense resulting from higher interest rates and higher average debt.
Net cash used for continuing operating activities was $10,281, which included net loss of $15,064 and positive cash from working capital of $2,335, compared to net cash used for continuing operating activities of $15,938, which included net loss of $23,363 and negative cash from working capital of $2,919, in the same period last year.
Results of Operations
Segments
Total revenues were $158,658, a decrease of 4% from $164,465 in the same period last year.
Services revenues were $125,822, a decrease of 1% from $127,217 in the same period last year primarily due to an increase in International Services offset by declines in North American Services.
Products revenues were $32,836, a decrease of 12% from $37,248 in the same period last year primarily due to declines in both International Products and North American Products.
Total gross profit margin was 27.3%, a decrease from 30.0% in the same period last year.
Services gross profit margin was 23.4%, a decrease from 26.1% in the same period last year due to revenue growth in lower margin International Services combined with declining revenue in higher margin North American Services along with margin compression due to higher costs.
Products gross profit margin was 42.5%, a decrease from 43.2% in the same period last year due to margin compression in North American Products.
Total operating loss margin was 5.9%, compared to a total operating loss margin of 5.4% in the same period last year.
Services operating loss margin was 6.5%, compared to Services operating loss margin of 8.2% in the same period last year, primarily due to lower operating expenses partially offset by lower gross profit.
Products operating loss margin was 3.6%, compared to Products operating loss margin of 4.0% in the same period last year, primarily due to lower operating expenses partially offset by lower gross profit as well.
Total Revenues were $321,152, a decrease of 1% from $325,210 in the same period last year.
Products Revenues were $64,388, a decrease of 8% from $70,136 in the same period last year, primarily due to decreases in both International Products and North American Products.
Services Revenues were $256,764, an increase of 1% from $255,074 in the same period last year primarily due to growth in International Services partially offset by declines in North American Services.
Total Gross profit margin was 27.9%, a decrease of 4% from 29.0% in the same period last year.
Products Gross profit margin was 42.4%, a decrease of 1% from 42.7% in the same period last year.
This decrease was due to margin compression in North American Products.
Services Gross profit margin was 24.3%, a decrease of 4% from 25.2% in the same period last year.
This decrease was due to revenue growth in lower margin International Services combined with declining revenue in higher margin North American Services along with margin compression due to higher costs.
Total Operating loss margin was 5.0%, an increase compared to 7.3% in the same period last year.
Products Operating loss margin was 4.4%, an improvement compared to 5.3% in the same period last year, primarily due to lower operating expenses partially offset by lower gross profit.
Services Operating loss margin was 5.1%, an improvement compared to 7.8% in the same period last year, primarily due to lower operating expenses partially offset by lower gross profit as well.
Interest expense, net and Income Taxes
Interest expense was $4,174, an increase of 131% from $1,808 in the same period last year primarily as a result of higher interest rates and higher average debt.
The weighted-average outstanding debt and weighted-average interest rate was $136,593 and 7.2%, respectively, compared to $133,615 and 3.9% in the same period last year.
Benefit from income taxes was $7,742, compared to a provision for income taxes of $1,948 in the same period last year.
This decrease was primarily due to valuation allowances benefit allocated to continuing operations.
Interest expense was $6,723, an increase of 122% from $3,026 in the same period last year primarily as a result of higher interest rates and higher average debt.
Interest expense as a percent of Revenues was 2.1%, compared to 0.9% in the same period last year.
The weighted-average outstanding debt and weighted-average interest rate was $146,390 and 6.4%, respectively, compared to $137,054 and 3.3% in the same period last year.
Benefit from income taxes was $8,412, compared to a benefit from income taxes of $3,278 in the same period last year as a result of valuation allowances benefit allocated to continuing operations.
The effective income tax rate was 35.8%, an increase compared to the effective income tax rate of 12.3% in the same period last year.
The effective income tax rate increase from 12.3% to 35.8% was primarily due to valuation allowances.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Overview
A majority of our revenues are generated through individual sales of services and products.
Approximately 20% of our revenues are generated from long-term support contracts.
We depend on repeat client business, as well as our ability to develop new client business, to sustain and grow our revenues.
Most significant orders are subject to a competitive bidding process and, generally, competition can be significant for such new orders.
Our business model provides us with flexibility in terms of capital expenditures and other required operating expenses.
Liquidity Position
The following is a summary of our capitalization and liquidity position.
The Company's liquidity (cash and cash equivalents and unused credit commitments) was $31,943 at the end of the second quarter of Fiscal 2019, compared to $35,600 at the end of Fiscal 2018.
This decrease in liquidity was driven by a decline in cash on hand partially offset by the increased availability provided by the new LIFO line of credit.
The Company is emphasizing margin expansion, cost reductions and working capital initiatives in order to improve profitability and to bring working capital levels in line with revenues and activity levels.
Under the Amended Credit Agreement, the leverage ratio covenant was suspended until the second quarter of Fiscal 2019.
The Amended Credit Agreement contained a minimum Adjusted EBITDA covenant and a provision requiring the Company to repay revolving credit loans with any excess cash.
During that same period, a covenant was established to limit capital expenditures to an agreed upon amount.
The ability of the Company to make dividends or other distributions (including stock repurchases other than up to a limited dollar amount for tax payments from vested equity awards) was eliminated.
The leverage ratio covenant that was to commence in the second quarter of Fiscal 2019 was to be 4.00 to 1.00 and was to reduce to 3.00 to 1.00 over the remaining life of the credit facility.
A fixed charge coverage ratio of 1.00 to 1.00 was to begin in the second quarter of Fiscal 2019 and increase to 1.10 to 1.00 in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2019 and thereafter.
The Company’s obligations under the Amended Credit Agreement were secured by substantially all of the assets of the Company and the Company’s direct and indirect subsidiaries that are incorporated (or organized) under the laws of the District of Columbia or under the laws of any state or commonwealth of the United States (a “U.S.
Entity”) and are guaranteed by such domestic subsidiaries.
Under the Amended Credit Agreement, the Company and each U.S.
Entity pledged 65% of the voting ownership interests and 100% of the non-voting ownership interests of its foreign subsidiaries.
On June 29, 2018, the Company and the Loan Parties entered into a Second Amendment with the Lenders to amend the Credit Agreement entered into on May 9, 2016 (as amended by Amended Credit Agreement and as further amended by the Second Amended Credit Agreement).
The Second Amended Credit Agreement established a new LIFO Facility in an amount not to exceed $10,000.
The borrowings under the LIFO Facility will be used to finance the Company’s cash flow needs, subject to an approved budget and certain variance restrictions, including payments to vendors to allow the Company to operate in the ordinary course of its business.
Interest on the LIFO Facility is LIBOR plus 10.0%.
The Company entered into the Second Amendment to waive and modify certain covenants and other provisions contained in the Amended Credit Agreement and to fund its ongoing operations with the LIFO Facility.
As part of the Company’s review of its alternatives, the Company has agreed under the Second Amended Credit Agreement to pursue the sale (the “Sale Transaction”) of its federal government IT services business (the “Federal Business”).
On August 27, 2018, the Company completed the sale of the Federal Business.
All net cash proceeds of the Sale Transaction were used to pay down loans outstanding under the LIFO Facility, and after, repayment of such loans, the Company’s other indebtedness under the Second Amended Credit Agreement.
The Second Amended Credit Agreement also revised the Company’s covenants under the Amended Credit Agreement to, among other things, (i) suspend the leverage ratio and fixed charge coverage ratio covenants until December 15, 2018; (ii) modify the minimum consolidated EBITDA covenant to require that the Company’s minimum consolidated EBITDA for the three fiscal month period ending on the close of each fiscal month equal or exceed (i) negative $3,000 for the fiscal months ending June 30, 2018, July 31, 2018 and August 31, 2018, and (ii) negative $3,500 for the fiscal months ending September 30, 2018 and thereafter; (iii) reduce the sub-limit for the issuance of letters of credit to $10,000; (iv) require periodic delivery of updated budgets and budget variance reports to the Agent and compliance with certain disbursement and net cash flow variance thresholds; (v) restrict the incurrence of expenses related to implementation of the ERP system; (vii) require that the net cash proceeds from certain asset sales and certain excess cash be used to prepay the Company’s obligations under the Amended Credit Agreement; and (viii) require the repatriation to the Loan Parties of cash on hand above a certain amount maintained by certain excluded foreign subsidiaries of the Loan Parties and restrict the transfer of assets by the Loan Parties (other than inventory in the course of ordinary business) to such excluded foreign subsidiaries unless accounted for in the budget.
As of September 30, 2018, the Company was in compliance with all covenants under the Second Amended Credit Agreement.
The Company’s obligations under the Second Amended Credit Agreement continue to be secured by substantially all of the personal property assets of the Company and all of the Company’s direct and indirect owned subsidiaries that are incorporated (or organized) under the laws of the District of Columbia or under the laws of any state or commonwealth of the United States (other than BBOX Holdings Mexico LLC).
In addition, under the Second Amendment, the Company’s obligations are required to be secured by additional collateral, including (i) a first-priority pledge of all of the capital stock of each existing and subsequently acquired or organized subsidiary of the Loan Parties not pledged under the Credit Agreement, with certain exceptions; and (ii) mortgages over certain material real property of the Loan Parties located in the U.S.
The Company is also required to cause the execution of deposit account control agreements with respect to certain U.S. bank accounts of the Loan Parties and to deliver to the Agent executed assignment agreements and forms of notice of assignment with respect to certain federal government contracts.
Such notices may be sent upon an event of default or potential default.
Effectiveness of the Second Amendment was subject to certain conditions precedent, each of which were satisfied on June 29, 2018.
The outstanding balance of the LIFO Facility and all accrued and unpaid interest, fees and expenses were originally due and payable on December 15, 2018 or the earlier proper termination of the LIFO Facility by the Agent following an event of default.
On November 17, 2018, the maturity of the LIFO Facility was extended from December 15, 2018 until January 17, 2019, subject to certain terms and conditions.
Sources and Uses of Cash
The following is a summary of our sources and uses of cash.
Net cash provided by (used for) continuing operating activities
Changes in working capital, and particularly changes in Accounts receivable, Costs in excess of billings and Billings in excess of cost, can have a significant impact on net cash provided by (used for) operating activities, largely due to the timing of payments and receipts.
Net cash provided by (used for) continuing investing activities
Capital expenditures
The Company made investments of $769 compared to $2,327 in the same period last year which primarily related to information technology infrastructure, computer hardware and service vehicles.
Net cash provided by (used for) continuing financing activities
Debt
The Company repaid $7,029 of short-term debt and $48,623 of long-term debt.
These payments were funded by the sale of the Company’s Federal Business, which generated proceeds of approximately $66.2 million.
Common stock repurchases
The Company did not make any discretionary investments in the form of common stock repurchases in the current period nor in the same period last year.
The Company withheld shares in the amount of $114, compared to $393 in the prior year, to satisfy employee income taxes due as a result of the vesting of certain restricted stock units.
Since the inception of the repurchase program beginning in April 1999 through September 30, 2018, the Company has repurchased 11,392,851 shares of common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $408,621, or an average purchase price per share of $35.87.
These shares do not include the treasury shares withheld for tax payments due upon the vesting of certain restricted stock units and performance shares.
Under the Second Amended Credit Agreement, the Company is no longer permitted to repurchase common stock through its repurchase program but is allowed to repurchase a limited amount of shares for tax payments related to the vesting certain restricted stock units and performance shares, as applicable.
This restriction is in effect until May 9, 2021.
See Note 6 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Part I of this Quarterly Report for additional information.
Dividends
The Company is no longer permitted to pay dividends under the Second Amended Credit Agreement.
This restriction is in effect until May 9, 2021, the termination date of the Second Amended Credit Agreement.
Legal Proceedings
See Note 14 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form 10-Q, which information is incorporated herein by reference.
Inflation
The overall effects of inflation on the Company have been nominal.
Although long-term inflation rates are difficult to predict, the Company continues to strive to minimize the effect of inflation through improved productivity and cost reduction programs as well as price adjustments within the constraints of market competition.
Critical Accounting Policies
The Company’s critical accounting policies require the most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain and are the most important to the portrayal of the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
The Company’s critical accounting policies are disclosed in Part II, Item 7, "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" of the Form 10-K.
The significant accounting policies used in the preparation of the Company’s consolidated financial statements are disclosed in Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements within the Form 10-K as well as in Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Part I of this Quarterly Report for significant accounting policies adopted during Fiscal 2019.
Impact of Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements
As of April 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASC 606 using the modified retrospective method for all contracts not completed as of the date of adoption.
Refer to Note 3 for additional information.
There have been no other accounting pronouncements adopted during Fiscal 2019 that have had a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
Cautionary Forward Looking Statements
Any forward-looking statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or in documents incorporated herein by reference are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and speak only as of the date of this Form 10-Q.
You can identify these forward-looking statements by the fact that they use words such as "should," "anticipate," "estimate," "approximate," "expect," "target," "may," "will," "project," "intend," "plan," "believe" and other words of similar meaning and expression in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance.
One can also identify forward-looking statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts.
Forward-looking statements are inherently subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected.
Although it is not possible to predict or identify all risk factors, such risks and uncertainties may include, among others, those relating to the Merger Agreement, the Offer and the Merger included within this Form 10-Q, liquidity, compliance with bank covenants, our going concern qualification, the Company's arrangements with its vendors and subcontractors, levels of business activity and operating expenses, expenses relating to compliance requirements, cash flows, global economic and business conditions, the timing and costs of restructuring programs and other initiatives, such as our enterprise resource planning system initiatives, successful marketing of the Company's product and services offerings, successful implementation of the Company's integration initiatives and successful implementation of the Company's government contracting programs, as well as competition, changes in foreign, political and economic conditions, fluctuating foreign currencies compared to the U.S. dollar, rapid changes in technologies, client preferences, government budgetary constraints and various other matters, many of which are beyond the Company's control.
Additional risk factors are included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018.
We can give no assurance that any goal, plan or target set forth in forward-looking statements will be achieved and readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements, which speak only as of the date made.
We undertake no obligation to release publicly any revisions to forward-looking statements as a result of future events or developments and caution you not to unduly rely on any such forward-looking statements.
