Item 2.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&A").
The discussion and analysis for the three-months and nine-months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 as set forth below in this Part I, Item 2 should be read in conjunction with the response to Part I, Item 1 of this report and the consolidated financial statements of Black Box Corporation ("Black Box," the "Company," "we" or "our"), including the related notes, and "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" included in the Company’s most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 (the "Form 10-K").
References to “3Q18” mean the three-month period ended December 31, 2017 while references to “3Q17” mean the three-month period ended December 31, 2016.
References to “3QYTD18” mean the nine-month period ended December 31, 2017 while references to “3QYTD17” mean the nine-month period ended December 31, 2016.
The Company’s fiscal year ends on March 31.
The fiscal quarters consist of 13 weeks and generally end on the Saturday nearest each calendar quarter end, adjusted to provide relatively equivalent business days for each fiscal quarter.
The actual ending dates for the periods presented as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 were December 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, respectively.
References to "Fiscal Year" or "Fiscal" mean the Company’s fiscal year ended March 31 for the year referenced.
All dollar amounts are presented in thousands except for per share amounts or unless otherwise noted.
The Company
Black Box is a leading digital solutions provider dedicated to helping customers design, build, manage and secure their IT infrastructure.
The Company offers Services and Products that it distributes through two platforms that it has built over its 41-year history.
New communications systems orders often generate post-implementation maintenance via a fixed fee model where revenues are earned ratably over the term of the agreement (generally 1-3 years for commercial clients and 3-5 years for government clients) or a variable fee model that is based on time and materials per occurrence, similar to MAC work.
Maintenance revenues generally are not dependent on the economy as clients contract for maintenance to extend the life of their existing equipment and delay capital spending on new communications systems.
Maintenance and MAC work revenues are also dependent upon the Company's relationship with its clients and its long track record of providing high-quality service.
The Company's Services business generates backlog which is defined by the Company as orders and contracts considered to be firm.
At December 31, 2017, the Company's total backlog, which relates primarily to Services, was $344,463, of which $232,968 is expected to be completed within the next twelve months.
Under our Products platform, we provide networking solutions through the sale of products for KVM switching, IT infrastructure, specialty networking and multimedia.
Our Products' revenues are generated from sales to key channel partners and system integrators and through a global distribution network.
Products sells through a direct sales team as well as through its internet site and catalogs.
In order to meet client demand, we keep a moderate level of inventory which consumes part of our working capital.
The market for these products is a highly fragmented and competitive.
The Company has participated in this market for 40+ years and has earned a reputation for providing
The Company services a variety of clients within most major industries, with the highest concentration in the government, business services, manufacturing, banking, retail, healthcare and technology industry verticals.
Factors that impact those verticals, therefore, could have an impact on the Company.
While the Company generates most of its revenues in North America, the Company also generates revenues from around the world, primarily Europe, such that factors that impact European markets could impact the Company.
Management strives to develop extensive and long-term relationships with high-quality clients as Management believes that satisfied clients will demand quality services and product offerings from us even in economic downturns.
3QYTD18 vs 3QYTD17 Summary
•a $66,918 decrease in Revenues as a result of a $53,194 decrease in Service Revenues, primarily due to decreases in both unified communications and infrastructure business in North America, partially offset by an increase in government revenues due to market repositioning that was actioned over the past two years and an increase in commercial revenues outside of North America resulting from a realignment of several international entities between Products and Services as a result of changes in our management structure in the second quarter of Fiscal 2018, and a $13,724 decrease in Product Revenues primarily due to a decrease in North America Products' sales as a result of lower demand in the legacy run rate business, a decline in International Products which was negatively impacted by a large one time deal (Norway) in the prior year and an initiative to centralize back office and supply chain operations, and the aforementioned realignment of several international entities between Products and Services,
•a $22,765 decrease in Gross profit as a result of a $18,036 decrease in Service Gross profit driven by lower revenues on higher margin unified communication business and aggressive pricing on certain incremental infrastructure projects for our commercial clients and higher volume of successful contract awards that carry a lower gross margin for our government
clients, and a $4,729 decrease in Products Gross profit driven by the decline in Revenues noted above, all partially offset by a $9,137 Inventory impairment taken in the prior year,
•a $4,556 increase in Selling, general and administrative expenses which was primarily the result of $10,967 of costs related to the ongoing ERP implementation, $1,401 of additional restructuring expense, and $908 of net gain on the sale of multiple facilities in the prior year, all partially offset by a decrease in compensation and benefits expense,
•an $890 increase in Asset impairment loss due to a $1,426 Trademark impairment in the second quarter of Fiscal 2018,
•a $1,444 increase in Interest expense (income) resulting from higher interest rates, a $204 write-off of deferred amortization costs of our Credit Agreement due to the reduction in size of the facility in the Amended Credit Agreement, and higher average debt,
•a $14,948 increase in Provision for income taxes due to the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“Tax Reform”) and valuation allowances booked against U.S. foreign tax credit carry-forwards.
Net cash used for operating activities was $43,132, which included Net loss of $49,085 and negative cash from working capital of $29,232, compared to net cash provided for operating activities of $24,734, which included Net loss of $5,261 and negative cash from working capital of $2,713, in the same period last year.
Results of Operations
Segments
Total Revenues were $194,873, a decrease of 7% from $210,370 in the same period last year.
Service Revenues were $160,480, a decrease of 8% from $174,261 in the same period last year due to a decrease in commercial revenues partially offset by an increase in government revenues.
The decrease in commercial revenues within North America was due to a decline in the legacy unified communication business, which we expect will continue for the foreseeable future, and a decrease in the infrastructure business, which was the result of a change in sales leadership and other transformational activities.
Commercial revenues outside of North America increased primarily due to a realignment of several international entities between Products and Services as a result of changes in our management structure in the second quarter of Fiscal 2018.
Government revenues increased due to market repositioning that was actioned over the past two years.
Product Revenues were $34,393, a decrease of 5% from $36,109 in the same period last year primarily due to a decrease in North America Products' sales as a result of lower demand in the legacy run rate business and due to the aforementioned realignment of the international business between Products and Services.
Total Gross profit margin was 27.0%, a decrease of 9% from 29.7% in the same period last year.
Service Gross profit margin was 24.5%, a decrease of 8% from 26.7% in the same period last year due to declines of higher margin legacy unified communication business and aggressive pricing on certain incremental deals for our commercial clients and a higher percentage of lower margin project revenue.
Product Gross profit margin was 38.7%, a decrease of 13% from 44.2% in the same period last year due to higher freight costs, lower margin deals, and product returns.
Total Operating loss margin was 4.0%, compared to a Total Operating profit margin of 1.3% in the same period last year.
Service Operating loss margin was 3.3%, compared to Service Operating profit margin of 1.3% in the same period last year, primarily due to costs related to the ongoing U.S.-based ERP project and lower Gross profit margin referenced above, partially offset by lower variable compensation costs and unusual costs incurred in the prior year ($336 in AR impairment and $267 in loss on sales of facilities).
The Company will continue to incur costs associated with the U.S.-based ERP project that will have a negative impact on our profits and cash flows.
Product Operating loss margin was 7.7%, compared to Product Operating profit margin of 1.4% in the same period last year, primarily due to the decrease in Gross profit margin as referenced above.
Total Revenues were $580,681, a decrease of 10% from $647,599 in the same period last year.
Service Revenues were $476,152, a decrease of 10% from $529,346 in the same period last year primarily due to decreases in both unified communications and infrastructure business in North America, partially offset by an increase in government revenues due to market repositioning that was actioned over the past two years and an increase in commercial revenues outside of North America resulting from a realignment of several international entities between Products and Services as a result of changes in our management structure in the second quarter of Fiscal 2018.
Product Revenues were $104,529, a decrease of 12% from $118,253 in the same period last year, primarily due to a decrease in North America Products' sales as a result of lower demand in the legacy run rate business and a decline in International Products which was negatively impacted by a large one time deal (Norway) in the prior year and an initiative to centralize back office and supply chain operations, as well as due to the aforementioned realignment of the international business between Products and Services.
Total Gross profit margin was 27.9%, a decrease of 2% from 28.5% in the same period last year.
The same period last year included Inventory impairment losses of $6,327 for Services and $2,810 for Products, which together impacted Total Gross profit margin by 1.4%.
Service Gross profit margin was 24.9%, a decrease of 4% from 25.8% in the same period last year.
The Inventory impairment loss for Services had a 1.2% impact to Service Gross profit margin.
This decrease was primarily due to lower revenues on higher margin unified communication business and aggressive pricing on certain incremental infrastructure projects for our commercial clients and higher volume of successful contract awards that carry a lower gross margin for our government clients.
Product Gross profit margin was 41.4%, an increase of 2% from 40.6% in the same period last year.
The Inventory impairment loss for Products had a 2.4% impact to Product Gross profit margin.
Total Operating loss margin was 4.8%, a decrease compared to 0.2% in the same period last year.
Service Operating loss margin was 4.6%, a decrease compared to 0.4% in the same period last year, primarily due to costs related to the ongoing U.S.-based ERP project and $1,426 in Asset Impairment relating to Trademarks, partially offset by lower variable compensation costs.
The Company will continue to incur costs associated with the U.S.-based ERP project that will have a negative impact on our profits and cash flows.
Product Operating loss margin was 6.1%, a decrease compared to Product Operating profit margin of 0.9% in the same period last year, primarily due to the decrease in Gross profit margin as referenced above.
Company management continues to review initiatives to align costs with revenue to improve profitability.
Interest expense, net and Income Taxes
Interest expense was $1,737, an increase of 65% from $1,055 in the same period last year primarily as a result of higher interest rates and a higher average debt.
The weighted-average outstanding debt and weighted-average interest rate was $140,462 and 4.5%, respectively, compared to $124,304 and 2.7% in the same period last year.
Provision for income taxes was $18,144, compared to $324 in the same period last year.
This increase was primarily due to the impact of the Tax Reform and valuation allowances booked against U.S. foreign tax credit carry-forwards.
Excluding the impact of the Tax Reform, Provision for income taxes would have been $4,640.
Interest expense was $4,756, an increase of 44% from $3,312 in the same period last year primarily as a result of higher interest rates, a $204 write-off of deferred amortization costs of our Credit Agreement due to the reduction in size of the facility in the Amended Credit Agreement, and higher average debt.
The weighted-average outstanding debt and weighted-average interest rate was $138,186 and 3.7%, respectively, compared to $129,884 and 2.6% in the same period last year.
Provision for income taxes was $16,080, compared to $1,132 in the same period last year.
This increase was primarily due to the impact of the Tax Reform and valuation allowances booked against U.S. foreign tax credit carry-forwards.
Excluding the impact of the Tax Reform, Provision for income taxes would have been $2,576.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Overview
A majority of our revenue is generated through individual sales of services and products.
Approximately 20% of our revenue is generated from long-term support contracts.
We depend on repeat client business, as well as our ability to develop new client business, to sustain and grow our revenue.
Most significant orders are subject to a competitive bidding process and, generally, competition can be significant for such new orders.
Our business model provides us with flexibility in terms of capital expenditures and other required operating expenses.
Liquidity Position
The following is a summary of our capitalization and liquidity position.
On August 9, 2017, the Company and certain of the Banks entered into the Amended Credit Agreement which reduced the capacity of the credit facility from $200,000 to $170,000.
The Company's liquidity (cash and cash equivalents and unused credit
commitments) was $40,530 at the end of the third quarter of Fiscal 2018, compared to $120,997 at the end of Fiscal 2017.
This decrease in liquidity was driven by higher outstanding debt coupled with a lower borrowing capacity.
Net debt (debt less cash and cash equivalents) was $124,405 at the end of the third quarter of Fiscal 2018, an increase of $48,906 from the end of Fiscal 2017 as a result of spending on our previously announced U.S.-based ERP project as well as increased working capital.
The ERP project spending peaked in the third quarter as we expect declines in successive quarters.
Additionally, the Company is emphasizing working capital initiatives in order to bring working capital levels in line with revenue and activity levels.
We entered into the Amended Credit Agreement in order to avoid a default of our then existing leverage covenant.
Our Amended Credit Agreement contains covenants requiring us to achieve a certain minimum adjusted EBITDA during each quarter through the first quarter of Fiscal 2019.
A leverage ratio and a fixed charge coverage ratio commence in the second quarter of Fiscal 2019 through maturity in May 2021.
Based upon our current projections, we may not be able to generate sufficient adjusted EBITDA during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2018 (ending March 31, 2018) in order to meet the minimum adjusted EBITDA covenant for that quarter.
If we fail to meet such minimum adjusted EBITDA covenant, the lenders would have the ability to exercise all of their legal and contractual remedies for default including, among others, the right to cease extending credit under the credit facility, to declare all outstanding obligations under the credit facility (including all outstanding indebtedness) to be immediately due and payable, to take action to protect its security interests in the collateral (which is substantially all of the assets of the Company) including taking possession thereof, and to increase the interest rate under the credit facility.
There can be no assurance that the Company will generate sufficient adjusted EBITDA during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2018 or in fiscal quarters thereafter in order to avoid a breach of the Amended Credit Agreement.
In addition, there can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in its efforts to limit the remedies of the lenders in the event of such default.
Consequently, the failure to maintain adequate liquidity or a default under our Amended Credit Agreement could have a material adverse effect on the Company.
Sources and Uses of Cash
The following is a summary of our sources and uses of cash.
Net cash provided by (used for) operating activities
Net cash used for operating activities was $43,132, due primarily to Net loss of $49,085, inclusive of non-cash charges, cash outflows of $19,759 and $14,701 for All other liabilities and Costs in excess of billings, respectively, partially offset by cash inflows of $5,821 and $4,021 for Accounts receivable and Accounts payable, respectively, compared to net cash provided by operating activities of $24,734 in the same period last year, due primarily to Net loss of $5,261, inclusive of non-cash charges, cash outflows of $8,953 for Costs in excess of billings, partially offset by cash inflows of $6,172 for Inventories.
Changes in the above accounts are based on average Fiscal 2018 and Fiscal 2017 exchange rates, as applicable.
Changes in working capital, and particularly changes in Accounts receivable, Costs in excess of billings and Billings in excess of cost, can have a significant impact on net cash provided by operating activities, largely due to the timing of payments and receipts.
Net cash provided by (used for) investing activities
Capital expenditures
The Company made investments of $3,618 compared to $6,141 in the same period last year which primarily related to information technology infrastructure, computer hardware and software and service vehicles.
Net cash provided by (used for) financing activities
Long-term debt
Proceeds from long-term debt was $46,882 compared to repayments of long-term debt of $25,642 in the same period last year.
Common stock repurchases
The Company did not make any discretionary investments in the form of common stock repurchases in the current period nor in the same period last year.
The Company withheld shares in the amount of $395, compared to $477 in the prior year, to satisfy employee income taxes due as a result of the vesting of certain restricted stock units.
Since the inception of the repurchase program beginning in April 1999 through December 31, 2017, the Company has repurchased 11,392,851 shares of common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $408,621, or an average purchase price per share of $35.87.
These shares do not include the treasury shares withheld for tax payments due upon the vesting of certain restricted stock units and performance shares.
Under the Amended Credit Agreement, the Company is no longer permitted to repurchase common stock through its repurchase program but is allowed to repurchase a limited amount of shares for tax payments related to the vesting certain restricted stock units and performance shares, as applicable.
This restriction is in effect until May 9, 2021.
The Company expects to use the funds that were previously available for stock repurchases to supplement spending for our previously announced U.S.-based ERP project and to develop and implement growth initiatives for the Company, both of which we believe will create long-term shareholder value.
See Note 5 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Part I of this Quarterly Report for additional information.
Dividends
The Company is no longer permitted to pay dividends under the Amended Credit Agreement.
The Company expects to use the funds that were previously available for dividends to supplement spending for our previously announced U.S.-based ERP project and to develop and implement growth initiatives for the Company, both of which we believe will create long-term shareholder value.
This restriction is in effect until May 9, 2021, the termination date of the Amended Credit Agreement.
The Company paid dividends of $7.1 million in Fiscal 2017.
Credit Agreement
On August 9, 2017, the Company and certain Banks entered into an Amendment and Joinder Agreement.
See Note 5 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Part I of this Quarterly Report and Item 1A.
Risk Factors contained in Part II of this Form 10-Q for additional information.
Legal Proceedings
See Note 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form 10-Q, which information is incorporated herein by reference.
Inflation
The overall effects of inflation on the Company have been nominal.
Although long-term inflation rates are difficult to predict, the Company continues to strive to minimize the effect of inflation through improved productivity and cost reduction programs as well as price adjustments within the constraints of market competition.
Critical Accounting Policies
The Company’s critical accounting policies require the most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain and are the most important to the portrayal of the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
The Company’s critical accounting policies are disclosed in Part II, Item 7, "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" of the Form 10-K.
The significant accounting policies used in the preparation of the Company’s consolidated financial statements are disclosed in Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements within the Form 10-K. No additional significant accounting policies have been adopted during Fiscal 2018.
Impact of Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements
There have been no accounting pronouncements adopted during Fiscal 2018 that have had a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
Cautionary Forward Looking Statements
Any forward-looking statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or in documents incorporated herein by reference are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and speak only as of the date of this Form 10-Q.
You can identify these forward-looking statements by the fact that they use words such as "should," "anticipate," "estimate," "approximate," "expect," "target," "may," "will," "project," "intend," "plan," "believe" and other words of similar meaning and expression in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance.
One can also identify forward-looking statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts.
Forward-looking statements are inherently subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected.
Although it is not possible to predict or identify all risk factors, they may include levels of business activity and operating expenses, liquidity, expenses relating to corporate compliance requirements, cash flows, global economic and business conditions, the timing, costs, and benefits of restructuring programs and other initiatives, successful marketing of the Company's product and services offerings, successful implementation of the Company's integration initiatives, such as our enterprise resource planning system initiatives, successful implementation of the Company's government contracting programs, competition, changes in foreign, political and economic conditions, fluctuating foreign currencies compared to the U.S. dollar, rapid changes in technologies, client preferences, the Company's arrangements with suppliers of voice equipment and technology, government budgetary constraints and various other matters, many of which are beyond the Company's control.
Additional risk factors are included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 and our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for Fiscal 2018.
We can give no assurance that any goal, plan or target set forth in forward-looking statements will be achieved and readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements, which speak only as of the date made.
We undertake no obligation to release publicly any revisions to forward-looking statements as a result of future events or developments and caution you not to unduly rely on any such forward-looking statements.
