Item 1. Financial Statements.



BLACK BOX CORPORATION



CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS





See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements



BLACK BOX CORPORATION



CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS









See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements



BLACK BOX CORPORATION



CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)







See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements



BLACK BOX CORPORATION



CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS







See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements



BLACK BOX CORPORATION



NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS







Business





Basis of Presentation



The accompanying unaudited interim consolidated financial statements of Black Box have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP") and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X. Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by GAAP for complete financial statements. The Company believes that these consolidated financial statements reflect all normal, recurring adjustments needed to present fairly the Company’s results for the interim periods presented. The results as of and for interim periods presented may not be indicative of the results of operations for any other interim period or for the full year. These financial statements should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company’s most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 (the "Form 10-K").



The Company’s fiscal year ends on March 31. The fiscal quarters consist of 13 weeks and end on the Saturday generally nearest each calendar quarter end, adjusted to provide relatively equivalent business days for each fiscal quarter. The actual ending dates for the periods presented in these Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 were December 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, respectively. References herein to "Fiscal Year" or "Fiscal" mean the Company’s fiscal year ended March 31 for the year referenced. All references to dollar amounts herein are presented in thousands, except per share amounts, unless otherwise noted.



The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the parent company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. Certain items in the consolidated financial statements of prior years have been reclassified to conform to the current year’s presentation. These reclassifications had no effect on reported net income (loss), comprehensive income (loss), cash flows, total assets or total stockholders' equity.



The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires Company management ("Management") to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Significant estimates in these financial statements include project progress towards completion to estimated budget, allowances for doubtful accounts receivable, sales returns, net realizable value of inventories, loss contingencies, warranty reserves, property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and goodwill. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Management believes the estimates made are reasonable.



In the second quarter of Fiscal 2018, Management completed a plan to sell the Company's current headquarters' building and adjacent vacant land and move to another local facility that better aligns to the needs of the business. At that time, Management believed it was probable that the sale of the building and land would occur in the next twelve months. As of the third quarter of Fiscal 2018, Management believes that only the sale of certain parcels of the adjacent vacant land is probable to occur in the next twelve months. These assets, all of which are Property, plant and equipment, are presented as "Assets held for sale" on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. These assets are reported under the North America Products operating segment.





Significant Accounting Policies



The significant accounting policies used in the preparation of the Company’s consolidated financial statements are disclosed in Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements within the Form 10-K. No additional significant accounting policies have been adopted during Fiscal 2018.



Recent Accounting Pronouncements



There have been no accounting pronouncements adopted during Fiscal 2018 that have had a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.





Given the scope of work required to implement the recognition and disclosure requirements under the new standard, the Company has continued to make progress through the third quarter of Fiscal 2018. Black Box will adopt the standard under the modified retrospective transition approach, which will result in a cumulative adjustment to retained earnings at the date of initial application in the first quarter Fiscal 2019. The Company has established an implementation team that has and will continue to review 1) contract terms and existing accounting policies to determine the financial impact of the standard, 2) data availability and system reports to meet the additional disclosure requirements of the standard, and 3) the control environment and internal processes to ensure the appropriate controls are in place. As we continue to assess all potential impacts of the standard, any preliminary conclusions are subject to change.















The Company’s indefinite-lived intangible assets consist solely of the Company’s trademark portfolio. The Company’s definite-lived intangible assets now consist solely of customer relationships. Historically, the Company's annual assessment of the recoverability of trademarks and long-lived assets is conducted as of the end of the second quarter of its fiscal year. However, based on the fact that we conducted an interim assessment of both our definite-lived and indefinite lived intangible assets in the second quarter of Fiscal 2018, and in order to take into account a contemporary outlook for the Company’s business units that are being developed in connection with Fiscal 2019 planning, it is expected that our annual assessment for these assets will be completed during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2018.







The following table details the estimated intangibles amortization expense for the remainder of Fiscal 2018, each of the succeeding four fiscal years and the periods thereafter.















In addition, the Company finances certain vendor-specific inventory under an unsecured revolving arrangement through third parties which provide extended payment terms beyond those offered by the vendor at no incremental cost to the Company. The outstanding balance for these unsecured revolving arrangements was $4,758 as of December 31, 2017, $4,540 of which is classified as a current liability, and $3,387 as of March 31, 2017, $3,169 of which was classified as a current liability. These balances are recorded as Other liabilities within the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets.





The Company’s obligations under the Credit Agreement were secured by substantially all of the assets of the Company’s material direct and indirect subsidiaries that are incorporated (or organized) under the laws of the District of Columbia or under the laws of any state or commonwealth of the United States and are guaranteed by such domestic subsidiaries.





Under the Amended Credit Agreement, the leverage ratio covenant is suspended until the second quarter of Fiscal 2019. The Amended Credit Agreement contains a minimum Adjusted EBITDA covenant and a provision requiring the Company to repay revolving credit loans with any excess cash. During that same period, a covenant will limit capital expenditures to an agreed upon 



amount. The ability of the Company to make dividends or other distributions (including stock repurchases other than up to a limited dollar amount for tax payments from vested equity awards) has been eliminated.



The leverage ratio covenant that starts in the second quarter of Fiscal 2019 will be 4.00 to 1.00 and will reduce to 3.00 to 1.00 over the remaining life of the credit facility. A fixed charge coverage ratio of 1.00 to 1.00 begins in the second quarter of Fiscal 2019 increasing to 1.10 to 1.00 in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2019 and thereafter. 



The Company’s obligations under the Amended Credit Agreement are secured by substantially all of the assets of the Company and the Company’s direct and indirect subsidiaries that are incorporated (or organized) under the laws of the District of Columbia or under the laws of any state or commonwealth of the United States (a “U.S. Entity”) and are guaranteed by such domestic subsidiaries. Under the Amended Credit Agreement, the Company and each U.S. Entity pledged 65% of the voting ownership interests and 100% of the non-voting ownership interests of its foreign subsidiaries.



Our Amended Credit Agreement contains covenants requiring us to achieve a certain minimum adjusted EBITDA during each quarter through the first quarter of Fiscal 2019. A leverage ratio and a fixed charge coverage ratio commence in the second quarter of Fiscal 2019 through maturity in May 2021. The covenants in our Amended Credit Agreement were determined based upon our then expectations of revenues and profitability. If we fail to achieve our expected revenues and profitability, we could fail to maintain compliance with the covenants in our Amended Credit Agreement. There can be no assurance that we will be able to remain in compliance with these or other covenants in our Amended Credit Agreement. Refer to the Liquidity and Capital Resources section of the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further information.



The maximum amount of debt outstanding under the Amended Credit Agreement, the weighted-average balance outstanding under the Amended Credit Agreement and the weighted-average interest rate on all outstanding debt for the three-months ended December 31, 2017 was $149,750, $140,462 and 4.5%, respectively, compared to $141,300, $124,304 and 2.7%, respectively, for the three-months ended December 31, 2016. The maximum amount of debt outstanding under the Amended Credit Agreement, the weighted-average balance outstanding under the Amended Credit Agreement and the weighted-average interest rate on all outstanding debt for the nine-months ended December 31, 2017 was $171,237, $138,186 and 3.7%, respectively, compared to $150,075, $129,884 and 2.6%, respectively, for the nine-months ended December 31, 2016.



As of December 31, 2017, the Company had $4,850 outstanding in letters of credit and $22,150 in unused commitments, which are limited by a financial covenant, under the Amended Credit Agreement.





The Company is exposed to certain market risks, including the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. The Company uses derivative instruments to manage financial exposures that occur in the normal course of business. It does not hold or issue derivatives for speculative trading purposes. The Company is exposed to non-performance risk from the counterparties in its derivative instruments. This risk would be limited to any unrealized gains on current positions. To help mitigate this risk, the Company transacts only with counterparties that are rated as investment grade or higher and all counterparties are monitored on a continuous basis. The fair value of the Company’s derivatives reflects this credit risk.



The Company enters into foreign currency contracts to hedge exposure to variability in expected fluctuations in foreign currencies. All of the foreign currency contracts have been designated and qualify as cash flow hedges. The effective portion of any changes in the fair value of the derivative instruments is recorded in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income ("AOCI") until the hedged forecasted transaction occurs or the recognized currency transaction affects earnings. Once the forecasted transaction occurs or the recognized currency transaction affects earnings, the effective portion of any related gains or losses on the cash flow hedge is reclassified from AOCI to the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Operations. 



As of December 31, 2017, the Company had open contracts in Australian and Canadian dollars, Danish krone, Euros, Mexican pesos, Norwegian kroner, British pounds sterling, Swedish krona, Swiss francs and Japanese yen, all of which have been designated as cash flow hedges. These contracts had a notional amount of $33,354 and will expire within 3 months. There was no hedge ineffectiveness during Fiscal 2018 or Fiscal 2017.











Recurring fair value measurements









Non-recurring fair value measurements



The Company's assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis include non-financial assets and liabilities initially measured at fair value in a business combination.





Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income







Common Stock Repurchases







During the nine-months ended December 31, 2017, the Company made tax payments of $395 and withheld 45,058 shares of common stock, which were designated as treasury shares, at an average price per share of $8.77, in order to satisfy employee income taxes due as a result of the vesting of certain restricted stock units. During the nine-months ended December 31, 2016, the Company made tax payments of $477 and withheld 39,735 shares of common stock, which were designated as treasury shares, at an average price per share of $12.01, in order to satisfy employee income taxes due as a result of the vesting of certain restricted stock units.



Since the inception of its repurchase programs beginning in April 1999 and through December 31, 2017, the Company has repurchased 11,392,851 shares of common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $408,621, or an average purchase price per share of $35.87. These shares do not include the treasury shares withheld for tax payments due upon the vesting of certain restricted stock units and performance shares. As of December 31, 2017, 1,107,149 shares were available under the most recent repurchase programs.



Under the Amended Credit Agreement, the Company is no longer permitted to repurchase common stock through its repurchase program but is allowed to repurchase a limited amount of shares for tax payments related to the vesting of certain restricted stock units and performance shares, as applicable. This restriction is in effect until May 9, 2021, the termination date of the Amended Credit Agreement. The Company expects to use the funds that were previously available for stock repurchases to supplement spending for our previously announced U.S.-based ERP project and to develop and implement growth initiatives for the Company, both of which we believe will create long-term shareholder value. See Note 5 for additional information regarding our Amended Credit Agreement.





On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was enacted, which among numerous provisions reduced the federal statutory corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%. Based on the provisions of the Tax Reform, the Company re-measured its deferred tax assets and liabilities and adjusted its estimated annual effective income tax rate to incorporate the lower federal corporate tax rate into the tax provision for the current quarter ended December 31, 2017.



During the quarter ended December 31, 2017, the Company applied the newly enacted corporate federal income tax rate, resulting in a reduction of $891 of the income tax benefit, which is reflected in the Company’s consolidated statements of income. The revaluation of deferred tax assets and liabilities at the lower enacted corporate tax rate resulted in a tax expense of $13,504. The change represents a discrete item for purposes of income tax accounting. Pursuant to SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin 118 (regarding the application of ASC 740 associated with the enactment of the Tax Reform), the Company continues to evaluate the impact of various domestic and international provisions of the Tax Reform as well as the impact of additional guidance that may be provided. The final impact of the Tax Reform may differ due to changes in interpretations, assumptions made by the Company, and the issuance of additional guidance.



The Company's provision for income taxes for the three-months ended December 31, 2017 was $18,144, an effective tax rate of (185.3)% on a loss before provision for income taxes of $9,794, compared to a provision for income taxes of $324, an effective tax rate of 19.7% on income before provision for income taxes of $1,644 for the three-months ended December 31, 2016. The increase in the provision was primarily due to the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“Tax Reform”) and valuation allowances booked against U.S. foreign tax credit carry-forwards. The Company's provision for income taxes for the nine-months ended December 31, 2017 was $16,080, an effective tax rate of (48.7)% on a loss before provision for income taxes of $33,005, compared to a provision for income taxes of $1,132, an effective tax rate of (27.4)% on a loss before provision for income taxes of $4,129 for the nine-months ended December 31, 2016. The increase in the provision was primarily due to the impact of the Tax Reform, valuation allowances booked against foreign tax credit carry-forwards, and certain state and foreign net operating loss carry-forwards. The effective tax rate for the nine-months ended December 31, 2017 of (48.7)% differs from the federal statutory rate primarily due to impact of the Tax Reform, reduction of deferred tax assets associated with equity awards, the mix of income across various taxing jurisdictions, and valuation allowances booked.



The Company provides for income taxes at the end of each interim period based on the estimated effective tax rate adjusted for certain discrete items for the full fiscal year. Cumulative adjustments to the Company's estimate are recorded in the interim period in which a change in the estimated annual effective rate is determined.



Fiscal 2013 through Fiscal 2017 remain open to examination by the Internal Revenue Service and Fiscal 2011 through Fiscal 2017 remain open to examination by certain state and foreign taxing jurisdictions.



A valuation allowance is provided on deferred tax assets if determined that it is more likely than not that the asset will not be realized. The Company considers all available evidence, both positive and negative, in assessing the need for a valuation allowance in each taxing jurisdiction. The evidence considered in evaluating deferred tax assets includes but is not limited to cumulative financial income over the three-year period ended December 31, 2017, excluding significant one-time charges for impairment (goodwill and other), the composition and reversal patterns of existing taxable and deductible temporary differences between financial reporting and tax, and subjective projected future income.



Based on the available evidence, a valuation allowance of $6,236 has been recorded against deferred tax assets relating to U.S. Federal foreign tax credits for $6,061, and state and foreign net operating losses for $17 and $158, respectively, for the three-



months ended December 31, 2017. Future positive and negative events, such as the significant underperformance relative to projected or future operating results, will be monitored accordingly and a determination will be made on the ability to realize deferred tax assets at that time.





In August 2008, the Company’s stockholders approved the 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended (the "Incentive Plan"), which replaced the 1992 Stock Option Plan, as amended, and the 1992 Director Stock Option Plan, as amended. As of December 31, 2017, the Incentive Plan is authorized to issue stock options, restricted stock units and performance shares, among other types of awards, for up to 6,498,331 shares of common stock, par value $0.001 per share (the "common stock").





Stock options



Stock option awards are granted with an exercise price equal to the closing market price of the common stock on the date of grant; such stock options generally become exercisable in equal amounts over a three-year period and have a contractual life of ten years from the grant date. The fair value of stock options is estimated on the grant date using the Black-Scholes option pricing model, which includes the following weighted-average assumptions.









The weighted-average grant-date fair value of options granted during the nine-months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 was $2.48 and $3.74, respectively. The intrinsic value of options exercised during the nine-months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 was $8 and $0, respectively. The aggregate intrinsic value in the preceding table is based on the closing stock price of the common stock on December 29, 2017, which was $3.55.







As of December 31, 2017, there was $950 of total unrecognized pre-tax stock-based compensation expense related to non-vested stock options, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.1 years.



Restricted stock units



Restricted stock unit awards are subject to a service condition and typically vest in equal amounts over a three-year period from the grant date. The fair value of restricted stock units is determined based on the number of restricted stock units granted and the closing market price of the common stock on the date of grant.







The total fair value of shares that vested during the nine-months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 was $1,902 and $2,039, respectively.



As of December 31, 2017, there was $2,480 of total unrecognized pre-tax stock-based compensation expense related to non-vested restricted stock units, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.0 years.



Performance share awards



Performance share awards are subject to one of the performance goals - the Company's Relative Total Shareholder Return ("TSR") Ranking or cumulative Adjusted EBITDA - each over a three-year period. The Company’s Relative TSR Ranking metric is based on the three-year cumulative return to stockholders from the change in stock price and dividends paid between the starting and ending dates. The fair value of performance share awards (subject to cumulative Adjusted EBITDA) is determined based on the number of performance shares granted and the closing market price of the common stock on the date of grant. The fair value of performance share awards (subject to the Company’s Relative TSR Ranking) is estimated on the grant date using the Monte-Carlo simulation valuation method which includes the following weighted-average assumptions.









The total fair value of shares that vested during the nine-months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 was $0 and $0, respectively, as there were no payouts because certain performance obligations were not met.



As of December 31, 2017, there was $1,355 of total unrecognized pre-tax stock-based compensation expense related to non-vested performance share awards, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.1 years.









The Weighted-average common shares outstanding (diluted) computation is not impacted during any period where the exercise price of a stock option is greater than the average market price. There were 1,872,446 and 1,165,620 non-dilutive equity awards outstanding for the three-months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, and 1,808,928 and 1,202,159 non-dilutive equity awards outstanding for the nine-months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, that are not included in the corresponding period Weighted-average common shares outstanding (diluted) computation.





The Company conducts business globally and is managed on a geographic-service type basis consisting of four operating segments which are (i) North America Products, (ii) North America Services, (iii) International Products and (iv) International Services. These operating segments are also the Company's reporting units for purposes of testing goodwill for impairment and its reporting segments for financial reporting purposes. Revenues within our North America segments are primarily attributed to the United States while revenues within our International segments are attributed to countries in Europe, the Pacific Rim and Latin America. 



The accounting policies of the operating segments are the same as those of the Company. The Company allocates resources to its operating segments and evaluates the performance of the operating segments based upon operating income. 









In connection with the Amended Credit Agreement disclosed in Note 5, the Company is required to make payments of $6,250 on its term loan over the next 12 months. Correspondingly, the Company expects its long-term payments (greater than 1 year) under the credit facility to decrease by $6,250. 



The Company is involved in, or has pending, various legal proceedings, claims, suits and complaints arising out of the normal course of business. Based on the facts currently available to the Company, Management believes these matters are adequately provided for, covered by insurance, without merit or not probable that an unfavorable material outcome will result.



There has been no other significant or unusual activity during Fiscal 2018.







The Company has incurred and continues to incur costs related to facility consolidations, such as idle facility rent obligations and the write-off of leasehold improvements, and employee severance (collectively referred to as “restructuring expense”) in a continued effort to consolidate back office functions and to make its organization more efficient. These restructuring activities are compartmentalized and are not part of an overall plan and therefore the Company cannot estimate the total amount to be incurred in connection with the activity. Employee severance is generally payable within the next twelve months with certain facility costs extending through Fiscal 2019. 



The following table summarizes the changes to the restructuring liability for the periods presented.





Of the $3,877 above, $3,829 is classified as a current liability under Other liabilities on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets for the period ended December 31, 2017.







Company management is continuing to assess ways to align costs with revenue to improve profitability.



Item 1A. Risk Factors.



The following is provided to update the following risk factors previously disclosed in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors of the Form 10-K and Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors of the Form 10-Q for the first quarter in Fiscal 2018.



We can provide no assurance that we will continue to have adequate liquidity as we are dependent upon our senior credit facility to fund our cash needs. Our working capital demands can fluctuate greatly due to cash needs to fund new client contracts in advance of contractual payment dates. Due to our decreased revenues and profitability, and increased investments in our business under our transformation efforts, such as ERP migrations previously disclosed, net cash provided by operating activities may be insufficient to fund our operations and growth initiatives. We are dependent upon our senior credit facility to fund our cash needs. 



In August 2017, we amended our senior credit agreement to avoid a default of our then existing leverage covenant. Our amended credit agreement contains covenants requiring us to achieve a certain minimum adjusted EBITDA during each quarter through the first quarter of Fiscal 2019. A leverage ratio and a fixed charge coverage ratio commence in the second quarter of Fiscal 2019 through maturity in May 2021. 



Based upon our current projections, we may not be able to generate sufficient adjusted EBITDA during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2018 (ending March 31, 2018) in order to meet the minimum adjusted EBITDA covenant for that quarter. If we fail to meet such minimum adjusted EBITDA covenant, the lenders would have the ability to exercise all of their legal and contractual remedies for default including, among others, the right to cease extending credit under the credit facility, to declare all outstanding obligations under the credit facility (including all outstanding indebtedness) to be immediately due and payable, to take action to protect its security interests in the collateral (which is substantially all of the assets of the Company) including taking possession thereof, and to increase the interest rate under the credit facility. 





There can be no assurance that the Company will generate sufficient adjusted EBITDA during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2018 or in fiscal quarters thereafter in order to avoid a breach of the Amended Credit Agreement. In addition, there can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in its efforts to limit the remedies of the lenders in the event of such default. As a result, the failure to maintain adequate liquidity or a default under our Amended Credit Agreement could have a material adverse effect on the Company.



Item 6. Exhibits.





SIGNATURE



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.



BLACK BOX CORPORATION







David J. Russo



Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, 



Treasurer and Principal Accounting Officer



