The terms "MTS," "we," "us," "the Company" or "our" in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, unless the context otherwise requires, refer to MTS Systems Corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
The accompanying consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2018 filed with the SEC.
Interim results of operations for the third fiscal quarter ended June 29, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the full fiscal year.
The following accounting policies have been updated since our fiscal year 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), followed by related amendments, on September 30, 2018 under the modified retrospective transition method.
2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), followed by related amendments (collectively, "the new lease standard"), which requires lessees to recognize most leases on the balance sheet for the rights and obligations created by those leases.
Under the new lease standard, a company recognizes a right-of-use asset, representing the right to use the underlying asset for the lease term, and a corresponding lease liability for all leases with terms greater than 12 months.
Adoption of the new lease standard is required for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within that annual period, which is our fiscal year 2020.
The new guidance is required to be adopted using a modified retrospective transition method, and an optional transition method may be elected to use the effective date as the date of initial application on transition.
We intend to adopt the new lease standard for our fiscal year 2020 under the optional transition method with an effective date of September 29, 2019.
We are currently planning to elect the package of practical expedients to not reassess prior conclusions related to contracts containing leases, lease classification and initial direct costs, and we are currently evaluating the other practical expedients available under the new lease standard.
We continue to make progress with preparation for the adoption and implementation of the new lease standard, including assessing the completeness of our lease arrangements, evaluating practical expedients and accounting policy elections, revising our lease-related accounting policies, assessing impacts to controls, and implementing a lease software solution.
We anticipate the adoption of the new lease standard will result in an increase in assets and liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.On November 21, 2018, we amended the Credit Agreement to increase the size of our Revolving Credit Facility from $120,000 to $150,000 and to extend the expiration date to July 5, 2022.
See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further discussion of the amendment to the Credit Agreement.
During the third quarter of fiscal year 2019, certain holders of our TEUs elected to early convert the equity component on 394 of our outstanding TEUs at the minimum conversion rate of 1.9841 which resulted in the issuance of 781 shares of our common stock.
See Note 2 and Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the impact of this adoption on our Consolidated Income Statements and Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The following tables compare results of operations, separately identifying the estimated impact of currency translation, the acquisition of E2M in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 and restructuring costs incurred in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019.A discussion of our risk factors can be found in Item 1A of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2018.