Item 1.
Financial Statements.
HARRIS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).
HARRIS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).
HARRIS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).
HARRIS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).
HARRIS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF EQUITY
See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
Note A — Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Standards
Basis of Presentation
Amounts contained in this Report may not always add to totals due to rounding.
Reclassifications
The classification of certain prior-period amounts has been adjusted in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) to conform with current-period classifications.
Reclassifications include certain direct selling and bid and proposal costs from the “Cost of product sales and services” line item to the “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited) and in these Notes.
Use of Estimates
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and these Notes and related disclosures.
These estimates and assumptions are based on experience and other information available prior to issuance of the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and these Notes.
Materially different results can occur as circumstances change and additional information becomes known.
Adoption of New Accounting Standards
As discussed above, we adopted ASC 606 effective June 30, 2018.
This standard supersedes nearly all revenue recognition guidance under GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards and supersedes some cost guidance for construction-type and production-type contracts.
The guidance in this standard is principles-based, and, consequently, entities are required to use more judgment and make more estimates than under prior guidance, including identifying contract performance obligations, estimating variable consideration to include in the contract price and allocating the transaction price to separate performance obligations.
The core principle of this standard is that entities should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods and services.
To help financial statement users better understand the nature, amount,
timing and potential uncertainty of the revenue and cash flows, this standard requires significantly more interim and annual disclosures.
We adopted the requirements of the new standard using the full retrospective transition method.
We opted for this transition method because we believe it provides enhanced comparability and transparency across periods.
We elected to apply the practical expedient related to backlog disclosures for prior reporting periods and the practical expedient related to evaluating the effects of contract modifications that occurred prior to the earliest period presented.
No other transition practical expedients were applied.
Retrospective application of this standard resulted in the recognition of a cumulative-effect adjustment of $15 million to reduce the opening balance of retained earnings at July 2, 2016.
Accounting Standards Issued But Not Yet Effective
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued a new lease standard that supersedes existing lease guidance under GAAP.
This standard requires, among other things, the recognition of right-of-use assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for most lease arrangements and disclosure of certain information about leasing arrangements.
This standard currently allows two transition methods with certain practical expedients available.
Companies may elect to use the modified retrospective approach for leases that exist or are entered into after the beginning of the earliest comparative period in the financial statements or to initially apply this standard at the adoption date and recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the period of adoption.
This standard is effective for fiscal years, and interim reporting periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2018, which for us is our fiscal 2020.
We have developed a project plan to evaluate the impact of this standard and design and implement future processes, tools and controls.
The majority of our current lease arrangements are classified as operating leases under existing GAAP lease guidance, and we expect they will continue to be classified as operating leases under the new standard.
Although we are continuing to evaluate the impact to our consolidated balance sheet of recognizing right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for the majority of our current lease obligations, which could be material, we do not expect this standard to have a material impact on our results of operations or cash flows.
We have not yet made a decision on the transition method, as this determination is primarily dependent on the completion of our evaluation.
Note B — Stock Options and Other Share-Based Compensation
During the two quarters ended December 28, 2018, we had options or other share-based compensation outstanding under two shareholder-approved employee stock incentive plans (“SIPs”), the Harris Corporation 2005 Equity Incentive Plan (As Amended and Restated Effective August 27, 2010) and the Harris Corporation 2015 Equity Incentive Plan (the “2015 EIP”).
Grants of share-based awards after October 23, 2015 were made under our 2015 EIP.
We believe that share-based awards more closely align the interests of participants with those of shareholders.
Certain share-based awards provide for accelerated vesting if there is a change in control (as defined under our SIPs).
The compensation cost related to our share-based awards that was charged against income was $15 million and $29 million for the quarter and two quarters ended December 28, 2018, respectively, and $13 million and $24 million for the quarter and two quarters ended December 29, 2017, respectively.
Note C — Restructuring and Other Exit Costs
We record charges for restructuring and other exit activities related to sales or terminations of product lines, closures or relocations of business activities, changes in management structure and fundamental reorganizations that affect the nature and focus of operations.
Such charges include termination benefits, contract termination costs and costs to consolidate facilities or relocate employees.
We record these charges at their fair value when incurred.
In cases where employees are required to render service until they are terminated in order to receive the termination benefits and will be retained beyond the minimum retention period, we record the expense ratably over the future service period.
These charges are included as a component of the “Cost of product sales and services” and “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line items in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited).
In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, we recorded a $5 million charge for consolidation of certain Exelis Inc. (collectively with its subsidiaries, “Exelis”) facilities initiated in fiscal 2017.
This charge is included as a component of the “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line item in our Consolidated Statement of Income in our Fiscal 2017-2018 Update 8-K. We had liabilities of $18 million and $27 million at December 28, 2018 and June 29, 2018, respectively, associated with this integration activity and with previous restructuring actions.
The majority of the remaining liabilities at December 28, 2018 represent lease obligations associated with exited facilities with remaining terms of five years or less.
Note D — Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss
Accounting Pronouncements” in our Fiscal 2017-2018 Update 8-K for additional information regarding this accounting standards update.
Note E — Receivables
We have a receivables sale agreement (“RSA”) with a third-party financial institution that permits us to sell, on a non-recourse basis, up to $50 million of outstanding receivables at any given time.
From time to time, we have sold certain customer receivables under the RSA, which we continue to service and collect on behalf of the third-party financial institution.
Receivables sold pursuant to the RSA meet the requirements for sales accounting under ASC 860, Transfers and Servicing, and, accordingly, are derecognized from our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited) at the time of sale.
Outstanding accounts receivable sold pursuant to the RSA were not material at December 28, 2018 and June 29, 2018.
Impairment losses related to receivables from contracts with customers were not material during the quarter or two quarters ended December 28, 2018 or the quarter or two quarters ended December 29, 2017.
Note F — Contract Assets and Contract Liabilities
 Contract assets include unbilled amounts typically resulting from revenue recognized exceeding amounts billed to customers for contracts utilizing the percentage of completion (“POC”) cost-to-cost revenue recognition method.
We bill customers as work progresses in accordance with agreed-upon contractual terms, either at periodic intervals, upon achievement of contractual milestones or upon deliveries and, in certain arrangements, the customer may withhold payment of a small portion of the contract price until contract completion.
Contract liabilities include advance payments and billings in excess of revenue recognized, including deferred revenue associated with extended product warranties.
Contract assets and liabilities are reported on a contract-by-contract basis at the end of each reporting period.
The increase in contract liabilities in the two quarters ended December 28, 2018 was primarily due to an increase in the receipt of advance payments and the timing of contractual billing milestones.
Changes in contract assets and contract liabilities balances during the quarter and two quarters ended December 28, 2018 were not materially impacted by any factors other than those described above.
Impairment losses related to our contract assets were not material during the two quarters ended December 28, 2018 and December 29, 2017.
For the quarter and two quarters ended December 28, 2018, we recognized revenue of $49 million and $207 million, respectively, related to contract liabilities that were outstanding at June 29, 2018.
For the quarter and two quarters ended December 29, 2017, we recognized revenue of $53 million and $163 million, respectively, related to contract liabilities that were outstanding at June 30, 2017.
Note G — Inventories
Note H — Property, Plant and Equipment
Depreciation and amortization expense related to property, plant and equipment was $33 million and $68 million for the quarter and two quarters ended December 28, 2018, respectively, and $36 million and $73 million for the quarter and two quarters ended December 29, 2017, respectively.
Note I — Accrued Warranties
We also sell extended product warranties and recognize revenue from these arrangements over the warranty period.
Costs of warranty services under these arrangements are recognized as incurred and are included as a component of the “Contract liabilities” and “Other long-term liabilities” line items in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited).
Deferred revenue associated with extended product warranties was $16 million at December 28, 2018 and June 29, 2018.
Note J — Postretirement Benefit Plans
The service cost component of net periodic benefit income is included in the “Cost of product sales and services” and “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line items in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited).
The non-service cost components of net periodic pension income are included in the “Non-operating income” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited).
We made a $300 million voluntary contribution to our U.S. qualified pension plans in the third quarter of fiscal 2018.
As a result of this voluntary contribution as well as a $400 million voluntary contribution made during fiscal 2017, we made no contributions to our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans during the quarter and two quarters ended December 28, 2018, and we currently anticipate making no contributions to our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans and minor contributions to a non-U.S. pension plan during the remainder of fiscal 2019.
We made no contributions to our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans during the quarter and two quarters ended December 29, 2017.
The U.S.
Salaried Retirement Plan (“U.S.
SRP”), a U.S. qualified pension plan, is our largest defined benefit pension plan, with assets valued at $4.6 billion and a projected benefit obligation of $5.2 billion as of June 29, 2018.
Effective December 31, 2016, accruals under the U.S. SRP benefit formula were frozen for all employees and replaced with a 1% cash balance benefit formula for certain employees who were not highly compensated on December 31, 2016.
Note K — Income From Continuing Operations Per Share
Potential dilutive common shares primarily consist of employee stock options and restricted and performance unit awards.
Income from continuing operations per diluted common share excludes the antidilutive impact of 399,243 and 279,705 weighted average share-based awards outstanding for the quarter and two quarters ended December 28, 2018, respectively, and 222 and 81,496 weighted average share-based awards outstanding for the quarter and two quarters ended December 29, 2017, respectively.
Note L — Income Taxes
On December 22, 2017, H.R.1, also known as the “Tax Cuts and Jobs Act,” was signed into U.S. law (“Tax Act”).
Among other provisions, the Tax Act reduced the U.S. statutory corporate income tax rate from a maximum 35 percent to a flat 21 percent, effective January 1, 2018.
Effective Tax Rate
Our effective tax rate was 16.5 percent in the two quarters ended December 28, 2018 compared with 34.7 percent in the two quarters ended December 29, 2017.
In addition to the items noted above for the quarters ended December 28, 2018 and December 29, 2017, our effective tax rate for the two quarters ended December 28, 2018 and December 29, 2017 benefited from the favorable impact of excess tax benefits related to equity-based compensation.
Tax Law Changes
During the quarter ended December 28, 2018, we completed our accounting for the income tax impact of enactment of the Tax Act and there were no material changes from the estimates reported in our Fiscal 2017-2018 Update 8-K.
We have also completed our evaluation of the U.S. federal corporate income tax impacts of the Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income and Foreign-Derived Intangible Income provisions of the Tax Act, and our tax expense includes the impact of these provisions as a period cost in our effective tax rate.
Note M — Fair Value Measurements
•Level 1 — Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
•Level 2 — Observable inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1, including quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets; quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active; and inputs other than quoted prices that are observable or are derived principally from, or corroborated by, observable market data by correlation or other means.
•Level 3 — Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity, are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities, and reflect our own assumptions about the assumptions market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability developed using the best information available in the circumstances.
In certain instances, fair value is estimated using quoted market prices obtained from external pricing services.
In obtaining such data from the external pricing services, we have evaluated the methodologies used to develop the estimate of fair value in order to assess whether such valuations are representative of fair value, including net asset value (“NAV”).
Additionally, in certain circumstances, the NAV reported by an asset manager may be adjusted when sufficient evidence indicates NAV is not representative of fair value.
Note N — Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities
In the normal course of business, we are exposed to global market risks, including the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
We use derivative instruments to manage our exposure to such risks and formally document all relationships between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as the risk-management objective and strategy for undertaking hedge transactions.
We also may enter into derivative instruments that are not designated as hedges and do not qualify for hedge accounting.
We recognize all derivatives in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited) at fair value.
We do not hold or issue derivatives for speculative trading purposes.
At December 28, 2018, we had two open foreign currency forward contracts with an aggregate notional amount of $5 million, one of which had a notional amount of $4 million and was classified as a fair value hedge, and the other had a notional amount of $1 million and was classified as a cash flow hedge.
This compares with open foreign currency forward contracts with an aggregate notional amount of $39 million at June 29, 2018, of which $4 million were classified as fair value hedges and $35 million were classified as cash flow hedges.
At December 28, 2018, contract expiration dates ranged from 3 days to approximately 3 months with a weighted average contract life of 2 months.
Fair Value Hedges
We use foreign currency forward contracts and options to hedge certain balance sheet items, including foreign currency denominated accounts receivable and inventory.
Changes in the value of the derivatives and the related hedged items are reflected in earnings, in the “Cost of product sales and services” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited).
At December 28, 2018, we had an outstanding foreign currency forward contract denominated in the Canadian Dollar to hedge a certain balance sheet item.
The net gains or losses on foreign currency forward contracts designated as fair value hedges were not material in the quarter or two quarters ended December 28, 2018 or in the quarter or two quarters ended December 29, 2017.
In addition, no amounts were recognized in earnings in the quarter or two quarters ended December 28, 2018 or in the quarter or two quarters ended December 29, 2017 related to hedged firm commitments that no longer qualify as fair value hedges.
Cash Flow Hedges
We use foreign currency forward contracts and options to hedge off-balance sheet future foreign currency commitments and also have hedged U.S. Dollar payments to suppliers to maintain our anticipated profit margins in our international operations.
At December 28, 2018, we had an outstanding foreign currency forward contract denominated in the Euro to hedge a certain forecasted transaction.
The net gains or losses from cash flow hedges recognized in earnings or recorded in other comprehensive income, including gains or losses related to hedge ineffectiveness, were not material in the quarter or two quarters ended December 28, 2018 or in the quarter or two quarters ended December 29, 2017.
Note O — Changes in Estimates
Contract Estimates
 Under the POC cost-to-cost method of revenue recognition, a single estimated profit margin is used to recognize profit for each performance obligation over its period of performance.
Recognition of profit on a contract requires estimates of the total cost at completion and transaction price and the measurement of progress towards completion.
Due to the long-term nature of many of our contracts, developing the estimated total cost at completion and total transaction price often requires judgment.
Factors that must be considered in estimating the cost of the work to be completed include the nature and complexity of the work to be performed, subcontractor performance and the risk and impact of delayed performance.
Factors that must be considered in estimating the total transaction price include contractual cost or performance incentives (such as incentive fees, award fees and penalties) and other forms of variable consideration as well as our historical experience and expectation for performance on the contract.
At the outset of each contract, we gauge its complexity and perceived risks and establish an
estimated total cost at completion in line with these expectations.
After establishing the estimated total cost at completion, we follow a standard Estimate at Completion (“EAC”) process in which we review the progress and performance on our ongoing contracts at least quarterly and, in many cases, more frequently.
If we successfully retire risks associated with the technical, schedule and cost aspects of a contract, we may lower our estimated total cost at completion commensurate with the retirement of these risks.
Conversely, if we are not successful in retiring these risks, we may increase our estimated total cost at completion.
Additionally, as the contract progresses, our estimates of total transaction price may increase or decrease if, for example, we receive award fees that are higher or lower than expected.
When adjustments in estimated total costs at completion or in estimated total transaction price are determined, the related impact on operating income is recognized using the cumulative catch-up method, which recognizes in the current period the cumulative effect of such adjustments for all prior periods.
Any anticipated losses on these contracts are fully recognized in the period in which the losses become evident.
Net EAC adjustments resulting from changes in estimates impacted our operating income favorably by $2 million ($.02 per diluted share) and unfavorably by $1 million for the quarter and two quarters ended December 28, 2018, respectively, and unfavorably by $16 million ($11 million after-tax or $.09 per diluted share) and $11 million ($8 million after-tax or $.06 per diluted share) for the quarter and two quarters ended December 29, 2017, respectively.
Revenue recognized from performance obligations satisfied in prior periods was $9 million and $16 million for the quarter and two quarters ended December 28, 2018, respectively, and $16 million and $30 million for the quarter and two quarters ended December 29, 2017, respectively.
Income Taxes
 See Note L — Income Taxes in these Notes for changes in estimates disclosures associated with our accounting for income taxes.
Note P — Backlog
Backlog, which is the equivalent of our remaining performance obligations, represents the future revenue we expect to recognize as we perform on our current contracts.
Backlog comprises both funded backlog (i.e., firm orders for which funding is authorized and appropriated) and unfunded backlog.
Backlog excludes unexercised contract options and potential orders under ordering-type contracts, such as indefinite delivery, indefinite quantity contracts.
At December 28, 2018, our ending backlog was $8.0 billion.
We expect to recognize approximately half of the revenue associated with this backlog within the next twelve months and the substantial majority of the revenue associated with this backlog within the next 3 years.
Note Q — Business Segment Information
•Communication Systems, serving markets in tactical communications and defense products, including tactical ground and airborne radio communications solutions and night vision technology, and in public safety networks;
•Electronic Systems, providing electronic warfare, avionics, and command, control, communications, computers, intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (“C4ISR”) solutions for defense and classified customers and mission-critical communication systems for civil and military aviation and other customers; and
•Space and Intelligence Systems, providing intelligence, space protection, geospatial, complete Earth observation, universe exploration, positioning, navigation and timing (“PNT”), and environmental solutions for national security, defense, civil and commercial customers, using advanced sensors, antennas and payloads, as well as ground processing and information analytics.
We evaluate each segment’s performance based on segment operating income or loss, which we define as profit or loss from operations before income taxes, including pension income and excluding interest income and expense, royalties and related intellectual property expenses, equity method investment income or loss and gains or losses from securities and other investments.
Intersegment sales are generally transferred at cost to the buying segment, and the sourcing segment recognizes a profit that is eliminated.
The “Corporate eliminations” line item in the table below represents the elimination of intersegment sales.
The “Unallocated corporate expense and corporate eliminations” line item in the table below represents the portion of
corporate expenses not allocated to our business segments and the elimination of intersegment profits.
The “Pension adjustment” line item in the table below represents the reconciliation of the non-service components of net periodic pension and postretirement benefit costs, which are a component of segment operating income but are included in the “Non-operating income” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited) as a result of our adoption of ASU 2017-07 as discussed in Note A — Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Standards in these Notes.
The non-service components of net periodic pension and postretirement benefit costs include interest cost, expected return on plan assets and amortization of net actuarial gain.
Disaggregation of Revenue
Note R — Legal Proceedings and Contingencies
Merger Litigation
In connection with our pending merger with L3 (see Note S — Pending Merger in these Notes for additional information), two putative class action lawsuits and one individual lawsuit were filed against L3 and its directors (together, the “L3 Parties”) in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York between December 19, 2018 and January 15, 2019, and a third putative class action lawsuit, Kent v. L3 Technologies, Inc., et al., was filed against the L3 Parties and Harris Corporation and its wholly owned subsidiary, Leopard Merger Sub Inc. (Harris Corporation and Leopard Merger Sub Inc., the “Harris Parties”), in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware on January 4, 2019.
The complaints in the lawsuits contain substantially similar allegations contending, among other things, that the registration statement on Form S-4 in support of the pending merger misstates or fails to disclose certain allegedly material information in violation of federal securities laws.
The complaint in the Kent lawsuit further alleges that the Harris Parties are liable for these violations as “controlling persons” of L3 within the meaning of federal securities laws.
The complaints in all four lawsuits generally seek injunctive relief enjoining the merger, damages and costs, among other remedies.
Additional lawsuits in connection with the merger may be filed in the future.
Although the ultimate resolution of these lawsuits cannot be predicted with certainty, and an adverse ruling in any such lawsuit may cause the merger to be delayed or not to be completed, which could cause us not to realize some or all of the anticipated benefits of the merger, we believe that these lawsuits are without merit and intend to defend vigorously against them and any other lawsuits challenging the pending merger.
Therefore, at this time, we do not believe the ultimate resolution of these lawsuits will have a material adverse effect on us or the merger.
Environmental Matters
Note S — Pending Merger
On October 14, 2018, we announced that on October 12, 2018, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger Agreement”), with L3 and Leopard Merger Sub Inc., our wholly owned subsidiary (“Merger Sub”), pursuant to which we and L3 have agreed to combine in an all-stock merger of equals.
Under the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement, L3 shareholders will receive a fixed exchange ratio of 1.30 shares of Harris common stock for each share of L3 common stock.
Upon closing of the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement, Harris Corporation will be re-named “L3 Harris Technologies, Inc.” and Merger Sub will merge with and into L3, with L3 being the surviving corporation and becoming a wholly-owned subsidiary of L3 Harris Technologies, Inc., which will be owned on a fully diluted basis approximately 54 percent by Harris shareholders and 46 percent by L3 shareholders.
Upon closing, the merger will be accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting, and Harris will be treated as the accounting acquirer.
The Merger Agreement has been unanimously approved by the Board of Directors of each company.
The consummation of the merger is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of certain conditions, including, among others, approval by the shareholders of each company and the expiration or earlier termination of any applicable waiting period, and the receipt of approvals under domestic and certain foreign antitrust and competition laws, including the expiration of the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended (the “HSR Act”).
In connection with the proposed merger, we and L3 each filed a Notification and Report Form under the HSR Act (an “HSR Notification”) with the U.S. Federal Trade Commission and the DOJ on November 9, 2018.
We voluntarily withdrew our HSR Notification effective as of December 10, 2018 and re-filed our HSR Notification on December 11, 2018.
As part of the DOJ’s review of the merger, we and L3 each received on January 10, 2019 a request for additional information and documentary materials (the “Second Request”) from the DOJ, which extends the waiting period under the HSR Act until 30 days after both we and L3 have complied with the Second Request or such later time as the parties may agree with the DOJ, unless the waiting period is terminated earlier.
We and L3 continue to work cooperatively with the DOJ on its review of the merger.
As part of the regulatory process, we are moving proactively to explore the possible sale of our Night Vision business within our Communication Systems segment.
The assets and liabilities of our Night Vision business were classified as held for use in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited) at December 28, 2018 and will continue to be so classified unless the held for sale criteria are met, which has not occurred as of the date of this Report, because our Board of Directors has not approved commitment to any plan of sale.
We and L3 continue to expect the merger to close in the previously announced time frame of mid-calendar year 2019, although we can give no assurances regarding the timing or occurrence of closing.
L3 is a prime contractor in intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (“ISR”) systems, aircraft sustainment (including modifications and fleet management of special mission aircraft), simulation and training, night vision and image intensification equipment and security and detection systems headquartered in New York, New York.
L3 is also a provider of a broad range of communication, electronic and sensor systems used on military, homeland security and commercial platforms.
L3 employs approximately 31,000 employees and its customers include the U.S. Department of Defense and its prime contractors, U.S. government intelligence agencies, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, foreign governments and domestic and commercial customers.
L3 generated calendar 2018 revenue of approximately $10 billion.
The foregoing description of the Merger Agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby is not complete and is subject to, and qualified in its entirety by reference to, the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of October 12, 2018, by and among L3, us, and Merger Sub, a copy of which was filed as an exhibit to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on October 16, 2018.
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
To the Shareholders and Board of Directors of Harris Corporation
Results of Review of Interim Financial Statements
We have reviewed the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheet of Harris Corporation (the Company) as of December 28, 2018, the related condensed consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, and equity for the quarter and two quarters ended December 28, 2018 and December 29, 2017, the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows for the two quarters ended December 28, 2018 and December 29, 2017, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the “condensed consolidated interim financial statements”).
Based on our reviews, we are not aware of any material modifications that should be made to the condensed consolidated interim financial statements for them to be in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
We have previously audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the consolidated balance sheet of the Company as of June 29, 2018, the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, cash flows and equity for the year then ended, and the related notes and financial statement schedule (not presented herein); and in our report dated August 27, 2018, except for the retrospective changes for revenue and periodic pension and postretirement benefit costs described in Note 2 and the subsequent event described in Note 25 as to which the date is December 13, 2018, we expressed an unqualified audit opinion on those consolidated financial statements.
In our opinion, the information set forth in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheet as of June 29, 2018, is fairly stated, in all material respects, in relation to the consolidated balance sheet from which it has been derived.
Basis for Review Results
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management.
We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and required to be independent with respect to the company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the SEC and the PCAOB.
We conducted our review in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB.
A review of interim financial statements consists principally of applying analytical procedures and making inquiries of persons responsible for financial and accounting matters.
It is substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB, the objective of which is the expression of an opinion regarding the financial statements taken as a whole.
Accordingly, we do not express such an opinion.
Orlando, Florida
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings.
Merger Litigation.
As described in Note R — Legal Proceedings and Contingencies in the Notes, in connection with our pending merger with L3 (see Note S — Pending Merger in the Notes for additional information), two putative class action lawsuits and one individual lawsuit were filed against the L3 Parties in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York between December 19, 2018 and January 15, 2019, and a third putative class action lawsuit, Kent v. L3 Technologies, Inc., et al., was filed against the L3 Parties and the Harris Parties in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware on January 4, 2019.
The complaints in the lawsuits contain substantially similar allegations contending, among other things, that the registration statement on Form S-4 in support of the pending merger misstates or fails to disclose certain allegedly material information in violation of federal securities laws.
The complaint in the Kent lawsuit further alleges that the Harris Parties are liable for these violations as “controlling persons” of L3 within the meaning of federal securities laws.
The complaints in all four lawsuits generally seek injunctive relief enjoining the merger, damages and costs, among other remedies.
Additional lawsuits in connection with the merger may be filed in the future.
Although the ultimate resolution of these lawsuits cannot be predicted with certainty, and an adverse ruling in any such lawsuit may cause the merger to be delayed or not to be completed, which could cause us not to realize some or all of the anticipated benefits of the merger, we believe that these lawsuits are without merit and intend to defend vigorously against them and any other lawsuits challenging the pending merger.
Therefore, at this time, we do not believe the ultimate resolution of these lawsuits will have a material adverse effect on us or the merger.
Tax Audits.
Our tax filings are subject to audit by taxing authorities in jurisdictions where we conduct or conducted business.
These audits may result in assessments of additional taxes that are subsequently resolved with the authorities or ultimately through legal proceedings.
We believe we have adequately accrued for any ultimate amounts that are likely to result from these audits; however, final assessments, if any, could be different from the amounts recorded in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).
Item 1A.
Risk Factors.
Investors should carefully review and consider the information regarding certain factors that could materially affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows as set forth under Item 1A.
“Risk Factors” in our Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K.
Except as set forth below in this Item 1A.
“Risk Factors,” we do not believe that there have been any material changes to the risk factors previously disclosed in our Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K. We may disclose changes to such risk factors or disclose additional risk factors from time to time in our future filings with the SEC.
Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe not to be material also may adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
•Because the exchange ratio is fixed and will not be adjusted in the event of any change in either our or L3’s stock price, the value of the shares of the combined company is uncertain.
•The market price for shares of common stock of the combined company following the completion of the merger may be affected by factors different from, or in addition to, those that historically have affected or currently affect the market prices of shares of our common stock and L3 common stock.
•The shares of common stock of the combined company to be received by L3 stockholders as a result of the merger will have rights different from the shares of L3 common stock.
•Our stockholders and L3 stockholders will each have reduced ownership and voting interest in and will exercise less influence over management of the combined company.
•Until the completion of the merger or the termination of the merger agreement in accordance with its terms, we and L3 are each prohibited from entering into certain transactions and taking certain actions that might otherwise be beneficial to us or L3 and our respective stockholders.
•Obtaining required approvals and satisfying closing conditions may prevent or delay completion of the merger.
•We and L3 must obtain certain regulatory approvals and clearances to consummate the merger, which, if delayed, not granted or granted with unacceptable conditions, could prevent, substantially delay or impair consummation of the merger, result in additional expenditures of money and resources or reduce the anticipated benefits of the merger.
•Failure to attract, motivate and retain executives and other key employees could diminish the anticipated benefits of the merger.
•The merger, including uncertainty regarding the merger, may cause customers, suppliers or strategic partners to delay or defer decisions concerning us and L3 and adversely affect each company’s ability to effectively manage their respective businesses.
•The opinions rendered to us and L3 from our respective financial advisors will not reflect changes in circumstances between the dates of such opinions and the completion of the merger.
•Whether or not the merger is completed, the announcement and pendency of the merger could cause disruptions in the businesses of us and L3, which could have an adverse effect on our respective businesses and financial results.
•The merger agreement may be terminated in accordance with its terms and the merger may not be consummated.
•The termination of the merger agreement could negatively impact us or L3.
•The directors and executive officers of us and L3 have interests and arrangements that may be different from, or in addition to, those of our and L3 stockholders generally.
•We or L3 may waive one or more of the closing conditions without re-soliciting stockholder approval.
•The merger agreement contains provisions that could discourage a potential competing acquirer that might be willing to pay more to acquire or merge with either us or L3.
•We and L3 each will incur significant transaction, merger-related and restructuring costs in connection with the merger.
•Our stockholders and L3 stockholders will not be entitled to appraisal rights in the merger.
•Litigation filed against the L3 Parties and the Harris Parties could prevent or delay the consummation of the merger or result in the payment of damages following completion of the merger.
•The failure to successfully combine the businesses of us and L3 may adversely affect the combined company’s future results.
•The combined company may not be able to retain customers or suppliers or customers or suppliers may seek to modify contractual obligations with the combined company, which could have an adverse effect on the combined company’s business and operations.
•The combined company may be exposed to increased litigation, which could have an adverse effect on the combined company’s business and operations.
•Combining the businesses of us and L3 may be more difficult, costly or time-consuming than expected and the combined company may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the merger, which may adversely affect the combined company’s business results and negatively affect the value of the common stock of the combined company following the merger.
•The failure to integrate successfully the businesses and operations of us and L3 in the expected time frame may adversely affect the combined company’s future results.
•Our and L3’s unaudited prospective financial information is inherently subject to uncertainties, the unaudited pro forma financial data included in our Form S-4 registration statement related to the proposed merger is preliminary and the combined company’s actual financial position and results of operations after the merger may differ materially from those estimates and the unaudited pro forma financial data included in such registration statement.
Specifically, the unaudited pro forma combined financial data does not reflect the effect of any divestitures that may be required in connection with the merger.
•The revenue of the combined company will depend on our and L3’s ability to maintain certain levels of government business.
The loss of contracts with U.S. and non-U.S. government agencies could adversely affect the combined company’s revenue.
•Third parties may terminate or alter existing contracts or relationships with us or L3.
•The combined company may be unable to retain our and L3 personnel successfully after the merger is completed.
•The combined company’s debt may limit its financial flexibility.
•Declaration, payment and amounts of dividends, if any, distributed to stockholders of the combined company
will be uncertain.
These risks are discussed more fully in the registration statement on Form S-4 we filed with the SEC on December 14, 2018 that includes our and L3’s joint proxy statement that also constitutes our prospectus.
Although the registration statement has not yet been declared effective, we urge you to read it and any amendments and supplements thereto, because they contain important information about the pending merger, including relevant risk factors.
