Item 2.
“Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.”

Dividends

On August 25, 2017, our Board of Directors increased the quarterly cash dividend rate on our common stock from $.53 per share to $.57 per share, for an annualized cash dividend rate of $2.28 per share, which was our sixteenth consecutive annual increase in our quarterly cash dividend rate.
Our annualized cash dividend rate in fiscal 2017 was $2.12 per share.
There can be no assurances that our annualized cash dividend rate will continue to increase.
Quarterly cash dividends are typically paid in March, June, September and December.
We currently expect that cash dividends will continue to be paid in the near future, but we can give no assurances concerning payment of future dividends.
The declaration of dividends and the amount thereof will depend on a number of factors, including our financial condition, capital requirements, cash flows, results of operations, future business prospects and other factors our Board of Directors may deem relevant.
Capital Structure and Resources


We were in compliance with the covenants in the 2015 Credit Agreement at December 29, 2017, including the covenant requiring that we not permit our ratio of consolidated total indebtedness to total capital, each as defined in the 2015 Credit Agreement, to be greater than 0.65 to 1.00.
At December 29, 2017, we had no borrowings outstanding under the 2015 Credit Agreement.
During the second quarter of fiscal 2018, we completed the issuance and sale of $250 million in aggregate principal amount of Floating Rate Notes due April 30, 2020 and used the net proceeds, together with cash on hand, to repay in full the $253 million in remaining outstanding indebtedness under the 5-year tranche of our $1.3 billion senior unsecured term loan facility pursuant to our Term Loan Agreement, dated as of March 16, 2015.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements


•Any obligation under certain guarantee contracts;

•A retained or contingent interest in assets transferred to an unconsolidated entity or similar arrangement that serves as credit, liquidity or market risk support to that entity for such assets;

•Any obligation, including a contingent obligation, under certain derivative instruments; and


•Any obligation, including a contingent obligation, under a material variable interest in an unconsolidated entity that is held by, and material to, the registrant, where such entity provides financing, liquidity, market risk or credit risk support to the registrant, or engages in leasing, hedging or research and development services with the registrant.
As of December 29, 2017, we were not participating in any material transactions that generated relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, including variable interest entities, and we did not have any material retained or contingent interest in assets as defined above.
As of December 29, 2017, we did not have material financial guarantees or other contractual commitments that are reasonably likely to adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows, and we were not a party to any related party transactions that materially affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
Due to our downsizing of certain operations pursuant to acquisitions, divestitures, restructuring plans or otherwise, certain properties leased by us have been sublet to third parties.
In the event any of these third parties vacates any of these premises, we would be legally obligated under master lease arrangements.
We believe that the financial risk of default by such sublessees is individually and in the aggregate not material to our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
Commercial Commitments and Contractual Obligations


CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES


Revenue Recognition

A significant portion of our business is derived from development and production contracts.
Revenue and profit related to development and production contracts are recognized using the POC method, generally based on the ratio of costs incurred to estimated total costs at completion under the contract (i.e., the “cost-to-cost” method) or the ratio of actual units delivered to estimated total units to be delivered under the contract (i.e., the “units-of-delivery” method) with consideration given for risk of performance and estimated profit.
The majority of the revenue in our Space and Intelligence Systems and Electronic Systems segments (and to a certain extent, revenue in our Communication Systems segment) relates to development and production contracts, and the POC method of revenue recognition is primarily used for these contracts.
Change orders, claims or other items that may change the scope of a development or production contract are included in contract value only when the value can be reliably estimated and realization is probable.
Possible incentives or penalties and award fees applicable to performance on development and production contracts are considered in estimating contract value and profit rates and are recorded when there is sufficient information to assess anticipated contract performance.
Incentive provisions that increase earnings based solely on a single significant event are generally not recognized until the event occurs.
We are party to certain contracts with incentive provisions or award fees that are subject to uncertainty until the conclusion of the contract, and our customers may be entitled to reclaim and receive previous award fee payments.
Under the POC method of accounting, a single estimated total profit margin is used to recognize profit for each development and production contract over its period of performance.
Recognition of profit on fixed-price development and production contracts requires estimates of the total cost at completion and the measurement of progress toward completion.
The estimated profit or loss on a development or production contract is equal to the difference between the estimated contract value and the estimated total cost at completion.
Due to the long-term nature of many of our programs, developing the estimated total cost at completion often requires judgment.
Factors that must be considered in estimating the cost of the work to be completed include the nature and complexity of the work to be performed, subcontractor performance, the risk and impact of delayed performance, availability and timing of funding from the customer and the recoverability of any claims outside the original development or production contract included in the estimate to complete.
At the outset of each contract, we gauge its complexity and perceived risks and establish an estimated total cost at completion in line with these expectations.
After establishing the estimated total cost at completion, we follow a standard estimate at completion (“EAC”) process in which we review the progress and performance on our ongoing development and production contracts at least quarterly and, in many cases, more frequently.
If we successfully retire risks associated with the technical, schedule and cost aspects of a contract, we may lower our estimated total cost at completion commensurate with the retirement of these risks.
Conversely, if we are not successful in retiring these risks, we may increase our estimated total cost at completion.
Additionally, at the outset of a cost-reimbursable contract (for example, contracts containing award or incentive fees), we establish an estimate of total contract value, or revenue, based on our expectation of performance on the contract.
As the cost-reimbursable contract progresses, our estimates of total contract value may increase or decrease if, for example, we receive higher or lower than expected award fees.
When adjustments in estimated total costs at completion or in estimated total contract value are determined, the related impact to operating income is recognized using the cumulative catch-up method, which recognizes in the current period the cumulative effect of such adjustments for all prior periods.
Anticipated losses on development and production contracts or programs in progress are charged to operating income when identified.
We have not made any material changes in the methodologies used to recognize revenue on development and production contracts or to estimate our costs related to development and production contracts in the past three fiscal years.
We also recognize revenue from arrangements requiring the delivery or performance of multiple deliverables or elements under a bundled sale.
In these arrangements, judgment is required to determine the appropriate accounting, including whether the individual deliverables represent separate units of accounting for revenue recognition purposes, and the timing of revenue recognition for each deliverable.
If we determine that individual deliverables represent separate units of accounting, we recognize the revenue associated with each unit of accounting separately, and contract revenue is allocated among the separate units of accounting at the inception of the arrangement based on relative selling price.
If options or change orders materially change the scope of work or price of the contract subsequent to inception, we reevaluate and adjust our prior conclusions regarding units of accounting and allocation of contract revenue as necessary.
The allocation of selling price among the separate units of accounting may impact the timing of revenue recognition, but will not change the total revenue recognized on the arrangement.
We establish the selling price used for each deliverable based on the vendor-specific objective evidence (“VSOE”) of selling price, or third-party evidence (“TPE”) of selling price if VSOE of selling price is not available, or best estimate of selling price (“BESP”) if neither VSOE nor TPE of selling price is available.
In determining VSOE of selling price, a substantial majority of the recent standalone sales of the deliverable must be priced within a relatively narrow range.
In determining TPE of selling price, we evaluate competitor prices for similar deliverables when sold separately.
Generally, comparable pricing of our products to those of our competitors with similar functionality cannot be obtained.
In determining BESP, we consider both market data and entity-specific factors, including market conditions, the geographies in which our products are sold, our competitive position and strategy, and our profit objectives.
Impact of Recently Issued Accounting Standards

Accounting standards that have been recently issued, but are not yet effective for us, are described in Note A — Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Standards in the Notes, which describes the potential impact that these standards are expected to have on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS

This Report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, as well as assumptions that may not materialize or prove to be correct, which could cause our results to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by such forward-looking statements.
All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, statements concerning: our plans, strategies and objectives for future operations; new products, systems, technologies, services or developments; future economic conditions, performance or outlook; future political conditions; the outcome of contingencies; the potential level of share repurchases, dividends or pension contributions; potential acquisitions or divestitures; the value of contract awards and programs; expected cash flows or capital expenditures; our beliefs or expectations; activities, events or developments that we intend, expect, project, believe or anticipate will or may occur in the future; and assumptions underlying any of the foregoing.
Forward-looking statements may be identified by their use of forward-looking terminology, such as “believes,” “expects,” “may,” “should,” “would,” “will,” “intends,” “plans,” “estimates,” “anticipates,” “projects” and similar words or expressions.
You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which reflect our management’s opinions only as of the date of filing of this Report and are not guarantees of future performance or actual results.
Forward-looking statements are made in reliance on the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).
The following are some of the factors we believe could cause our actual results to differ materially from our historical results or our current expectations or projections:

•We depend on U.S. Government customers for a significant portion of our revenue, and the loss of these relationships, a reduction in U.S. Government funding or a change in U.S. Government spending priorities could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
•We depend significantly on U.S. Government contracts, which often are only partially funded, subject to immediate termination, and heavily regulated and audited.
The termination or failure to fund, or negative audit findings for, one or more of these contracts could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
•We could be negatively impacted by a security breach, through cyber attack, cyber intrusion, insider threats or otherwise, or other significant disruption of our IT networks and related systems or of those we operate for certain of our customers.
•The U.S. Government’s budget deficit, the national debt and sequestration, as well as the U.S. Government’s inability to complete its budget process and consequently having to operate pursuant to a “continuing resolution” or shut down, could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
•The level of returns on defined benefit plan assets, changes in interest rates and other factors could affect our earnings and cash flows in future periods.
•We enter into fixed-price contracts that could subject us to losses in the event of cost overruns or a significant increase in inflation.
•We use estimates in accounting for many of our programs and changes in our estimates could adversely affect our future financial results.
•We derive a significant portion of our revenue from international operations and are subject to the risks of doing business internationally, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates.
•Our reputation and ability to do business may be impacted by the improper conduct of our employees, agents or business partners.
•We may not be successful in obtaining the necessary export licenses to conduct certain operations abroad, and Congress may prevent proposed sales to certain foreign governments.
•Our future success will depend on our ability to develop new products, systems, services and technologies that achieve market acceptance in our current and future markets.
•We participate in markets that are often subject to uncertain economic conditions, which makes it difficult to estimate growth in our markets and, as a result, future income and expenditures.
•We cannot predict the consequences of future geo-political events, but they may adversely affect the markets in which we operate, our ability to insure against risks, our operations or our profitability.
•We have made, and may continue to make, strategic acquisitions and divestitures that involve significant risks and uncertainties.
•Disputes with our subcontractors and the inability of our subcontractors to perform, or our key suppliers to timely deliver our components, parts or services, could cause our products, systems or services to be produced or delivered in an untimely or unsatisfactory manner.
•Third parties have claimed in the past and may claim in the future that we are infringing directly or indirectly upon their intellectual property rights, and third parties may infringe upon our intellectual property rights.
•The outcome of litigation or arbitration in which we are involved from time to time is unpredictable and an adverse decision in any such matter could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
•We face certain significant risk exposures and potential liabilities that may not be covered adequately by insurance or indemnity.
•Changes in our effective tax rate may have an adverse effect on our results of operations.
•Our level of indebtedness and our ability to make payments on or service our indebtedness and our unfunded defined benefit plans liability may adversely affect our financial and operating activities or our ability to incur additional debt.
•A downgrade in our credit ratings could materially adversely affect our business.
•Unforeseen environmental issues could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
•We have significant operations in locations that could be materially and adversely impacted in the event of a natural disaster or other significant disruption.
•Some of our workforce is represented by labor unions, so our business could be harmed in the event of a prolonged work stoppage.
•We must attract and retain key employees, and failure to do so could seriously harm us.
•We may be responsible for U.S. Federal income tax liabilities that relate to the spin-off of Vectrus, Inc. (“Vectrus”) completed by Exelis.
•In connection with the Vectrus spin-off, Vectrus indemnified Exelis for certain liabilities and Exelis indemnified Vectrus for certain liabilities.
This indemnity may not be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of the liabilities assumed by Vectrus and Vectrus may be unable to satisfy its indemnification obligations to us in the future.
•The Vectrus spin-off may expose us to potential liabilities arising out of state and Federal fraudulent conveyance laws and legal distribution requirements.
•The ITT Corporation (“ITT”) spin-off of Exelis may expose us to potential liabilities arising out of state and Federal fraudulent conveyance laws and legal distribution requirements.
•If we are required to indemnify ITT or Xylem, Inc. in connection with the ITT spin-off of Exelis, we may need to divert cash to meet those obligations and our financial results could be negatively impacted.
Additional details and discussions concerning some of the factors that could affect our forward-looking statements or future results are set forth in our Fiscal 2017 Form 10-K under Item 1A.
“Risk Factors” and in Part II.
Item 1A.
“Risk Factors” in this Report.
The foregoing list of factors and the factors set forth in Item 1A.
“Risk Factors” included in our Fiscal 2017 Form 10-K and in Part II.
Item 1A.
“Risk Factors” in this Report are not exhaustive.
Additional risks and uncertainties not known to us or that we currently believe not to be material also may adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
Should any risks or uncertainties develop into actual events, these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
The forward-looking statements contained in this Report are made as of the date of filing of this Report, and we disclaim any intention or obligation, other than imposed by law, to update or revise any forward-looking statements or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or developments or otherwise.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities






Sales of Unregistered Equity Securities

During the second quarter of fiscal 2018, we did not issue or sell any unregistered equity securities.
