Item 1A.
“Risk Factors” in this Report.
The foregoing list of factors and the factors set forth in Item 1A.
“Risk Factors” included in our Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K and in Part II.
Item 1A.
“Risk Factors” in this Report are not exhaustive.
Additional risks and uncertainties not known to us or that we currently believe not to be material also may adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
Should any risks or uncertainties develop into actual events, these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
The forward-looking statements contained in this Report are made as of the date of filing of this Report, and we disclaim any intention or obligation, other than imposed by law, to update or revise any forward-looking statements or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or developments or otherwise.
Item 3.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.
In the normal course of business, we are exposed to risks associated with foreign currency exchange rates and changes in interest rates.
We employ established policies and procedures governing the use of financial instruments to manage our exposure to such risks.
There were no material changes during the quarter ended September 27, 2019 with respect to the information appearing in Part II, Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,” of our Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K.




At September 27, 2019, we also had long-term variable-rate debt obligations of $250 million, comprised of $250 million of Floating Rate Notes due April 30, 2020.
These debt obligations bear interest that is variable based on certain short-term indices, thus exposing us to interest-rate risk; however, a 10 percent change in interest rates for these debt obligations at September 27, 2019 would not have had a material impact on our results of operations or cash flows.
See Note M — Debt in the Notes for further information.
We utilize derivative instruments, from time to time, to mitigate interest rate risk associated with anticipated debt transactions.
If the derivative instrument is designated as a cash flow hedge, gains and losses from changes in the fair value of such instrument are deferred and included as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income and reclassified to interest expense in the period in which the hedged transaction affects earnings.
At September 27, 2019, we had three outstanding treasury lock agreements, with a notional amount of $1.05 billion, to hedge our exposure to fluctuations in the benchmark interest rate (10-year U.S. Treasury rate) associated with our anticipated issuance of long-term fixed-rate notes to redeem or repay at maturity the entire $400 million outstanding principal amount of our 2.7% Notes due April 27, 2020 and the entire $650 million outstanding principal amount of the 4.95% Notes due February 15, 2021.
We designated these treasury locks as cash flow hedges against fluctuations in interest payments on the Notes due to changes in the benchmark interest rate prior to issuance, which we expect to occur before the date of maturity of the 2020 Notes and 2021 Notes.
An unrealized after-tax loss of $54 million associated with these treasury locks was deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income at September 27, 2019.
A 10 percent change in the 10-year U.S. Treasury rate at September 27, 2019 would not have had a material impact on the fair value of these treasury lock agreements or our results of operations or cash flows.
See Note U — Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities in the Notes for additional information.
Item 4.
Controls and Procedures.
procedures into the acquired business as part of our integration activities.
We are continuing the multi-year, phased

implementation targeted for completion in 2020 of a new core enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) system in certain

business units, which we expect to reduce the number of ERP systems across the Company and enhance our system of internal

control over financial reporting.
We expect the initial implementation of the new core ERP system in each affected business unit

to involve changes to related processes that are part of our system of internal control over financial reporting and to require

testing for effectiveness and potential further changes as implementation progresses.
During fiscal 2018 and 2019, we successfully completed the initial implementation of the new core ERP system in four business units.
As part of our integration with L3, we are in the process of incorporating our controls and procedures with respect to L3’s operations, and we will include internal controls with respect to L3’s operations in our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of 2020.
Other than the system and related process changes described above as well as changes related to incorporating our controls and procedures with respect to L3’s operations, there have been no changes in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the quarter ended September 27, 2019 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
Legal Proceedings.
General.
From time to time, as a normal incident of the nature and kind of businesses in which we are or were engaged,

various claims or charges are asserted and litigation or arbitration is commenced by or against us arising from or related to


property; labor and employee disputes; commercial or contractual disputes; strategic acquisitions or divestitures; the prior sale

or use of former products allegedly containing asbestos or other restricted materials; breach of warranty; or environmental

matters.
Claimed amounts against us may be substantial, but may not bear any reasonable relationship to the merits of the claim

or the extent of any real risk of court or arbitral awards.
We record accruals for losses related to those matters against us that we

consider to be probable and that can be reasonably estimated.
Gain contingencies, if any, are recognized when they are realized

and legal costs generally are expensed when incurred.
At September 27, 2019, our accrual for the potential resolution of lawsuits, claims or proceedings that we consider probable of being decided unfavorably to us was not material.
Although it is not feasible to predict the outcome of these matters with certainty, it is reasonably possible that some lawsuits, claims or proceedings may be disposed of or decided unfavorably to us and in excess of the amounts currently accrued.
Based on available information, in the opinion of management, settlements, arbitration awards and final judgments, if any, that are considered probable of being rendered against us in litigation or arbitration in existence at September 27, 2019 are reserved against or would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
Tax Audits.
Our tax filings are subject to audit by taxing authorities in jurisdictions where we conduct or conducted business.
These audits may result in assessments of additional taxes that are subsequently resolved with the authorities or ultimately through legal proceedings.
We believe we have adequately accrued for any ultimate amounts that are likely to result from these audits; however, final assessments, if any, could be different from the amounts recorded in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).
Item 1A.
Risk Factors.
Investors should carefully review and consider the information regarding certain factors that could materially affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows as set forth in Part I, Item 1A.
“Risk Factors” of our Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K. We do not believe that there have been any material changes to the risk factors previously disclosed in our Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K. We may disclose changes to such risk factors or disclose additional risk factors from time to time in our future filings with the SEC.
Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe not to be material also may adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
