Item 1A.
“Risk Factors” in this Report.
The foregoing list of factors and the factors set forth in Item 1A.
“Risk Factors” included in our Fiscal 2017 Form 10-K and in Part II.
Item 1A.
“Risk Factors” in this Report are not exhaustive.
Additional risks and uncertainties not known to us or that we currently believe not to be material also may adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
Should any risks or uncertainties develop into actual events, these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
The forward-looking statements contained in this Report are made as of the date of filing of this Report, and we disclaim any intention or obligation, other than imposed by law, to update or revise any forward-looking statements or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or developments or otherwise.
Item 3.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.
In the normal course of business, we are exposed to risks associated with foreign currency exchange rates and changes in interest rates.
We employ established policies and procedures governing the use of financial instruments to manage our exposure to such risks.
obligations at March 30, 2018 would not have had a material impact on the fair value of these obligations.
Additionally, there is no interest-rate risk associated with these obligations on our results of operations or cash flows, because the interest rates are fixed and because our long-term fixed-rate debt is not putable to us (i.e., not required to be redeemed by us prior to maturity).
We can give no assurances, however, that interest rates will not change significantly or have a material effect on the fair value of our long-term debt obligations over the next twelve months.
Item 4.
Controls and Procedures.
Legal Proceedings.
Tax Audits.
Our tax filings are subject to audit by taxing authorities in jurisdictions where we conduct or conducted business.
These audits may result in assessments of additional taxes that are subsequently resolved with the authorities or ultimately through legal proceedings.
We believe we have adequately accrued for any ultimate amounts that are likely to result from these audits; however, final assessments, if any, could be different from the amounts recorded in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).
Item 1A.
Risk Factors.
Investors should carefully review and consider the information regarding certain factors that could materially affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows as set forth under Item 1A.
“Risk Factors” in our Fiscal 2017 Form 10-K. Other than the updated risk factor set forth below, we do not believe that there have been any material changes to the risk factors previously disclosed in our Fiscal 2017 Form 10-K. We may disclose changes to such risk factors or disclose additional risk factors from time to time in our future filings with the SEC.
Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe not to be material also may adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
We could be negatively impacted by a security breach, through cyber attack, cyber intrusion or otherwise, or other significant disruption of our IT networks and related systems or of those we operate for certain of our customers.
We face the risk, as does any company, of a security breach, whether through cyber attack or cyber intrusion over the Internet, malware, computer viruses, attachments to e-mails, persons inside our organization or with access to systems inside our organization, or other significant disruption of our IT networks and related systems or those of our suppliers or subcontractors.
We face an added risk of a security breach or other significant disruption of the IT networks and related systems that we develop, install, operate and maintain for certain of our customers, which may involve managing and protecting information relating to national security and other sensitive government functions or personally identifiable or protected health information.
The risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber attack or cyber intrusion, including by computer hackers, foreign governments and cyber terrorists, is persistent and substantial as the volume, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world remain elevated and unlikely to diminish.
As an advanced technology-based solutions provider, and particularly as a government contractor, we face a heightened risk of a security breach or disruption from threats to gain unauthorized access to our and our customers’ proprietary or classified information on our IT networks and related systems and to the IT networks and related systems that we operate and maintain for certain of our customers.
These types of information and IT networks and related systems are critical to the operation of our business and essential to our ability to perform day-to-day operations, and, in some cases, are critical to the operations of certain of our customers.
We make significant efforts to maintain the security and integrity of these types of information and IT networks and related systems and have implemented various measures to manage the risk of a security breach or disruption.
Our efforts and measures have not been entirely effective in the case of every cyber security incident, but no incident has had a material negative impact on us to date.
Even the most well protected information, networks, systems and facilities remain potentially vulnerable because attempted security breaches, particularly cyber attacks and intrusions, or disruptions will occur in the future, and because the techniques used in such attempts are constantly evolving and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, and in some cases are designed not to be detected and, in fact, may not be detected.
In some cases, the resources of foreign governments may be behind such attacks due to the nature of our business 




•Result in the unauthorized access to, and destruction, loss, theft, misappropriation or release of, proprietary, confidential, sensitive or otherwise valuable information of ours, our customers or our employees, including trade secrets, which could be used to compete against us or for disruptive, destructive or otherwise harmful purposes and outcomes;

•Compromise national security and other sensitive government functions;

•Require significant management attention and resources to remedy the damages that result;

•Subject us to claims for contract breach, damages, credits, penalties or termination; and

•Damage our reputation with our customers (particularly agencies of the U.S. Government) and the public generally.
Any or all of the foregoing could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
