Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.



In the normal course of business, we are exposed to risks associated with foreign currency exchange rates and changes in interest rates. We employ established policies and procedures governing the use of financial instruments to manage our exposure to such risks.







At March 29, 2019, we also had long-term variable-rate debt obligations of $250 million, comprised of $250 million of Floating Rate Notes due April 30, 2020. These debt obligations bear interest that is variable based on certain short-term indices, thus exposing us to interest-rate risk; however, a 10 percent change in interest rates for these debt obligations at March 29, 2019 







We utilize derivative instruments, from time to time, to mitigate interest rate risk associated with anticipated debt transactions. If the derivative instrument is designated as a cash flow hedge, gains and losses from changes in the fair value of such instrument are deferred and included as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income and reclassified to interest expense in the period in which the hedged transaction affects earnings.



At March 29, 2019, we had an outstanding yield-based treasury lock agreement with a notional amount of $400 million to hedge our exposure to fluctuations in the 10-year U.S. Treasury rate associated with our anticipated issuance of long-term notes to redeem or repay at maturity the entire $400 million outstanding principal amount of our 2.7% Notes due April 27, 2020. An unrealized after-tax loss of $8 million associated with this treasury lock was deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income at March 29, 2019. A 10 percent change in the 10-year U.S. Treasury rate would not have had a material impact on the fair value of this treasury lock agreement or our results of operations or cash flows. See Note N — Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities in the Notes for additional information.



Item 3. Defaults Upon Senior Securities.



Not Applicable.



