Item 2.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
OVERVIEW
The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis (“MD&A”) is intended to assist in an understanding of our financial condition and results of operations.
This MD&A is provided as a supplement to, should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to, our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and accompanying Notes appearing elsewhere in this Report (the “Notes”).
In addition, reference should be made to our audited Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Item 7.
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in our Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K.
Except for the historical information contained herein, the discussions in this MD&A contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties.
Our future results could differ materially from those discussed herein.
Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed below in this MD&A under “Forward-Looking Statements and Factors that May Affect Future Results.”
•Results of Operations — an analysis of our consolidated results of operations and the results in each of our business segments, to the extent the segment results are helpful to an understanding of our business as a whole, for the periods presented in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).
•Liquidity, Capital Resources and Financial Strategies — an analysis of cash flows, funding of pension plans, common stock repurchases, dividends, capital structure and resources, off-balance sheet arrangements and commercial commitments and contractual obligations.
•Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates — information about accounting policies that require critical judgments and estimates and about accounting standards that have been issued, but are not yet effective for us, and their potential impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
•Forward-Looking Statements and Factors that May Affect Future Results — cautionary information about forward-looking statements and a description of certain risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our historical results or our current expectations or projections.
As described in more detail in Note A — Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Standards and in Note B — Business Combination in the Notes, we completed the L3Harris Merger on June 29, 2019, the day after Harris’ fiscal 2019 ended and the first day of the quarter ended September 27, 2019.
As described in more detail in Note C — Business Divestitures and Asset Sales in the Notes, we completed the sale of the Harris Night Vision business on September 13, 2019 pursuant to a definitive agreement we entered as part of the regulatory process in connection with the L3Harris Merger.
•Integrated Mission Systems, including ISR; advanced electro-optical and infrared solutions; and maritime power and navigation;
•Space and Airborne Systems, including space payloads, sensors and full-mission solutions; classified intelligence and cyber defense; avionics; and electronic warfare;
•Communication Systems, including tactical communications; broadband communications; night vision; and public safety; and
•Aviation Systems, including defense aviation products; security, detection and other commercial aviation products; air traffic management; and commercial and military pilot training.
See Note X — Business Segment Information in the Notes for further information regarding our business segments, including how we define segment operating income or loss.
As described in more detail in Note A — Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Standards in the Notes, commencing June 29, 2019, our fiscal year will end on the Friday nearest December 31, and the period commencing on June 29, 2019 will be the Fiscal Transition Period.
We will file a transition report on Form 10-KT containing audited financial statements for the Fiscal Transition Period.
As described in more detail in Note A — Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Standards in the Notes and in Note Q — Leases in the Notes, effective June 29, 2019 we adopted ASC 842, a new lease standard that supersedes existing lease guidance under GAAP.
This standard requires, among other things, the recognition of right-of-use assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet for most lease arrangements and disclosure of certain information about leasing arrangements.
Amounts contained in this Report may not always add to totals due to rounding.
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Highlights
Consolidated Results of Operations
As Reported
Revenue
The increase in revenue for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with the quarter ended September 28, 2018 was primarily due to the inclusion of $2.67 billion of revenue (net of intercompany sales eliminations) from L3 operations in operating results for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 and organic revenue growth in our Space and Airborne Systems and Communication Systems segments.
Gross Margin
The increase in gross margin for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with the quarter ended September 28, 2018 was primarily due to the inclusion of L3 operations in operating results for the quarter ended September 27, 2019.
The decrease in gross margin as a percentage of revenue (“gross margin percentage”) for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with the quarter ended September 28, 2018 was primarily due to $92 million of additional cost of sales related to the fair value step-up in inventory sold and a mix of program revenue and product sales with relatively lower gross margin percentage in the quarter ended September 27, 2019.
Engineering, Selling and Administrative Expenses
 The increases in Engineering, Selling and Administrative (“ESA”) expenses and ESA expense as a percentage of total revenue (“ESA percentage”) for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with the quarter ended September 28, 2018 were primarily due to the inclusion of L3 operations in operating results and $281 million of charges for integration, restructuring and other costs associated with the L3Harris Merger in the quarter ended September 27, 2019.
ESA expenses for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 also included a $12 million gain on sale of a product line, offset by a $12 million non-cash cumulative adjustment to lease expense.
Gain (loss) on Sales of Businesses
 The increase in gain (loss) on sales of businesses for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with the quarter ended September 28, 2018 was due to a $229 million pre-tax gain on the sale of the Harris Night Vision business, which was completed on September 13, 2019.
See Note C — Business Divestitures and Asset Sales in the Notes for further information.
Non-Operating Income
The increase in non-operating income in the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with the quarter ended September 28, 2018 was primarily due to an increase in the non-service cost components of pension and other postretirement benefit plan income, reflecting the inclusion in pension and other postretirement benefit plan income of benefit plans assumed in connection with the L3Harris Merger.
See Note R — Non-Operating Income and Note N — Postretirement Benefit Plans in the Notes for further information.
Net Interest Expense
Income Taxes
Our effective tax rate (income taxes as a percentage of income from continuing operations before income taxes) was 1.1 percent for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with 16.0 percent for the quarter ended September 28, 2018.
Our effective tax rate for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 benefited from the favorable impact of excess tax benefits related to equity-based compensation, the ability to utilize capital loss carryforwards with a full valuation allowance against capital gains generated from the Harris Night Vision business divestiture, and the release of reserves for uncertain tax positions due to statute of limitations expirations.
Our effective tax rate for the quarter ended September 28, 2018 benefited from the tax rate reduction under the Tax Act, the favorable impact of excess tax benefits related to equity-based compensation, and from several differences in GAAP and tax accounting related to investments.
Income From Continuing Operations
The increase in income from continuing operations for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with the quarter ended September 28, 2018 was primarily due to the combined effects of the reasons noted above in this “As Reported” discussion regarding the quarters ended September 27, 2019 and September 28, 2018.
Income From Continuing Operations Per Diluted Common Share Attributable to L3Harris Technologies, Inc. Common Shareholders
The increase in income from continuing operations per diluted common share attributable to L3Harris Technologies, Inc. common shareholders for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with the quarter ended September 28, 2018 was primarily due to higher income from continuing operations, as discussed above, partially offset by an increase in our diluted weighted average common shares outstanding as a result of approximately 104 million shares issued in connection with L3Harris Merger.
Pro Forma
Revenue
The increase in revenue for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with pro forma revenue for the quarter ended September 28, 2018 was primarily due to higher revenue in our Space and Airborne Systems segment, reflecting growth in the Avionics and Space businesses, and higher revenue in our Integrated Mission Systems and Communication Systems segments.
Gross Margin
The slight increase in gross margin and decrease in gross margin percentage for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with the pro forma gross margin and pro forma gross margin percentage for the quarter ended September 28, 2018 were primarily due to $92 million of additional cost of sales related to the fair value step-up in inventory sold in the quarter ended September 27, 2019, partially offset by higher volume and strong operational performance.
Engineering, Selling and Administrative Expenses
The increases in ESA expenses and ESA percentage for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with pro forma ESA expense and pro forma ESA percentage for the quarter ended September 28, 2018 were primarily due to $281 million of charges for integration, restructuring and other costs associated with the L3Harris Merger in the quarter ended September 27, 2019, partially offset by integration savings.
Gain (loss) on Sales of Businesses
 The increase in gain (loss) on sales of businesses for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with pro forma gain (loss) on sales of businesses for the quarter ended September 28, 2018 was due to a $229 million pre-tax gain on the sale of the Harris Night Vision business, which was completed on September 13, 2019.
See Note C — Business Divestitures and Asset Sales in the Notes for further information.
Non-Operating Income
The increase in non-operating income for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with pro forma non-operating income for the quarter ended September 28, 2018 was primarily due to a $21 million debt extinguishment loss recognized by L3 in the quarter ended September 28, 2018.
Net Interest Expense
Income Taxes
Income From Continuing Operations
The increase in income from continuing operations for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with pro forma income from continuing operations for the quarter ended September 28, 2018 was primarily due to the combined effects of the reasons noted above in this “Pro Forma” discussion regarding the quarters ended September 27, 2019 and September 28, 2018.
Income From Continuing Operations Per Diluted Common Share Attributable to L3Harris Common Shareholders
The increase in income from continuing operations per diluted common share attributable to L3Harris common shareholders for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with pro forma income from continuing operations per diluted common share for the quarter ended September 28, 2018 was primarily due to higher income from continuing operations, as discussed above.
Supplemental Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Income Statement Information
a.Reflects the elimination of intercompany balances and transactions between L3 and Harris.
b.Reflects the sale of the Harris Night Vision business.
d.Represents elimination of $2 million accrual of transaction costs at September 28, 2018, which were included in merger, acquisition and divestiture related expenses in L3’s historical statement of operations for the quarter ended September 28, 2018.
e.In connection with the L3Harris Merger, on October 12, 2018, each company entered into a letter agreement with its chief executive officer, to outline the terms of each such person’s role and compensation arrangements following the merger.
Amounts shown reflect the increase in compensation expense as a result of these modified arrangements.
f.Reflects the impact of change-in-control payments under certain post-retirement and share-based and deferred compensation arrangements.
g.Reflects the elimination of amortization of net actuarial losses from accumulated comprehensive loss related to L3's postretirement benefit plans as part of purchase accounting.
h.Reflects the elimination of amortization of deferred debt issuance costs as part of purchase accounting.
i.Reflects amortization of the increase to L3’s long-term debt based on a $172 million fair value adjustment.
1.Merger, acquisition and divestiture related expenses of $5 million for the quarter ended September 28, 2018 were reclassified to engineering, selling and administrative expenses.
2.Loss on sale of the Crestview Aerospace and TCS businesses of $4 million for the quarter ended September 28, 2018 was reclassified to loss on sale of businesses.
3.Interest and other income, net of $15 million, of which $5 million was reclassified to interest income and $10 million was reclassified to non-operating income for the quarter ended September 28, 2018.
4.Debt retirement charges of $21 million for the quarter ended September 28, 2018 was reclassified to non-operating income
k.Represents the income tax impact of the pro forma adjustments, using the blended worldwide tax rates for L3, in the case of pro forma adjustments to L3’s historical results, and the federal and state statutory tax rates for Harris, in the case of pro forma adjustments to Harris’ historical results.
As a result, the combined statutory tax rate used to tax-effect the pro forma adjustments was approximately 23 percent for the quarter ended September 28, 2018.
These tax rates do not represent the combined company’s effective tax rate, which will include other tax charges and benefits, and does not take into account any historical or possible future tax events that may impact the combined company following the consummation of the L3Harris Merger.
l.Increase in common stock due to shares of L3Harris common stock issued for L3 common stock, L3 restricted stock units and L3 performance stock units.
Diluted shares also include the dilutive impact of L3Harris stock options issued for L3 stock options calculated using the treasury stock method.
Discussion of Business Segment Results of Operations
Integrated Mission Systems
The changes in segment revenue, operating income and operating income as a percentage of revenue (“operating margin percentage”) in the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with the quarter ended September 28, 2018 were primarily due to the inclusion of L3 operations in segment operating results as a result of the L3Harris Merger during the quarter ended September 27, 2019.
Because the Integrated Mission Systems segment is almost entirely comprised of L3 businesses, comparison to prior year segment operating metrics is not meaningful.
In the quarter ended September 27, 2019, segment revenue benefited from growth in ISR missionization and increased demand from the U.S. Government for Wescam turret systems.
Space and Airborne Systems
The changes in segment revenue and operating income in the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with the quarter ended September 28, 2018 were primarily due to the inclusion of L3 operations in segment operating results as a result of the L3Harris Merger during the quarter ended September 27, 2019 and revenue growth in the Avionics and Space businesses.
Segment operating margin percentage in the quarter ended September 27, 2019 was comparable with the quarter ended September 28, 2018 reflecting integration savings, offset by a mix of program revenue and product sales with relatively lower operating margin percentage.
Communication Systems
The changes in segment revenue and operating income in the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with the quarter ended September 28, 2018 were primarily due to the inclusion of L3 operations in segment operating results as a result of the L3Harris Merger during the quarter ended September 27, 2019, $66 million of higher revenue in Tactical Communications, reflecting increased U.S. DoD modernization and European demand, and $16 million of higher revenue in the Public Safety business.
The decrease in segment operating margin percentage in the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with the quarter ended September 28, 2018 was primarily due to a mix of program revenue and product sales with relatively lower operating margin percentage, partially offset by strong operational performance.
Aviation Systems
The changes in segment revenue and operating income in the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with the quarter ended September 28, 2018 were primarily due to the inclusion of L3 operations in segment operating results as a result of the L3Harris Merger during the quarter ended September 27, 2019.
Because the Aviation Systems segment is primarily comprised of L3 businesses, comparison to certain prior year segment operating metrics is not meaningful.
In the quarter ended September 27, 2019, segment revenue also reflected increased demand for fuzing and ordnance products in Defense Aviation Products, offset by a decline in comparative revenue in Commercial Training Solutions and the competitive loss of the U.S. Air Force C-17 contract.
The slight decrease in segment operating margin percentage in the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with the quarter ended September 28, 2018 was primarily due to a mix of program revenue and product sales with relatively lower operating margin percentage, partially offset by improved operational performance.
LIQUIDITY, CAPITAL RESOURCES AND FINANCIAL STRATEGIES
Cash Flows
Cash and cash equivalents
•$1,132 million of net cash received from the L3Harris Merger;
•$346 million of net proceeds from the sale the Harris Night Vision business;
•$95 million of proceeds from exercises of employee stock options; and
•$81 million of net cash provided by operating activities; partially offset by
•$750 million used to repurchase shares of our common stock;
•$177 million used to pay cash dividends;
•$97 million of net repayments of borrowings; and
•$84 million used for net additions of property, plant and equipment.
•$216 million of net proceeds from borrowings (primarily under our commercial paper program); and
•$117 million of net cash provided by operating activities; partially offset by
•$200 million used to repurchase shares of our common stock;
•$82 million used to pay cash dividends; and
•$31 million used for net additions of property, plant and equipment.
At September 27, 2019, we had cash and cash equivalents of $1.0 billion, and we have a senior unsecured $2 billion revolving credit facility that expires in June 2024 (all of which was available to us as of September 27, 2019).
Additionally, we had $7.0 billion of long-term debt outstanding at September 27, 2019, the majority of which was assumed in connection with the L3Harris Merger in the quarter ended September 27, 2019 or was incurred in connection with our acquisition of Exelis Inc. in fiscal 2015.
Our $1.0 billion of cash and cash equivalents at September 27, 2019 included $233 million held by our foreign subsidiaries, of which $155 million was considered permanently reinvested.
Determining the future tax cost of repatriating such funds to the U.S. is not practical at this time.
However, we have no current plans to repatriate the funds.
Given our current cash position, outlook for funds generated from operations, credit ratings, available credit facility, cash needs and debt structure, we have not experienced to date, and do not expect to experience, any material issues with liquidity, although we can give no assurances concerning our future liquidity, particularly in light of our overall level of debt, U.S. Government budget uncertainties and the state of global commerce and financial uncertainty.
There can be no assurance, however, that our business will continue to generate cash flows at current levels or that the cost or availability of future borrowings, if any, under our commercial paper program or our credit facility or in the debt markets will not be impacted by any potential future credit or capital markets disruptions.
If we are unable to maintain cash balances or generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our obligations, we may be required to sell assets, reduce capital expenditures, reduce or eliminate strategic acquisitions, reduce or terminate our share repurchases, reduce or eliminate dividends, refinance all or a portion of our existing debt or obtain additional financing.
Our ability to make principal payments or pay interest on or refinance our indebtedness depends on our future performance and financial results, which, to a certain extent, are subject to general conditions in or affecting the defense, government and other markets we serve and to general economic, political, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors beyond our control.
Funding of Pension Plans
Funding requirements under applicable laws and regulations are a major consideration in making contributions to our U.S. pension plans.
Although we have significant discretion in making voluntary contributions, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended by the Pension Protection Act of 2006 and further amended by the Worker, Retiree, and Employer Recovery Act of 2008, the Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act (“MAP-21”), and applicable Internal Revenue Code regulations mandate minimum funding thresholds.
Failure to satisfy the minimum funding thresholds could result in restrictions on our ability to amend the plans or make benefit payments.
With respect to our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans, we intend to contribute annually not less than the required minimum funding thresholds.
The Highway and Transportation Funding Act of 2014 and the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015 further extended the interest rate stabilization provision of MAP-21 until 2020.
We made a voluntary contributions of $302 million to our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans during the quarter ended September 27, 2019.
As a result, we currently do not anticipate making any contributions to our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans and we anticipate making only minor contributions to our non-U.S. pension plans during the remainder of the Fiscal Transition Period.
Common Stock Repurchases
During the quarter ended September 27, 2019, we used $750 million to repurchase 3,582,500 shares of our common stock under our 2019 Repurchase Program (as defined below) at an average price per share of $209.40, including commissions of $.02 per share.
During the quarter ended September 28, 2018, we used $200 million to repurchase 1,219,750 shares of our common stock under our prior repurchase program at an average price per share of $163.99, including commissions of $.02 per share.
During the quarters ended September 27, 2019 and September 28, 2018, $83 million and $18 million, respectively, in shares of our common stock were delivered to us or withheld by us to satisfy withholding taxes on employee share-based awards.
Shares purchased by us are canceled and retired.
As of September 27, 2019, we had a remaining, unused authorization of approximately $3.2 billion under our 2019 Repurchase Program.
On July 1, 2019, we announced that our Board of Directors approved a new $4 billion share repurchase authorization (“2019 Repurchase Program”).
The 2019 Repurchase Program replaced our prior share repurchase program, which had a remaining unused authorization of approximately $501 million, as well as L3’s prior share repurchase program.
Although the 2019 Repurchase Program does not have a stated expiration date, we announced that we expect to repurchase up to $2.5 billion in shares during the twelve months ended July 1, 2020, but we can give no assurance regarding the level and timing of share repurchases.
At September 27, 2019, we had a remaining, unused authorization of approximately $3.2 billion under our 2019 Repurchase Program.
Repurchases under the 2019 Repurchase Program may be made through open-market transactions, private transactions, transactions structured through investment banking institutions or any combination thereof.
The level of our repurchases depends on a number of factors, including our financial condition, capital requirements, cash flows, results of operations, future business prospects and other factors our Board and management may deem relevant.
The timing, volume and nature of repurchases are subject to market conditions, applicable securities laws and other factors and are at our discretion and may be suspended or discontinued at any time.
Additional information regarding our 2019 Repurchase Program is set forth in this Report under Part II.
Item 2.
“Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.”
Dividends
On June 29, 2019, our Board of Directors increased the quarterly cash dividend rate on our common stock from $.685 per share to $.75 per share, for an annualized cash dividend rate of $3.00 per share, which was our eighteenth consecutive annual increase in our quarterly cash dividend rate.
The new dividend rate of $.75 per share is effective for dividends declared during the Fiscal Transition Period ending January 3, 2020 and we expect to assess our future dividend rate during the first quarter of calendar year 2020.
Our annualized cash dividend rate for fiscal 2019 was $2.74 per share.
Quarterly cash dividends are typically paid in March, June, September and December.
We currently expect that cash dividends will continue to be paid in the near future, but we can give no assurances concerning payment of future dividends.
The declaration of dividends and the amount thereof will depend on a number of factors, including our financial condition, capital requirements, cash flows, results of operations, future business prospects and other factors our Board of Directors may deem relevant.
Capital Structure and Resources
We were in compliance with the covenants in the 2019 Credit Agreement at September 27, 2019, including the covenant requiring that we not permit our ratio of consolidated total indebtedness to total capital, each as defined in the 2019 Credit Agreement, to be greater than 0.65 to 1.00.
At September 27, 2019, we had no borrowings outstanding under the 2019 Credit Agreement.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
•Any obligation under certain guarantee contracts;
•A retained or contingent interest in assets transferred to an unconsolidated entity or similar arrangement that serves as credit, liquidity or market risk support to that entity for such assets;
•Any obligation, including a contingent obligation, under certain derivative instruments; and
As of September 27, 2019, we were not participating in any material transactions that generated relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, including variable interest entities, and we did not have any material retained or contingent interest in assets as defined above.
As of September 27, 2019, we did not have material financial guarantees or other contractual commitments that we believe are reasonably likely to adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, and we were not a party to any related party transactions that materially affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
Due to our downsizing of certain operations pursuant to acquisitions, divestitures, restructuring plans or otherwise, certain properties leased by us have been sublet to third parties.
In the event any of these third parties vacates any of these premises, we would be legally obligated under master lease arrangements.
We believe that the financial risk of default by such sublessees is individually and in the aggregate not material to our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
Commercial Commitments and Contractual Obligations
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES
Revenue Recognition
At the outset of each contract, we gauge its complexity and perceived risks and establish an estimated total cost at completion in line with these expectations.
After establishing the estimated total cost at completion, we follow a standard Estimate at Completion (“EAC”) process in which we review the progress and performance on our ongoing contracts at least quarterly and, in many cases, more frequently.
If we successfully retire risks associated with the technical, schedule and cost aspects of a contract, we may lower our estimated total cost at completion commensurate with the retirement of these risks.
Conversely, if we are not successful in retiring these risks, we may increase our estimated total cost at completion.
Additionally, as the contract progresses, our estimates of total transaction price may increase or decrease if, for example, we receive award fees that are higher or lower than expected.
When adjustments in estimated total costs at completion or in estimated total transaction price are determined, the related impact on operating income is recognized using the cumulative catch-up method, which recognizes in the current period the cumulative effect of such adjustments for all prior periods.
Any anticipated losses on these contracts are fully recognized in the period in which the losses become evident.
There were no individual impacts to operating income due to EAC adjustments in the quarters ended September 27, 2019 or September 28, 2018 that were material to our results of operations on a consolidated or segment basis for such periods.
We recognize revenue from numerous contracts with multiple performance obligations.
For these contracts, we allocate the transaction price to each performance obligation based on the relative standalone selling price of the good or service underlying each performance obligation.
The standalone selling price represents the amount for which we would sell the good or service to a customer on a standalone basis (i.e., not sold as bundled sale with any other products or services).
The allocation of transaction price among separate performance obligations may impact the timing of revenue recognition but will not change the total revenue recognized on the contract.
A substantial majority of our revenue is derived from contracts with the U.S. Government, including foreign military sales contracts.
These contracts are subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulations and the prices of our contract deliverables are typically based on our estimated or actual costs plus a reasonable profit margin.
As a result, the standalone selling prices of the goods and services in these contracts are typically equal to the selling prices stated in the contract, thereby eliminating the need to allocate (or reallocate) the transaction price to the multiple performance obligations.
In our non-U.S. Government contracts, when standalone selling prices are not directly observable, we also generally use the expected cost plus a margin approach to determine standalone selling price.
In determining the appropriate margin under the cost plus margin approach, we consider historical margins on similar products sold to similar customers or within similar geographies where objective evidence is available.
We may also consider our cost structure and profit objectives, the nature of the proposal, the effects of customization of pricing, our practices used to establish pricing of bundled products, the expected technological life of the product, margins earned on similar contracts with different customers and other factors to determine the appropriate margin.
Postretirement Benefit Plans
As part of our accounting for the L3Harris Merger, we completed a valuation and re-measurement of all L3 pension and other postretirement benefit (“OPEB”) plans as of the Closing Date and we recorded a $233 million increase to L3’s pension and OPEB liability as of June 29, 2019 based on the results of this valuation.
The total L3 pension and OPEB liability assumed by L3Harris was $1.4 billion at the Closing Date.
The discount rate assumption used was a yield curve rather than a single interest rate.
For the pension plans, the average June 29, 2019 discount rate used was 3.54 percent for U.S. plans and 2.95 percent for Canadian plans.
For OPEB plans, the average June 29, 2019 discount rate used was 3.31 percent for U.S. plans and 2.92 percent for Canadian plans.
The long‐term expected rate of return on plan assets for the Fiscal Transition Period is 7.75 percent for the majority of our postretirement benefit plans.
Accounting for Business Combinations
We follow the acquisition method of accounting to record identifiable assets acquired, liabilities assumed and noncontrolling interests in the acquiree recognized in connection with acquired businesses at their estimated fair value as of the date of acquisition.
We assess the recoverability of finite-lived intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable.
We evaluate the recoverability of such assets based on the expectations of undiscounted cash flows of the assets.
If the sum of expected future undiscounted cash flows were less than the carrying amount of the asset, a loss would be recognized for the difference between the fair value and the carrying amount.
See Note B — Business Combination and Note K — Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets for additional information.
Impact of Recently Issued Accounting Standards
Accounting standards that have been recently issued, but are not yet effective for us, are described in Note A — Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Standards in the Notes, which describes the potential impact that these standards are expected to have on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS
This Report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, as well as assumptions that may not materialize or prove to be correct, which could cause our results to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by such forward-looking statements.
All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, statements concerning: our plans, strategies and objectives for future operations; new products, systems, technologies, services or developments; future economic conditions, performance or outlook; future political conditions; the outcome of contingencies; the potential level of share repurchases, dividends or pension contributions; potential acquisitions or divestitures; the value of contract awards and programs; expected cash flows or capital expenditures; our beliefs or expectations; activities, events or developments that we intend, expect, project, believe or anticipate will or may occur in the future; and assumptions underlying any of the foregoing.
Forward-looking statements may be identified by their use of forward-looking terminology, such as “believes,” “expects,” “may,” “should,” “would,” “will,” “intends,” “plans,” “estimates,” “anticipates,” “projects” and similar words or expressions.
You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which reflect our management’s opinions only as of the date of filing of this Report and are not guarantees of future performance or actual results.
Forward-looking statements are made in reliance on the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).
The following are some of the factors we believe could cause our actual results to differ materially from our historical results or our current expectations or projections:
•We depend on U.S. Government customers for a significant portion of our revenue, and the loss of these relationships, a reduction in U.S. Government funding or a change in U.S. Government spending priorities could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
•We depend significantly on U.S. Government contracts, which often are only partially funded, subject to immediate termination, and heavily regulated and audited.
The termination or failure to fund, or negative audit findings for, one or more of these contracts could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
•The U.S. Government’s budget deficit and the national debt, as well as any inability of the U.S. Government to complete its budget process for any government fiscal year and consequently having to shut down or operate on funding levels equivalent to its prior fiscal year pursuant to a “continuing resolution” could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
•We could be negatively impacted by a security breach, through cyber attack, cyber intrusion, insider threats or otherwise, or other significant disruption of our IT networks and related systems or of those we operate for certain of our customers.
•Our ability to successfully manage ongoing business and organizational changes could impact our business results.
•Our results of operations and cash flows are substantially affected by our mix of fixed-price, cost-plus and time-and-material type contracts.
In particular, our fixed-price contracts could subject us to losses in the event of cost overruns or a significant increase in inflation.
•We use estimates in accounting for many of our programs, and changes in our estimates could adversely affect our future financial results.
•We derive a significant portion of our revenue from international operations and are subject to the risks of doing business internationally, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates.
•The level of returns on defined benefit plan assets, changes in interest rates and other factors could affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in future periods.
•We may not be successful in obtaining the necessary export licenses to conduct certain operations abroad, and Congress and the Executive Branch may prevent proposed sales to certain foreign governments.
•Disputes with our subcontractors or the inability of our subcontractors to perform, or our key suppliers to timely deliver our components, parts or services, could cause our products, systems or services to be produced or delivered in an untimely or unsatisfactory manner.
•Our reputation and ability to do business may be impacted by the improper conduct of our employees, agents or business partners.
•Our future success will depend on our ability to develop new products, systems, services and technologies that achieve market acceptance in our current and future markets.
•We participate in markets that are often subject to uncertain economic conditions, which makes it difficult to estimate growth in our markets and, as a result, future income and expenditures.
•We cannot predict the consequences of future geo-political events, but they may adversely affect the markets in which we operate, our ability to insure against risks, our operations or our profitability.
•Strategic transactions, including mergers, acquisitions and divestitures, involve significant risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
•The outcome of litigation or arbitration in which we are involved from time to time is unpredictable, and an adverse decision in any such matter could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
•We are subject to government investigations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and future prospects.
•Third parties have claimed in the past and may claim in the future that we are infringing directly or indirectly upon their intellectual property rights, and third parties may infringe upon our intellectual property rights.
•Our commercial aviation products, systems and services business (a portion of L3’s business prior to the L3Harris Merger) is affected by global demand and economic factors that could negatively impact our financial results.
•We face certain significant risk exposures and potential liabilities that may not be covered adequately by insurance or indemnity.
•Changes in our effective tax rate may have an adverse effect on our results of operations.
•Our level of indebtedness and our ability to make payments on or service our indebtedness and our unfunded defined benefit plans liability may adversely affect our financial and operating activities or our ability to incur additional debt.
•A downgrade in our credit ratings could materially adversely affect our business.
•Unforeseen environmental issues could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
•We have significant operations in locations that could be materially and adversely impacted in the event of a natural disaster or other significant disruption.
•We must attract and retain key employees, and any failure to do so could seriously harm us.
•Some of our workforce is represented by labor unions, so our business could be harmed in the event of a prolonged work stoppage.
•We may fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits of the L3Harris Merger or those benefits may take longer to realize than expected.
We may also encounter significant difficulties in integrating the businesses.
•Certain business uncertainties arising from the L3Harris Merger could adversely affect our businesses and operations.
•We have incurred and will incur direct and indirect costs as a result of the L3Harris Merger.
Additional details and discussions concerning some of the factors that could affect our forward-looking statements or future results are set forth in our Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K under Item 1A.
“Risk Factors” and in Part II.
Item 1A.
“Risk Factors” in this Report.
The foregoing list of factors and the factors set forth in Item 1A.
“Risk Factors” included in our Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K and in Part II.
Item 1A.
“Risk Factors” in this Report are not exhaustive.
Additional risks and uncertainties not known to us or that we currently believe not to be material also may adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
Should any risks or uncertainties develop into actual events, these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
The forward-looking statements contained in this Report are made as of the date of filing of this Report, and we disclaim any intention or obligation, other than imposed by law, to update or revise any forward-looking statements or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or developments or otherwise.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
New Share Repurchase Program
On July 1, 2019, we announced that our Board of Directors approved a new $4 billion share repurchase authorization (“2019 Repurchase Program”), replacing our prior share repurchase program.
Repurchases under the new program may be made through open-market transactions, private transactions, transactions structured through investment banking institutions or any combination thereof.
The level of our repurchases depends on a number of factors, including our financial condition, capital requirements, cash flows, results of operations, future business prospects and other factors our Board and management may deem relevant.
The timing, volume and nature of repurchases are subject to market conditions, applicable securities laws and other factors and are at our discretion and may be suspended or discontinued at any time.
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
During the quarter ended September 27, 2019, we repurchased 3.6 million shares of our common stock under our 2019 Repurchase Program.
The level of our repurchases depends on a number of factors, including our financial condition, capital requirements, cash flows, results of operations, future business prospects and other factors our Board of Directors may deem relevant.
The timing, volume and nature of repurchases are subject to market conditions, applicable securities laws and other factors and are at our discretion and may be suspended or discontinued at any time.
Shares repurchased by us are canceled and retired.
The following table sets forth information with respect to repurchases by us of our common stock during the quarter ended September 27, 2019.
Sales of Unregistered Equity Securities
During the quarter ended September 27, 2019, we did not issue or sell any unregistered equity securities.
