Item 4.
Controls and Procedures.
procedures into the acquired business as part of our integration activities.
We are continuing the multi-year, phased

implementation targeted for completion in 2020 of a new core enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) system in certain

business units, which we expect to reduce the number of ERP systems across the Company and enhance our system of internal

control over financial reporting.
We expect the initial implementation of the new core ERP system in each affected business unit

to involve changes to related processes that are part of our system of internal control over financial reporting and to require

testing for effectiveness and potential further changes as implementation progresses.
During fiscal 2018 and 2019, we successfully completed the initial implementation of the new core ERP system in four business units.
As part of our integration with L3, we are in the process of incorporating our controls and procedures with respect to L3’s operations, and we will include internal controls with respect to L3’s operations in our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of 2020.
Other than the system and related process changes described above as well as changes related to incorporating our controls and procedures with respect to L3’s operations, there have been no changes in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the quarter ended September 27, 2019 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
Legal Proceedings.
General.
From time to time, as a normal incident of the nature and kind of businesses in which we are or were engaged,

various claims or charges are asserted and litigation or arbitration is commenced by or against us arising from or related to


property; labor and employee disputes; commercial or contractual disputes; strategic acquisitions or divestitures; the prior sale

or use of former products allegedly containing asbestos or other restricted materials; breach of warranty; or environmental

matters.
Claimed amounts against us may be substantial, but may not bear any reasonable relationship to the merits of the claim

or the extent of any real risk of court or arbitral awards.
We record accruals for losses related to those matters against us that we

consider to be probable and that can be reasonably estimated.
Gain contingencies, if any, are recognized when they are realized

and legal costs generally are expensed when incurred.
At September 27, 2019, our accrual for the potential resolution of lawsuits, claims or proceedings that we consider probable of being decided unfavorably to us was not material.
Although it is not feasible to predict the outcome of these matters with certainty, it is reasonably possible that some lawsuits, claims or proceedings may be disposed of or decided unfavorably to us and in excess of the amounts currently accrued.
Based on available information, in the opinion of management, settlements, arbitration awards and final judgments, if any, that are considered probable of being rendered against us in litigation or arbitration in existence at September 27, 2019 are reserved against or would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
Tax Audits.
Our tax filings are subject to audit by taxing authorities in jurisdictions where we conduct or conducted business.
These audits may result in assessments of additional taxes that are subsequently resolved with the authorities or ultimately through legal proceedings.
We believe we have adequately accrued for any ultimate amounts that are likely to result from these audits; however, final assessments, if any, could be different from the amounts recorded in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).
Item 1A.
Risk Factors.
Investors should carefully review and consider the information regarding certain factors that could materially affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows as set forth in Part I, Item 1A.
“Risk Factors” of our Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K. We do not believe that there have been any material changes to the risk factors previously disclosed in our Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K. We may disclose changes to such risk factors or disclose additional risk factors from time to time in our future filings with the SEC.
Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe not to be material also may adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
New Share Repurchase Program

On July 1, 2019, we announced that our Board of Directors approved a new $4 billion share repurchase authorization (“2019 Repurchase Program”), replacing our prior share repurchase program.
Repurchases under the new program may be made through open-market transactions, private transactions, transactions structured through investment banking institutions or any combination thereof.
The level of our repurchases depends on a number of factors, including our financial condition, capital requirements, cash flows, results of operations, future business prospects and other factors our Board and management may deem relevant.
The timing, volume and nature of repurchases are subject to market conditions, applicable securities laws and other factors and are at our discretion and may be suspended or discontinued at any time.
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

During the quarter ended September 27, 2019, we repurchased 3.6 million shares of our common stock under our 2019 Repurchase Program.
The level of our repurchases depends on a number of factors, including our financial condition, capital requirements, cash flows, results of operations, future business prospects and other factors our Board of Directors may deem relevant.
The timing, volume and nature of repurchases are subject to market conditions, applicable securities laws and other factors and are at our discretion and may be suspended or discontinued at any time.
Shares repurchased by us are canceled and retired.
The following table sets forth information with respect to repurchases by us of our common stock during the quarter ended September 27, 2019.
Sales of Unregistered Equity Securities

During the quarter ended September 27, 2019, we did not issue or sell any unregistered equity securities.
Item 3.
Defaults Upon Senior Securities.
Not Applicable.
Item 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures.
Not Applicable.
Item 5.
Other Information.
Not Applicable.
Item 6.
Exhibits.
EXHIBIT INDEX






SIGNATURE

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
