Noncontrolling interest amounts of $7.1 million and $6.2 million, net of tax, for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $19.0 million and $17.9 million, net of tax, for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, are included as a reduction within other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.
The company will adopt the guidance on a prospective basis as of the effective date.
The company will adopt the guidance as of the effective date.
The guidance requires lessees to recognize right-of-use (ROU) assets and lease liabilities for most leases in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
The guidance also made some changes to lessor accounting, including elimination of the use of third-party residual value guarantee insurance in the lease classification test, and overall aligns with the new revenue recognition guidance.
The company elected the package of practical expedients not to reassess prior conclusions related to contracts containing leases, lease classification and initial direct costs (IDCs) and the lessee practical expedient to combine lease and nonlease components for all asset classes.
The company made a policy election to not recognize ROU assets and lease liabilities for short-term leases for all asset classes.
As a lessee, at adoption, the company recognized operating and financing ROU assets of $4.8 billion and $0.2 billion, respectively, and operating and financing lease liabilities of $5.1 billion and $0.2 billion, respectively.
The company adopted the guidance on January 1, 2019 on a prospective basis.
The guidance required certain equity investments to be measured at fair value with changes recognized in net income.Financial results adjusted for currency are calculated by translating current period activity in local currency using the comparable prior year period’s currency conversion rate.
The company’s reportable segment financial results reflect pre-tax operating earnings from continuing operations, consistent with the company’s management and measurement system.
Total cloud revenue of $5.0 billion in the third quarter of 2019 grew 11 percent as reported and 12 percent adjusted for currency.
Total operating (non-GAAP) expense and other (income) increased 15.9 percent year to year, driven primarily by the higher spending described above.
The continuing operations effective tax rate for the third quarter of 2019 was (9.9) percent, a decrease of 20.1 points compared to the third quarter of 2018.
The year-to-year decrease was primarily driven by a benefit from the realization of a tax only capital loss in a subsidiary (10.7 points), an increase in tax benefits attributable to audit activity (4.3 points), as well as a benefit due to the mix of geographic income year to year (5.0 points), primarily driven by Red Hat.
Operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax income from continuing operations of $2.4 billion decreased 33.4 percent year to year and the operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax margin from continuing operations decreased 5.9 points to 13.3 percent.
Operating (non-GAAP) income from continuing operations of $2.4 billion decreased 23.6 percent with an operating (non-GAAP) income margin from continuing operations of 13.3 percent, down 3.4 points year to year.
Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $1.87 in the third quarter of 2019 decreased 36.4 percent and operating (non-GAAP) diluted earnings per share of $2.68 decreased 21.6 percent versus the third quarter of 2018.