item1.txt
The guidance requires lessees to recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for most leases in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
The guidance makes some changes to lessor accounting, including the elimination of the use of third-party residual value guarantee insurance in the capital lease test, and overall aligns with the new revenue recognition guidance.
The company will adopt the guidance as of the effective date.
The company is currently evaluating the impact of the new guidance on its consolidated financial results and expects it will have a material impact on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
The company is currently planning on electing the package of practical expedients to not reassess prior conclusions related to contracts containing leases, lease classification and initial direct costs and is evaluating the other practical expedients available under the guidance.
In August 2017, the FASB issued guidance to simplify the application of current hedge accounting in certain areas, better portray the economic results of an entity’s risk management activities in its financial statements and make targeted improvements to presentation and disclosure requirements.
The company adopted the guidance as of January 1, 2018, and it did not have a material impact in the consolidated financial results.
The company adopted the guidance on the effective date.
Certain equity investments are now measured at fair value with changes recognized in net income.
The company adopted the guidance effective January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective transition method.
At adoption, $557 million was reclassified from notes and accounts receivable-trade and deferred income-current to prepaid expenses and other current assets to establish the opening balance for net contract assets.
In-scope sales commission costs previously recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings were capitalized in deferred costs in accordance with the transition guidance, in the amount of $737 million.
Deferred income of $29 million was recorded for certain software licenses that will be recognized over time versus at a point in time under previous guidance.
Additionally, net deferred taxes were reduced $184 million in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, resulting in a cumulative-effect net increase to retained earnings of $524 million.
The company expects revenue recognition for its broad portfolio of hardware, software, and services offerings to remain largely unchanged.


item2.txt
The references to “adjusted for currency” or “at constant currency” in the Management Discussion do not include operational impacts that could result from fluctuations in foreign currency rates.
When the company refers to growth rates at constant currency or adjusts such growth rates for currency, it is done so that certain financial results can be viewed without the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, thereby facilitating period-to-period comparisons of its business performance.
Financial results adjusted for currency are calculated by translating current period activity in local currency using the comparable prior year period’s currency conversion rate.
In the first quarter of 2018, the company reported $19.1 billion in revenue, $1.7 billion in income from continuing operations and operating (non-GAAP) earnings of $2.3 billion, resulting in diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $1.81 as reported and $2.45 on an operating (non-GAAP) basis.
The company also generated $4.6 billion in cash from operations and $1.3 billion in free cash flow in the first quarter of 2018 and delivered shareholder returns of $2.2 billion through gross common stock repurchases and dividends.
The first-quarter results demonstrate the work the company has done to reposition the business to lead in the high-value segments of IT, its differentiated value proposition and that its financial strategy and model are built to deliver to clients and shareholders over the long term.
Strategic imperatives revenue of $9.0 billion increased 15 percent as reported and 10 percent adjusted for currency in the first quarter, with double-digit growth in cloud, security and mobile, as the company continues to build new platforms and solutions and embeds cloud and AI capabilities across the business.
Strategic imperatives revenue over the last 12 months was $37.7 billion, an increase of 12 percent as reported and 10 percent adjusted for currency, representing 47 percent of the company’s total revenue.
Total Cloud revenue in the first quarter of 2018 of $4.2 billion increased 20 percent as reported and 14 percent adjusted for currency, with as-a-Service revenue up 25 percent as reported and 20 percent adjusted for currency.
The annual exit run rate for as-a-Service revenue increased to $10.7 billion in the first quarter of 2018 compared to $8.6 billion in the first quarter of 2017.
Analytics revenue of $4.8 billion increased 9 percent as reported and 4 percent adjusted for currency.
Mobile revenue increased 19 percent as reported and 14 percent adjusted for currency and Security revenue increased 65 percent (60 percent adjusted for currency), reflecting strong demand for the company’s highly-integrated security software, security managed services and the pervasive encryption capabilities in the z14 mainframe, and growth in security software solutions.
Total expense and other (income) increased 9.1 percent in the first quarter of 2018 driven by actions the company took during the quarter to continue the repositioning of the business and due to currency impacts.
The year-to-year increase was primarily the result of a higher level of workforce rebalancing charges (5 points) to further align the company’s skills to the higher value areas, the effects of currency (5 points) and a lower level of intellectual property (IP) income (2 points), partially offset by lower operational spending (3 points), reflecting both a high level of investment and a continued focus on driving productivity.


part2.txt
Item 1.


