item1.txt
Noncontrolling interest amounts of $4.9 million and $3.8 million, net of tax, for the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $11.9 million and $11.7 million, net of tax, for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, are included as a reduction within other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.
The company expects to adopt the guidance on a prospective basis on the effective date.
The guidance requires lessees to recognize right-of-use (ROU) assets and lease liabilities for most leases in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
The guidance also made some changes to lessor accounting, including elimination of the use of third-party residual value guarantee insurance in the lease classification test, and overall aligns with the new revenue recognition guidance.
The company adopted the guidance effective January 1, 2019, using the transition option whereby prior comparative periods were not retrospectively presented in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The company elected the package of practical expedients not to reassess prior conclusions related to contracts containing leases, lease classification and initial direct costs and the lessee practical expedient to combine lease and nonlease components for all asset classes.
The company made a policy election to not recognize ROU assets and lease liabilities for short-term leases for all asset classes.
As a lessee, at adoption, the company recognized operating and financing ROU assets of $4.8 billion and $0.2 billion, respectively, and operating and financing lease liabilities of $5.1 billion and $0.2 billion, respectively.
From a lessor perspective, the changes in lease termination guidance and removal of third-party residual value guarantee insurance in the lease classification test did not have a material impact in the consolidated financial results.
The company adopted the guidance on January 1, 2019 on a prospective basis.
The company adopted the guidance as of January 1, 2018, and it did not have a material impact in the consolidated financial results.
At adoption, $557 million was reclassified from notes and accounts receivable-trade and deferred income-current to prepaid expenses and other current assets to establish the opening balance for net contract assets.
In-scope sales commission costs previously recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings were capitalized in deferred costs in accordance with the transition guidance, in the amount of $737 million.
Additionally, net deferred taxes were reduced by $184 million in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, resulting in a cumulative-effect net increase to retained earnings of $524 million.
In the fourth quarter of 2018, the company recognized an additional impact to net deferred taxes and retained earnings of $56 million, resulting in a total net increase to retained earnings of $580 million.


item2.txt
The references to “adjusted for currency” or “at constant currency” in the Management Discussion do not include operational impacts that could result from fluctuations in foreign currency rates.
When the company refers to growth rates at constant currency or adjusts such growth rates for currency, it is done so that certain financial results can be viewed without the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, thereby facilitating period-to-period comparisons of its business performance.
Financial results adjusted for currency are calculated by translating current period activity in local currency using the comparable prior year period’s currency conversion rate.
In the second quarter of 2019, the company reported $19.2 billion in revenue, $2.5 billion in income from continuing operations and operating (non-GAAP) earnings of $2.8 billion, resulting in diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $2.81 as reported and $3.17 on an operating (non-GAAP) basis.
The company has taken significant actions to improve its position over time including the completion of the two software asset divestitures and workforce actions in the second quarter as well as the acquisition of Red Hat on July 9, 2019.
Total expense and other (income) decreased 2.8 percent in the second quarter of 2019 compared to the prior year.
The year-to-year performance was driven by gains from the divestitures (9 points), the impact of currency (4 points) and lower non-operating retirement-related costs (4 points), partially offset by a higher level of workforce rebalancing charges (7 points) and higher spending and litigation matters (5 points).
Total operating (non-GAAP) expense and other (income) decreased 0.2 percent year to year, driven primarily by the same factors, excluding the non-operating retirement-related costs.
Pre-tax income from continuing operations of $2.8 billion decreased 0.3 percent and the pre-tax margin was 14.4 percent, an increase of 0.6 points versus the prior-year period.
The continuing operations effective tax rate for the second quarter of 2019 was 9.7 percent, a decrease of 3.7 points compared to the second quarter of 2018.
The year-to-year change was primarily driven by an increase in tax benefits attributable to foreign audit activity (3.7 points).
Net income of $2.5 billion increased 3.9 percent and the net income margin was 13.0 percent, an increase of 1.0 points year to year.
Operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax income from continuing operations of $3.2 billion decreased 5.9 percent year to year and the operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax margin from continuing operations decreased 0.3 points to 16.6 percent.
The operating (non-GAAP) tax rate for the second quarter of 2019 was 11.0 percent, a decrease of 5.0 points compared to the second quarter of 2018.
The change in the operating (non-GAAP) tax rate was primarily driven by the same factor mentioned above.


part2.txt



