item1.txt
Noncontrolling interest amounts of $6.2 million and $4.4 million, net of tax, for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $17.9 million and $11.5 million, net of tax, for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, are included as a reduction within other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.
The company will adopt the guidance on January 1, 2019 on a prospective basis, and does not expect the guidance to have a material impact on the consolidated financial results.
The guidance requires lessees to recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for most leases in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
The guidance makes some changes to lessor accounting, including the elimination of the use of third-party residual value guarantee insurance in the lease classification test, and overall aligns with the new revenue recognition guidance.
The company will 
adopt the guidance as of the effective date and will apply the transition option, whereby prior comparative periods will not be retrospectively presented in the consolidated financial statements.
The company expects to elect the package of practical expedients not to reassess prior conclusions related to contracts containing leases, lease classification and initial direct costs and the lessee practical expedient to combine lease and nonlease components for all asset classes.
The company will make a policy election to not recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for short-term leases for all asset classes.
The company continues to evaluate the impact of the new guidance on its consolidated financial results and expects it will have a material impact on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
From a lessor perspective, due to changes in lease termination guidance, when equipment is returned to the company prior to the end of the lease term, the carrying amounts of lease receivables, which remain outstanding relating to that equipment and still expected to be collected, will be reclassified to loan receivables.
Additionally, the company does not expect the removal of third-party residual value guarantee insurance in the lease classification test to have a material impact on the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.
In August 2017, the FASB issued guidance to simplify the application of hedge accounting in certain areas, better portray the economic results of an entity’s risk management activities in its financial statements and make targeted improvements to presentation and disclosure requirements.
The company adopted the guidance as of January 1, 2018, and it did not have a material impact in the consolidated financial results.
The company adopted the guidance on the effective date.
Certain equity investments are now measured at fair value with changes recognized in net income.


item2.txt
In the third quarter of 2018, the company reported $18.8 billion in revenue, $2.7 billion in income from continuing operations and operating (non-GAAP) earnings of $3.1 billion, resulting in diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $2.94 as reported and $3.42 on an operating (non-GAAP) basis.
The consolidated gross margin of 46.9 percent and operating (non-GAAP) gross margin of 47.4 percent were each flat compared to the prior year, representing the company’s strongest year-to-year gross margin performance in three years.
The company generated $4.2 billion in cash from operations and $2.2 billion in free cash flow in the third quarter of 2018, and delivered shareholder returns of $2.1 billion through gross common stock repurchases and dividends.
Total consolidated revenue decreased 2.1 percent as reported but was flat adjusted for currency in the third quarter, with continued growth in offerings in hybrid cloud, security, digital, analytics and AI.
Pre-tax income from continuing operations of $3.0 billion decreased 2.2 percent and the pre-tax margin was 16.0 percent, flat year to year.
The continuing operations effective tax rate was 10.2 percent compared to 11.0 percent in the third quarter of 2017.
Income from continuing operations of $2.7 billion decreased 1.3 percent and the net income margin was 14.4 percent, an increase from 14.2 percent in the third quarter of 2017.
Net income of $2.7 billion decreased 1.2 percent year to year.
Operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax income from continuing operations of $3.6 billion increased 0.5 percent year to year and the operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax margin from continuing operations increased 0.5 points to 19.2 percent.
Operating (non-GAAP) income from continuing operations of $3.1 billion increased 2.9 percent with an operating (non-GAAP) income margin from continuing operations of 16.7 percent, an increase of 0.8 points year to year.
The operating (non-GAAP) effective tax rate from continuing operations in the third quarter of 2018 was 12.8 percent, a decline of 2.0 points.
Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $2.94 increased 0.7 percent and operating (non-GAAP) diluted earnings per share of $3.42 increased 4.9 percent versus the third quarter of 2017.
In the first nine months of 2018, the company reported $57.8 billion in revenue, and delivered $6.8 billion in income from continuing operations, resulting in diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $7.36 as reported and $8.96 on an operating (non-GAAP) basis.
The company generated $11.1 billion in cash from operations and $5.4 billion in free cash flow in the first nine months of 2018 and delivered shareholder returns of $6.6 billion through gross common stock repurchases and dividends.


part2.txt



