fls.txt



item1.txt
The company expects to adopt the guidance on a prospective basis on the effective date.
The new guidance expands the scope of financial instruments subject to impairment, including off-balance sheet commitments and residual value.
The guidance requires lessees to recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for most leases in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
The guidance also made some changes to lessor accounting, including elimination of the use of third-party residual value guarantee insurance in the lease classification test, and overall aligns with the new revenue recognition guidance.
The company elected the package of practical expedients not to reassess prior conclusions related to contracts containing leases, lease classification and initial direct costs and the lessee practical expedient to combine lease and nonlease components for all asset classes.
The company made a policy election to not recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for short-term leases for all asset classes.
As a lessee, at adoption, the company recognized operating and financing right-of-use (ROU) assets of $4.8 billion and $0.2 billion, respectively, and operating and financing lease liabilities of $5.1 billion and $0.2 billion, respectively.
The company adopted the guidance on January 1, 2019 on a prospective basis.
The guidance required certain equity investments to be measured at fair value with changes recognized in net income.
In the fourth quarter of 2018, the company recognized an additional impact to net deferred taxes and retained earnings of $56 million, resulting in a total net increase to retained earnings of $580 million.
The remaining performance obligation (RPO) disclosure provides the aggregate amount of the transaction price yet to be recognized as of the end of the reporting period and an explanation as to when the company expects to recognize these amounts in revenue.
Additionally, as a practical expedient, the company does not include contracts that have an original duration of one year or less.
For the three months ending March 31, 2018, revenue was reduced by $22 million for performance obligations satisfied (or partially satisfied) in previous periods, mainly due to changes in estimates on percentage-of-completion based contracts.
The amount of revenue recognized during the three months ended March 31, 2019 that was included within the deferred income balance at December 31, 2018 was $3.5 billion and primarily related to services and software.
The amount of revenue recognized during the three months ended March 31, 2018 that was included within the deferred income balance at January 1, 2018 was $3.5 billion and was also primarily related to services and software.


item2.txt
Financial results adjusted for currency are calculated by translating current period activity in local currency using the comparable prior year period’s currency conversion rate.
The following table provides the company’s operating (non-GAAP) earnings for the first quarter of 2019 and 2018.
In the first quarter of 2019, the company reported $18.2 billion in revenue, $1.6 billion in income from continuing operations and operating (non-GAAP) earnings of $2.0 billion, resulting in diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $1.78 as reported and $2.25 on an operating (non-GAAP) basis.
The company also generated $4.8 billion in cash from operations, $1.7 billion in free cash flow and delivered shareholder returns of $2.3 billion in gross common stock repurchases and dividends.
As the company continued to optimize its portfolio and invest in emerging, high-value areas of the IT industry, there was strong performance in offerings that help clients with their digital transformation and shift of mission-critical work to the cloud.
Total cloud revenue of $4.5 billion in the first quarter of 2019 grew 7 percent as reported and 12 percent adjusted for currency.
The annual exit run rate for as-a-Service revenue was $11.7 billion, an increase of 10 percent as reported and 15 percent adjusted for currency.
The company has been focused on improving margins and the results in the first quarter reflect the actions that have been taken to focus on higher value and portfolio optimization, and also in driving productivity and operational efficiency — especially in the services businesses.
Total expense and other (income) decreased 13.4 percent in the first quarter of 2019 compared to the prior year.
Pre-tax income from continuing operations of $1.9 billion increased 65.8 percent and the pre-tax margin was 10.4 percent, an increase of 4.4 points versus 2018.
The continuing operations effective tax rate for the first quarter of 2019 was 15.4 percent, an increase of 62.9 points compared to the first quarter of 2018.
Net income of $1.6 billion decreased 5.2 percent and the net income margin was 8.8 percent, flat year to year.
Operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax income from continuing operations of $2.2 billion grew 28.3 percent year to year and the operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax margin from continuing operations increased 3.2 points to 12.3 percent.
The operating (non-GAAP) tax rate for the first quarter of 2019 was 10.0 percent, an increase of 40.6 points compared to the first quarter of 2018.


item4.txt



part2.txt



