fls.txt



item1.txt
Acuity Brands, Inc. (“Acuity Brands”) is the parent company of Acuity Brands Lighting, Inc. (“ABL”) and other wholly-owned subsidiaries (Acuity Brands, ABL, and such other subsidiaries are collectively referred to herein as “we,” “our,” “us,” “the Company,” or similar references) and was incorporated in 2001 under the laws of the State of Delaware.
We are one of the world’s leading providers of lighting and building management solutions and services for commercial, institutional, industrial, infrastructure, and residential applications throughout North America and select international markets.
Our lighting and building management solutions include devices such as luminaires, lighting controls, controllers for various building systems, power supplies, prismatic skylights, and drivers, as well as integrated systems designed to optimize energy efficiency and comfort for various indoor and outdoor applications.
Additionally, we continue to expand our solutions portfolio, including software and services, to provide a host of other economic benefits resulting from data analytics that enables the Internet of Things (“IoT”), supports the advancement of smart buildings, smart cities, and the smart grid, and allows businesses to develop custom applications to scale their operations.
GAAP”) to present the financial position, results of operations, and cash flows of Acuity Brands and its wholly-owned subsidiaries.
However, we believe that the disclosures included herein are adequate to make the information presented not misleading.
Refer to the New Accounting Pronouncements footnote for additional information regarding retrospective reclassifications related to accounting standards adopted in the current year.
On May 1, 2018, using cash on hand and borrowings available under existing credit arrangements, we acquired all of the equity interests of IOTA Engineering, LLC (“IOTA”).
IOTA is headquartered in Tucson, Arizona and manufactures highly engineered emergency lighting products and power equipment for commercial and institutional applications both in the U.S. and international markets.
On February 12, 2018, using cash on hand, we acquired all of the equity interests of Lucid Design Group, Inc (“Lucid”).
Lucid is headquartered in Oakland, California and provides a data and analytics platform to make data-driven decisions to improve building efficiency and drive energy conservation and savings.
The aggregate purchase price of these acquisitions reflects total goodwill and identified intangible assets of approximately $76.8 million and $81.8 million, respectively, as of May 31, 2019.
Identified intangible assets consist of indefinite-lived marketing-related intangibles as well as definite-lived customer-based and technology-based assets, which have a weighted average useful life of approximately 14 years.
Since the issuance of ASU 2014-09, the FASB released several amendments to improve and clarify the implementation guidance, as well as to change the effective date.
ASC 606 outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers.
We adopted ASC 606 effective September 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method and recognized a cumulative effect of applying ASC 606 of $13.0 million in Retained earnings on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of this date.


item2.txt
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included within this report.
Also, please refer to Acuity Brands' Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2018, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) on October 25, 2018 (“Form 10-K”).
Acuity Brands is the parent company of Acuity Brands Lighting, Inc. (“ABL”) and other subsidiaries (Acuity Brands, ABL, and such other subsidiaries are collectively referred to herein as “we,” “our,” “us,” “the Company,” or similar references).
We are one of the world’s leading providers of lighting and building management solutions and services for commercial, institutional, industrial, infrastructure, and residential applications throughout North America and select international markets.
As of May 31, 2019, we operate 18 manufacturing facilities and eight distribution facilities along with three warehouses to serve our extensive customer base.
IOTA is headquartered in Tucson, Arizona and manufactures highly engineered emergency lighting products and power equipment for commercial and institutional applications both in the U.S. and internationally.
Lucid is headquartered in Oakland, California and provides a data and analytics platform to make data-driven decisions to improve building efficiency and drive energy conservation and savings.
Our principal sources of liquidity are operating cash flows generated primarily from our business operations, cash on hand, and various sources of borrowings.
Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or to access certain capital markets, including banks, is necessary to fund our operations and capital expenditures, pay dividends, repurchase shares, meet obligations as they become due, and maintain compliance with covenants contained in our financing agreements.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
EXHIBIT 3(a)Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Acuity Brands, Inc. (formerly Acuity Brands Holdings, Inc.), dated as of September 26, 2007.
Reference is made to Exhibit 3.1 of registrant's Form 8-K as filed with the Commission on September 26, 2007, which is incorporated herein by reference.
 (b)Certificate of Amendment of Acuity Brands, Inc. (formerly Acuity Brands Holdings, Inc.), dated as of September 26, 2007.


