Item 2.
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations     

Overview 



Since 1985, we have pursued a business strategy of growth through focused research and development and acquisitions.
Through this strategy, we have grown to become one of the world's largest manufacturers of discrete semiconductors and passive components.
We expect to continue our strategy of acquisitions while also maintaining a prudent capital structure.
We are focused on enhancing stockholder value and improving earnings per share.
In addition to our growth plan, we also have opportunistically repurchased our stock.
In 2014, our Board of Directors instituted a quarterly dividend payment program and declared the first cash dividend in the history of Vishay.
In December 2015, we amended our credit facility to increase our ability to repurchase shares of stock or pay cash dividends.
On August 2, 2017, our Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase plan, authorizing us to repurchase, in the aggregate, up to $150 million of our outstanding common stock.
The stock repurchase plan will expire on June 1, 2018.
The stock repurchase plan does not obligate us to acquire any particular amount of common stock, and it may be terminated or suspended at any time at the Company's direction in accordance with the plan.
The Company repurchased 2,250,236 shares of stock for $39.9 million since the inception of this plan.
No repurchases were made in the first fiscal quarter of 2018.
As part of the amendment and restatement of the revolving credit facility in December 2015, we completed an evaluation of our anticipated domestic cash needs over the next several years and our most efficient use of liquidity, with consideration of the amount of cash that can be repatriated to the U.S. efficiently with lesser withholding taxes in foreign jurisdictions.
As a result of that evaluation, during the fourth quarter of 2015, we recognized income tax expense of $164.0 million, including U.S. federal and state income taxes, incremental foreign income taxes, and withholding taxes payable to foreign jurisdictions, on $300 million of foreign earnings which we expect to repatriate to the U.S. over the next several years.
We repatriated $38 million and $46 million to the U.S. pursuant to this plan in 2017 and 2016, respectively.
Our business and operating results have been and will continue to be impacted by worldwide economic conditions.
Our revenues are dependent on end markets that are impacted by consumer and industrial demand, and our operating results can be adversely affected by reduced demand in those global markets.
For several years, we implemented aggressive cost reduction programs.
We continue to monitor the current economic environment and its potential effects on our customers and the end markets that we serve.
Additionally, we continue to closely monitor our costs, inventory, and capital resources to respond to changing conditions and to ensure we have the management, business processes, and resources to meet our future needs.
In the fourth fiscal quarter of 2017, we substantially completed our cost reduction programs, which had been ongoing since 2013.
Our cost reduction programs are more fully described in Note 4 to the consolidated condensed financial statements included in Item 1, and in "Cost Management" below.
See additional information regarding our competitive strengths and key challenges as disclosed in Part 1 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed with the SEC on February 16, 2018.
We utilize several financial metrics, including net revenues, gross profit margin, segment operating income, end-of-period backlog, book-to-bill ratio, inventory turnover, change in average selling prices, net cash and short-term investments (debt), and free cash generation to evaluate the performance and assess the future direction of our business.
See further discussion in "Financial Metrics" and "Financial Condition, Liquidity, and Capital Resources" below.
In the first fiscal quarter of 2018, we retrospectively adopted two new accounting standards, which impacted previously reported net revenues, gross profit margin, and segment operating income.
The amounts previously reported for these metrics have been recast.
See additional information in Note 1 to the consolidated condensed financial statements included in Item 1.
We experienced a continued high level of demand in virtually all end-markets in the first fiscal quarter of 2018.
Net revenues increased significantly versus the prior fiscal quarter and the prior year quarter.
The strong order levels of 2017 continued in the first fiscal quarter of 2018 and resulted in continued strong metrics and an increase in nearly all key financial metrics compared to the prior quarter and prior year quarter.
Net revenues for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2018 were $716.8 million, compared to $673.5 million and $604.8 million for the fiscal quarters ended December 31, 2017 and April 1, 2017, respectively.
The net earnings attributable to Vishay stockholders for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2018 were $62.4 million, or $0.39 per diluted share, compared to net loss attributable to Vishay stockholders of $(177.7) million, or $(1.23) per share for the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2017, and net earnings attributable to Vishay stockholders of $36.7 million, or $0.24 per diluted share for the fiscal quarter ended April 1, 2017.
We define adjusted net earnings as net earnings determined in accordance with GAAP adjusted for various items that management believes are not indicative of the intrinsic operating performance of our business.
We define free cash as the cash flows generated from continuing operations less capital expenditures plus net proceeds from the sale of property and equipment.
The reconciliations below include certain financial measures which are not recognized in accordance with GAAP, including adjusted net earnings, adjusted earnings per share, and free cash.
These non-GAAP measures should not be viewed as alternatives to GAAP measures of performance or liquidity.
Non-GAAP measures such as adjusted net earnings, adjusted earnings per share, and free cash do not have uniform definitions.
These measures, as calculated by Vishay, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.
Management believes that adjusted net earnings and adjusted earnings per share are meaningful because they provide insight with respect to our intrinsic operating results.
Management believes that free cash is a meaningful measure of our ability to fund acquisitions, repay debt, and otherwise enhance stockholder value through stock repurchases or dividends.
Although the term "free cash" is not defined in GAAP, each of the elements used to calculate free cash for the year-to-date period is presented as a line item on the face of our consolidated condensed statement of cash flows prepared in accordance with GAAP and the quarterly amounts are derived from the year-to-date GAAP statements as of the beginning and end of the respective quarter.
Our results for the fiscal quarters ended March 31, 2018, December 31, 2017, and April 1, 2017 represent the effects of a strong business environment and order activity, our cost reduction programs, and our organic growth initiatives.
We experienced a relatively sharp upturn in demand beginning in the first quarter of 2017 that has continued through first fiscal quarter of 2018 and further improved results.
Our percentage of euro-based sales approximates our percentage of euro-based expenses so the foreign currency impact on revenues was substantially offset by the impact on expenses.
Our pre-tax results were consistent with expectations based on our business model.
Financial Metrics 

We utilize several financial metrics to evaluate the performance and assess the future direction of our business.
These key financial measures and metrics include net revenues, gross profit margin, operating margin, segment operating income, end-of-period backlog, and the book-to-bill ratio.
We also monitor changes in inventory turnover and our or publicly available average selling prices ("ASP").
Gross profit margin is computed as gross profit as a percentage of net revenues.
Gross profit is generally net revenues less costs of products sold, but also deducts certain other period costs, particularly losses on purchase commitments and inventory write-downs.
Losses on purchase commitments and inventory write-downs have the impact of reducing gross profit margin in the period of the charge, but result in improved gross profit margins in subsequent periods by reducing costs of products sold as inventory is used.
Gross profit margin is clearly a function of net revenues, but also reflects our cost management programs and our ability to contain fixed costs.
Operating margin is computed as gross profit less operating expenses as a percentage of net revenues.
We evaluate business segment performance on segment operating margin.
Only dedicated, direct selling, general, and administrative expenses of the segments are included in the calculation of segment operating income.
Segment operating margin is computed as operating income less items such as restructuring and severance costs, asset write-downs, goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible asset impairments, inventory write-downs, gains or losses on purchase commitments, global operations, sales and marketing, information systems, finance and administrative groups, and other items, expressed as a percentage of net revenues.
We believe that evaluating segment performance excluding such items is meaningful because it provides insight with respect to intrinsic operating results of the segment.
Operating margin is clearly a function of net revenues, but also reflects our cost management programs and our ability to contain fixed costs.
End-of-period backlog is one indicator of future revenues.
We include in our backlog only open orders that we expect to ship in the next twelve months.
If demand falls below customers' forecasts, or if customers do not control their inventory effectively, they may cancel or reschedule the shipments that are included in our backlog, in many instances without the payment of any penalty.
Therefore, the backlog is not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for future periods.
An important indicator of demand in our industry is the book-to-bill ratio, which is the ratio of the amount of product ordered during a period as compared with the product that we ship during that period.
A book-to-bill ratio that is greater than one indicates that our backlog is building and that we are likely to see increasing revenues in future periods.
Conversely, a book-to-bill ratio that is less than one is an indicator of declining demand and may foretell declining revenues.
We focus on our inventory turnover as a measure of how well we are managing our inventory.
We define inventory turnover for a financial reporting period as our costs of products sold for the four fiscal quarters ending on the last day of the reporting period divided by our average inventory (computed using each fiscal quarter-end balance) for this same period.
A higher level of inventory turnover reflects more efficient use of our capital.
Pricing in our industry can be volatile.
Using our and publicly available data, we analyze trends and changes in average selling prices to evaluate likely future pricing.
The erosion of average selling prices of established products is typical for semiconductor products.
We attempt to offset this deterioration with ongoing cost reduction activities and new product introductions.
Our specialty passive components are more resistant to average selling price erosion.
All pricing is subject to governing market conditions and is independently set by us.
See "Financial Metrics by Segment" below for net revenues, book-to-bill ratio, and gross profit margin broken out by segment.
Revenues increased versus the prior fiscal quarter and first fiscal quarter of 2017.
The continued strong demand further increased the backlog while the book-to-bill ratio remains high.
Distributors continue to drive the high order rate.
Many of our product lines are operating at or near capacity, but the high order rates have increased product delivery leadtimes and even caused some shortages of supply.
We continue to raise critical capacities ambitiously while remaining careful in adding operational fixed costs.
Sequentially, average selling prices were virtually stable, reflective of the strong business environment.
Gross profit margin increased versus the prior fiscal quarter and the first fiscal quarter of 2017.
The increases are primarily volume-driven with decreasing average selling prices burdening each period.
The book-to-bill ratio in the first fiscal quarter of 2018 remained strong at 1.22 versus 1.28 in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2017.
The book-to-bill ratios in the first fiscal quarter of 2018 for distributors and original equipment manufacturers ("OEM") were 1.28 and 1.16, respectively, versus ratios of 1.40 and 1.13, respectively, during the fourth fiscal quarter of 2017.
For the second fiscal quarter of 2018, we anticipate revenues between $740 million and $780 million and gross margins of 28.5% to 29.5% at the exchange rates of the first fiscal quarter.
Financial Metrics by Segment 






On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "TCJA") was enacted in the United States.
The TCJA represents sweeping changes in U.S. tax law.
Among the numerous changes in tax law, the TCJA permanently reduces the U.S. corporate income tax rate to 21% beginning in 2018; imposes a one-time transition tax on deferred foreign earnings; establishes a partial territorial tax system by allowing a 100% dividends received deduction on qualifying dividends paid by foreign subsidiaries; limits deductions for net interest expense; and expands the U.S. taxation of foreign earned income to include "global intangible low-taxed income" of foreign subsidiaries.
Under U.S. GAAP (specifically, ASC Topic 740), the effects of changes in tax rates and laws on deferred tax balances are recognized in the period in which the new legislation is enacted.
The total effect of tax law changes on deferred tax balances was recorded as a component of income tax expense in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2017.
In response to the TCJA, the Staff of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
118 ("SAB No.
118") to provide guidance to registrants in applying ASC Topic 740 in connection with the TCJA.
118 provides that in the period of enactment, the income tax effects of the TCJA may be reported as a provisional amount based on a reasonable estimate (to the extent a reasonable estimate can be determined), which would be subject to adjustment during a "measurement period".
The measurement period begins in the reporting period of the TCJA's enactment and ends when a registrant has obtained, prepared, and analyzed the information that was needed in order to complete the accounting requirements under ASC Topic 740.
118 also describes supplemental disclosures that should accompany the provisional amounts.
The TCJA represents the first significant change in U.S. tax law in over 30 years.
As permitted by SAB No.
118, the net tax expense recorded in our financial statements for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2017 due to the enactment of the TCJA is considered "provisional," based on reasonable estimates.
We are continuing to collect and analyze detailed information about the earnings and profits of our non-U.S. subsidiaries, the related taxes paid, the amounts which could be repatriated, the foreign taxes which may be incurred on repatriation, and the associated impact of these items under the TCJA.
We may record adjustments to refine those estimates during the measurement period, as additional analysis is completed, but have not recorded any adjustments in the first fiscal quarter of 2018.
Furthermore, we are continuing to evaluate the TCJA's provisions and may prospectively adjust our financial and capital structure and business practices accordingly.
As a result of the TCJA, we recognized a provisional tax benefit of $74.8 million to remeasure our net deferred tax liabilities at the lower, 21% rate.
Due to the changes in taxation of dividends received from foreign subsidiaries, and also because of the need to finance the payment of the transition tax, we made the determination during the fourth fiscal quarter of 2017 that certain unremitted foreign earnings in Israel, Germany, Austria, and France are no longer permanently reinvested, and have recorded provisional tax expense of $213.0 million to accrue the incremental foreign income taxes and withholding taxes payable to foreign jurisdictions assuming the hypothetical repatriation to the United States of these approximately $1.1 billion of available foreign earnings.
Due to the existence of the foreign cash taxes payable at the source, we expect to actually repatriate these amounts at a measured pace over several years, and may decide to ultimately not repatriate some of these amounts.
There are additional amounts of unremitted foreign earnings in other countries, which continue to be reinvested indefinitely, and we have made no provision for incremental foreign income taxes and withholding taxes payable to foreign jurisdictions related to these amounts.
Determination of the amount of the unrecognized deferred foreign tax liability for these amounts is not practicable because of the complexities associated with its hypothetical calculation.
During the fourth fiscal quarter of 2015, we recognized income tax, including U.S. federal and state income taxes, incremental foreign income taxes, and withholding taxes payable to foreign jurisdictions, on $300 million of foreign earnings.
This tax expense was recognized in 2015 following an evaluation of our anticipated domestic cash needs over the next several years and our most efficient use of liquidity, and with consideration of the amount of cash that could be repatriated to the U.S. efficiently with lesser withholding taxes in foreign jurisdictions.
We repatriated $38.0 million and $46.0 million pursuant to this program in 2017 and 2016, respectively.
Prior to the enactment of the TCJA, the related deferred tax liability for the 2015 repatriation plan was $118.9 million.
We have terminated the 2015 cash repatriation plan and recorded a provisional income tax benefit to reverse this deferred tax liability, which was replaced by the liability for the transition tax and foreign income and withholding taxes described above.
The deferred tax liability related to these unremitted foreign earnings is based on the available sources of cash, applicable tax rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and other factors and circumstances, as of each balance sheet date.
Changes in these underlying facts and circumstances result in changes in the deferred tax liability balance, which are recorded as tax benefit or expense.
During the first fiscal quarter of 2018, we recorded additional tax expense of $1.3 million due to the remeasurement of this deferred tax liability, primarily due to foreign currency effects.
We expect to continue to generate a significant amount of cash and profits from our non-U.S. subsidiaries, and our provision for income taxes will continue to be based on various assertions regarding the future use of that cash and profits.
Such assertions require us to consider a wide variety of U.S. federal and foreign tax laws, and the application of such laws to our operational and strategic needs.
Our GAAP interest expense generally exceeds our U.S.-based operating income, resulting in pre-tax losses in the U.S. We have historically recorded U.S. federal tax benefits on these losses, at 35%, which had the effect of reducing our consolidated GAAP tax rate.
Accordingly, the reduction in the statutory U.S. tax rate will generally increase our consolidated GAAP tax rate due to the lower tax benefits recognized on a GAAP basis.
The TCJA expands the U.S. current taxation of foreign earned income beginning in 2018.
Global intangible low-taxed income ("GILTI") is income of our non-U.S. subsidiaries that exceeds an allowable return and which will then be included in U.S. current taxable income, subject to certain adjustments, and possibly reduced by indirect foreign tax credits.
We have elected to account for GILTI tax in the period in which it is incurred, and therefore have not provided any deferred tax impacts of GILTI in our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017.
We expect to recognize a significant amount of GILTI income in 2018, and have included an estimate of such amounts in our provision for income taxes for the first fiscal quarter of 2018.
Because of the complexity of the new GILTI provisions, the rules around its implementation are not yet clear and as such, this estimate could change.
The TCJA also imposes a base erosion and anti-abuse minimum tax ("BEAT").
BEAT could potentially increase our U.S. federal income tax by disallowing certain otherwise deductible payments from the U.S. to non-U.S. subsidiaries and imposing a minimum tax if greater than the regular tax.
BEAT did not have a material impact on our provision for income taxes for the first fiscal quarter of 2018.
We are still evaluating the potential impacts of the new GILTI and BEAT tax rules.
We historically derived significant cash tax savings from our convertible debentures.
For U.S. federal income tax purposes, the interest deduction for the convertible debentures is computed based on the comparable yield of a hypothetical fixed rate debt instrument with similar terms and conditions but no conversion feature.
Accordingly, annual interest deductions are calculated at 8.0%, 8.375%, and 7.5% of the adjusted issue price.
The adjusted issue price, and consequently the interest deduction for income tax purposes, grows over the term of the debt due to the difference between the interest deduction using a comparable yield applied to the adjusted issue price, and the coupon rate of 2.5% on the principal amount.
Interest expense recognized in accordance with GAAP is calculated at the comparable yield multiplied by the carrying amount of the liability component of convertible debentures, which is substantially lower than the adjusted issue price for tax purposes.
The difference between the tax and GAAP interest computations resulted in substantially greater interest deductions for tax purposes than GAAP interest expense.
The TCJA limits deduction for net interest expense, which makes the convertible debentures less attractive financial instruments.
While the convertible debentures due 2040 and 2042 are currently convertible at the option of the holders, none of the convertible debentures are currently callable by us.
We are evaluating financing alternatives, which might include the modification or replacement of such instruments, as a result of the TCJA.
The effects of the various TCJA provisions are all interrelated and the impact of any specific item on our effective tax rate is difficult to isolate.
Acquisition Activity 

As part of our growth strategy, we seek to expand through targeted acquisitions of other manufacturers of electronic components that have established positions in major markets, reputations for product quality and reliability, and product lines with which we have substantial marketing and technical expertise.
This includes exploring opportunities to acquire targets to gain market share, penetrate different geographic markets, enhance new product development, round out our existing product lines, or grow our high margin niche market businesses.
Acquisitions of passive components businesses would likely be made to strengthen and broaden our position as a specialty product supplier; acquisitions of discrete semiconductor businesses would be made to increase market share and to generate synergies.
To limit our financial exposure, we have implemented a policy not to pursue acquisitions if our post-acquisition debt would exceed 2.5x our pro forma earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization ("EBITDA").
For these purposes, we calculate pro forma EBITDA as the adjusted EBITDA of Vishay and the target for Vishay's four preceding fiscal quarters, with a pro forma adjustment for savings which management estimates would have been achieved had the target been acquired by Vishay at the beginning of the four fiscal quarter period.
There is no assurance that we will be able to identify and acquire additional suitable acquisition candidates at price levels and on terms and conditions we consider acceptable.
Cost Management 

We place a strong emphasis on controlling our costs, and use various measures and metrics to evaluate our cost structure.
We define variable costs as expenses that vary with respect to quantity produced.
Fixed costs do not vary with respect to quantity produced over the relevant time period.
Contributive margin is calculated as net revenue less variable costs.
It may be expressed in dollars or as a percentage of net revenue.
Management uses this measure to determine the amount of profit to be expected for any change in revenues.
While these measures are typical cost accounting measures, none of these measures are recognized in accordance with GAAP.
The classification of expenses as either variable or fixed is judgmental and other companies might classify such expenses differently.
These measures, as calculated by Vishay, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.
We closely monitor variable costs and seek to achieve the contributive margin in our business model.
Over a period of many years, we have generally maintained a contributive margin of between 45% - 47% of revenues.
The erosion of average selling prices, particularly of our semiconductor products, that is typical of our industry and inflation negatively impact contributive margin and drive us to continually seek ways to reduce our variable costs.
Our variable cost reduction efforts include increasing the efficiency in our production facilities by expending capital for automation, reducing materials costs, materials substitution, increasing wafer size and shrinking dies to maximize efficiency in our semiconductor production processes, and other yield improvement activities.
Our cost management strategy also includes a focus on controlling fixed costs recorded as costs of products sold or selling, general, and administrative expenses and maintaining our break-even point (adjusted for acquisitions).
We seek to limit increases in selling, general, and administrative expenses to the rate of inflation, excluding foreign currency exchange effects and substantially independent of sales volume changes.
At constant fixed costs, we would expect each $1 million increase in revenues to increase our operating income by approximately $450,000 to $470,000.
Sudden changes in the business conditions, however, may not allow us to quickly adapt our manufacturing capacity and cost structure.
Occasionally, our ongoing cost containment activities are not adequate and we must take actions to maintain our cost competitiveness.
We incurred significant restructuring expenses in our past to reduce our cost structure.
Historically, our primary cost reduction technique was through the transfer of production to the extent possible from high-labor-cost countries to lower-labor-cost countries.
We believe that our manufacturing footprint is suitable to serve our customers and end markets, while maintaining lower manufacturing costs.
Since 2013, our cost reduction programs have primarily focused on reducing fixed costs, including selling, general, and administrative expenses.
We do not anticipate any material restructuring activities in 2018.
We continue to monitor the economic environment and its potential effects on our customers and the end markets that we serve.
We also continue to closely monitor our costs and may be required to implement additional restructuring activities if we were to experience a significant economic downturn.
Our long-term strategy includes growth through the integration of acquired businesses, and GAAP requires plant closure and employee termination costs that we incur in connection with our acquisition activities to be recorded as expenses in our consolidated statement of operations, as such expenses are incurred.
We have not incurred any material plant closure or employee termination costs related to any of the businesses acquired since 2011, but we expect to have some level of future restructuring expenses due to acquisitions.
Foreign Currency Translation 

We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risks, particularly due to transactions in currencies other than the functional currencies of certain subsidiaries.
We occasionally use forward exchange contracts to economically hedge a portion of these exposures.
GAAP requires that we identify the "functional currency" of each of our subsidiaries and measure all elements of the financial statements in that functional currency.
A subsidiary's functional currency is the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates.
In cases where a subsidiary is relatively self-contained within a particular country, the local currency is generally deemed to be the functional currency.
However, a foreign subsidiary that is a direct and integral component or extension of the parent company's operations generally would have the parent company's currency as its functional currency.
We have both situations among our subsidiaries.
Foreign Subsidiaries which use the Local Currency as the Functional Currency 

We finance our operations in Europe and certain locations in Asia in local currencies, and accordingly, these subsidiaries utilize the local currency as their functional currency.
For those subsidiaries where the local currency is the functional currency, assets and liabilities in the consolidated condensed balance sheets have been translated at the rate of exchange as of the balance sheet date.
Translation adjustments do not impact the results of operations and are reported as a separate component of stockholders' equity.
For those subsidiaries where the local currency is the functional currency, revenues and expenses incurred in the local currency are translated at the average exchange rate for the year.
While the translation of revenues and expenses incurred in the local currency into U.S. dollars does not directly impact the statements of operations, the translation effectively increases or decreases the U.S. dollar equivalent of revenues generated and expenses incurred in those foreign currencies.
The dollar generally was weaker during the first fiscal quarter of 2018 compared to the prior quarter and prior year quarter, with the translation of foreign currency revenues and expenses into U.S. dollars increasing reported revenues and expenses versus the prior quarter and prior year quarter.
Foreign Subsidiaries which use the U.S. Dollar as the Functional Currency 

Our operations in Israel and most significant locations in Asia are largely financed in U.S. dollars, and accordingly, these subsidiaries utilize the U.S. dollar as their functional currency.
For those foreign subsidiaries where the U.S. dollar is the functional currency, all foreign currency financial statement amounts are remeasured into U.S. dollars.
Exchange gains and losses arising from remeasurement of foreign currency-denominated monetary assets and liabilities are included in the results of operations.
While these subsidiaries transact most business in U.S. dollars, they may have significant costs, particularly payroll-related, which are incurred in the local currency.
The cost of products sold and selling, general, and administrative expense for the first fiscal quarter of 2018 have been unfavorably impacted (compared to the prior quarter and prior year quarter) by local currency transactions of subsidiaries which use the U.S. dollar as their functional currency.
We enter into forward contracts with highly-rated financial institutions to mitigate the foreign currency risk associated with intercompany loans denominated in a currency other than the legal entity's functional currency.
The notional amount of the forward contracts was $100.0 million as of March 31, 2018.
The forward contracts are short-term in nature and are expected to be renewed at our discretion until the intercompany loans are repaid.
The forward contracts are carried at fair value in our consolidated condensed balance sheets.
We have not designated the forward contracts as hedges for accounting purposes, and as such the change in the fair value of the contracts is recognized in our consolidated condensed statements of operations as a component of other income (expense).
We do not utilize derivatives or other financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes.
Results of Operations 




Net Revenues 








We experienced a substantial, broad-based increase in demand for our products beginning in the first fiscal quarter of 2017 that continued through the first fiscal quarter of 2018, which resulted in increased net revenues compared to the prior fiscal quarter and first fiscal quarter of 2017.
Gross Profit Margins 

Gross profit margins for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2018 were 28.6%, versus 26.3% and 26.7%, for the comparable prior quarter and prior year period, respectively.
The increase is due primarily to increased sales volume.
We were able to offset the negative impacts of inflation and average selling price decline by cost reductions and innovation, and maintain our contributive margin.
Segments 

Analysis of revenues and gross profit margins for our segments is provided below.
MOSFETs 








In the first fiscal quarter of 2018, the MOSFETs segment experienced significant growth in net revenues versus the prior year quarter and moderate growth versus the prior quarter.
All regions and sales channels contributed to the significant increase versus the prior year quarter with Americas and European distributors experiencing above average growth.
Our IC products business contributed strongly to the increase in Asia.
The moderate increase versus the prior quarter was primarily due to significant growth in Europe.
Gross profit margin increased versus the prior year quarter due to the significant increase in net revenues, a more profitable product mix, and the impact of the cost reduction program, which were partially offset by declining average selling prices and cost inflation.
Gross profit margin decreased versus the prior quarter despite the increase in net revenues due to increased materials costs, particularly silicon, a reduction of inventory, and foreign currency impacts, particularly in China.
Due to the continuing positive business climate in the first fiscal quarter of 2018, the reduction in the pricing pressure from last year continued for our established MOSFETs products.
Price increases for select products and ongoing price reductions for other products resulted in a slight increase of average selling prices versus the prior quarter and a slight decline versus the prior year quarter.
We recently completed major cost reduction activities, which had been ongoing since 2013, to improve the operating results of the MOSFETs segment.
See Note 4 to our consolidated condensed financial statements included in Item 1.
Diodes 








The Diodes segment achieved significant growth in net revenues in the first fiscal quarter of 2018 versus the prior year quarter and moderate growth versus the prior quarter.
The increase versus the prior year quarter was achieved in all regions, particularly Europe, which benefited from the strengthening of the euro.
The increase versus the prior quarter was mainly in the Europe and Americas regions, which was partially offset by a decline in Asia.
The stronger euro also contributed to the growth.
While gross profit increased generally in line with the increased volume, the gross profit margin slightly decreased versus the prior quarter and prior year quarter.
Increasing materials prices and other general cost inflation were partially offset by increases in net revenues and the impact of our cost reduction efforts.
Costs were negatively impacted by foreign currencies, particularly in China, which exceeded the positive impact of the stronger euro.
The positive business climate mostly eliminated the pricing pressure for our established Diodes products.
The slight increases in average selling prices is primarily due to a more favorable customer mix.
Optoelectronic Components 








In the first fiscal quarter of 2018, the Optoelectronic Components segment experienced a moderate increase in net revenues versus the prior quarter and a significant increase versus the prior year quarter.
The increase versus the prior quarter was primarily achieved with distribution customers in all regions and European end customers, partially offset by decreases with Asian and American end customers.
The increase versus the prior year quarter is primarily due to a stronger euro and increases with distribution customers in Americas and Europe and end customers in Europe, partially offset by decreases with distribution customers in Asia and Asian and American end customers.
The gross profit margin increased versus the prior quarter and prior year quarter.
The increase versus the prior year quarter is primarily due to increased net revenues, the currency impacts of a stronger euro, which impacted revenues more than expenses, and increased efficiencies.
The increase versus the prior quarter is primarily due to increased net revenues, the positive impact of an inventory increase, increased efficiencies, as well as cost reduction measures that exceeded the impacts of cost inflation and lower average selling prices.
The pricing pressure for our established Optoelectronic Components products was slightly reduced versus prior years, but continues.
We experienced a slight decline in average selling prices versus the prior quarter and prior year quarter.
The gross profit margin improved versus the prior quarter and the prior year quarter.
The increased net revenues, favorable foreign currency impacts, cost reduction, and volume efficiencies are the main contributors to the improvement.
Average selling prices decreased slightly versus the prior quarter and prior year quarter, consistent with our historical experience.
Market demand currently exceeds our capacity for certain product lines.
Capital spending projects to expand capacity are underway to meet the increased demand.
Capacitors 








Net revenues of the Capacitors segment for the first fiscal quarter of 2018 increased significantly versus the prior year quarter and slightly versus the prior quarter.
The Europe region contributed most to the growth in net revenues versus the prior year quarter, while revenues for the Asia and Americas regions remained relatively constant.
The industrial and automotive end markets were main contributors to the sales growth versus the prior year quarter.
The gross profit margin in the first fiscal quarter of 2018 increased versus the prior quarter and the prior year quarter.
The increase versus the prior quarter is primarily due to a more favorable product mix and manufacturing efficiencies.
The increase versus the prior year quarter is primarily due to increased net revenues and manufacturing efficiencies.
Due to the continuing positive business climate in the first fiscal quarter of 2018, average selling prices increased slightly versus the prior quarter and decreased slightly versus the prior year quarter.
Selling, General, and Administrative Expenses 







Certain intangible assets became fully amortized in the second fiscal quarter of 2017.
Other Income (Expense) 

Interest expense for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2018 increased by $0.6 million and $0.9 million versus the fiscal quarters ended December 31, 2017 and April 1, 2017, respectively.
The increases are primarily due to higher average outstanding balances and higher interest rates on our revolving credit facility and increases in the estimated values of the embedded derivatives associated with our convertible debentures.
We now classify pension costs other than the current service component within other income (expense).
These amounts were previously reported as cost of goods sold and selling, general, and administrative expenses.
Prior periods have been recast due to the adoption of ASU 2017-07 on January 1, 2018.
See Note 1 to our consolidated condensed financial statements included in Item 1.
In 2017, we sold our 50% interest in an investment accounted for using the equity method, and recorded a loss aggregating to $6.1 million.
The loss recorded in March 2017 included our proportionate share of the investee's accumulated other comprehensive loss of $1.1 million, recognized upon discontinuation of the equity investment, and the estimated cost of certain contingencies pending resolution related to the investee.
In December 2017, the contingencies were favorably settled and we reduced the loss by $0.9 million.
The loss on disposal is not deductible for income tax purposes.
†Recognized in "Other" subsequent to the prospective adoption of ASU 2016-01.
Previously recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income until realized.
See Note 1 to our consolidated condensed financial statements included in Item 1.
†Recognized in "Other" subsequent to the prospective adoption of ASU 2016-01.
Previously recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income until realized.
See Note 1 to our consolidated condensed financial statements included in Item 1.
Income Taxes 

For the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2018, our effective tax rate was 32.0%, as compared to 364.8% and 26.7% for the fiscal quarters ended December 31, 2017 and April 1, 2017, respectively.
Historically, the effective tax rates were generally less than the pre-2018 U.S. statutory rate primarily because of earnings in foreign jurisdictions.
With the reduction in the U.S. statutory rate to 21% beginning January 1, 2018, we expect that our effective tax rate will now be higher than the U.S. statutory rate.
The effective tax rate for the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2017 is higher than the U.S. statutory rate, primarily due to certain discrete items recorded in the period.
During the first fiscal quarter of 2018, we recorded additional tax expense of $1.3 million due to the remeasurement of the deferred tax liability related to our cash repatriation program, primarily due to foreign currency effects.
These types of remeasurement adjustments will continue until the amounts are repatriated.
We operate in a global environment with significant operations in various locations outside the United States.
Accordingly, the consolidated income tax rate is a composite rate reflecting our earnings and the applicable tax rates in the various locations where we operate.
Part of our historical strategy has been to achieve cost savings through the transfer and expansion of manufacturing operations to countries where we can take advantage of lower labor costs and available tax and other government-sponsored incentives.
Accordingly, our effective tax rate has historically been less than the U.S. statutory rate, except in years where there are material discrete items.
The TCJA significantly reduces the U.S. statutory tax rate, to a rate that is less than the applicable tax rates of many of the jurisdictions in which we operate.
Furthermore, our GAAP interest expense generally exceeds our U.S.-based operating income, resulting in pre-tax losses in the U.S. We have historically recorded U.S. federal tax benefits, at 35%, which had the effect of reducing our consolidated GAAP tax rate.
Accordingly, the reduction in the statutory U.S. tax rate generally has the effect of increasing our consolidated GAAP tax rate due to the lower tax benefits recognized on a GAAP basis.
Our consolidated GAAP tax rate is negatively impacted by other provisions of the TCJA, including GILTI and the limitation on the deductibility of interest expense.
During the three fiscal months ended March 31, 2018, the liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits increased by $0.6 million on a net basis, due to increases for tax positions taken in the current period, interest, and foreign currency effects.
Additional information about income taxes is included in Note 5 to our consolidated condensed financial statements included in Item 1.
Financial Condition, Liquidity, and Capital Resources 

We focus on our ability to generate cash flows from operations.
The cash generated from operations is used to fund our capital expenditure plans, and cash in excess of our capital expenditure needs is available to fund our acquisition strategy, to reduce debt levels, and to pay dividends and repurchase stock.
We have generated cash flows from operations in excess of $200 million in each of the past 16 years, and cash flows from operations in excess of $100 million in each of the past 23 years.
Management uses a non-GAAP measure, "free cash," to evaluate our ability to fund acquisitions, repay debt, and otherwise enhance stockholder value through stock repurchases or dividends.
See "Overview" above for "free cash" definition and reconciliation to GAAP.
Vishay has generated positive "free cash" in each of the past 21 years, and "free cash" in excess of $80 million in each of the past 16 years.
In this volatile economic environment, we continue to focus on the generation of free cash, including an emphasis on cost controls.
We continued to generate positive cash flows from operations and free cash during the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2018.
We expect to generate free cash in 2018 in line with our history.
There is no assurance, however, that we will be able to continue to generate cash flows from operations and free cash at the same levels, or at all, going forward if the current economic environment worsens.
The payment of any cash taxes associated with the TCJA transition tax and related foreign taxes on repatriated cash will generally be recorded as operating cash flows.
We maintain a revolving credit facility, first entered into in 2010, which was amended and restated on August 8, 2013, and further amended and restated on December 10, 2015.
The credit facility provides an aggregate commitment of $640 million of revolving loans available until December 10, 2020, and we have the ability to request up to $50 million of incremental revolving commitments, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions.
At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, $184 million and $150 million, respectively, were outstanding under our credit facility.
The credit facility allows an unlimited amount of defined "Restricted Payments," which include cash dividends to stockholders and share repurchases, provided our pro forma leverage ratio is less than 2.25 to 1.
If our leverage ratio is greater than 2.25 to 1, the credit facility allows such payments up to $75 million per annum (subject to a cap of $225 million for the term of the facility).
The credit facility provides us with significantly more flexibility to execute these transactions, and our ability to utilize some of our foreign-source income for these types of transactions provides even further financial flexibility.
Borrowings under the credit facility bear interest at LIBOR plus an interest margin.
The applicable interest margin is based on our leverage ratio.
Based on our leverage ratio for the first fiscal quarter of 2018, borrowings bore interest at LIBOR plus 1.75%.
The interest rate on our borrowings will increase to LIBOR plus 2.00% if our leverage ratio equals or exceeds 2.50 to 1 and will decrease to LIBOR plus 1.50% if our leverage ratio decreases below 1.50 to 1.
Based on our leverage ratio as of the end of the first fiscal quarter of 2018, new borrowings will bear interest at LIBOR plus 1.50%.
We also pay a fee, also based on our leverage ratio, on undrawn amounts.
The undrawn commitment fee, based on our leverage ratio for the first fiscal quarter of 2018, was 0.35% per annum.
Such undrawn commitment fee will increase to 0.50% per annum if our leverage ratio equals or exceeds 2.50 to 1 and will decrease to 0.30% per annum if our leverage ratio decreases below 1.50 to 1.
Based on our leverage ratio as of the end of the first fiscal quarter of 2018, our undrawn commitment fee will be 0.30% per annum.
The borrowings under the credit facility are secured by a lien on substantially all assets, including accounts receivable, inventory, machinery and equipment, and general intangibles (but excluding real estate, intellectual property registered or licensed for use in, or arising under the laws of, any country other than the United States, assets located outside of the United States and deposit and securities accounts), of Vishay and certain significant subsidiaries located in the United States, and pledges of stock in certain significant domestic and foreign subsidiaries; and are guaranteed by certain significant subsidiaries.
Certain of our subsidiaries are permitted to borrow under the credit facility, subject to the satisfaction of specified conditions.
Any borrowings by these subsidiaries under the credit facility will be guaranteed by Vishay and certain subsidiaries.
The credit facility also limits or restricts us, from, among other things, incurring indebtedness, incurring liens on assets, making investments and acquisitions, and making asset sales, and making other restricted payments (assuming our leverage ratio is greater than 2.25 to 1), and requires us to comply with other covenants, including the maintenance of specific financial ratios.
The financial maintenance covenants include (a) an interest expense coverage ratio of not less than 2.00 to 1; and (b) a leverage ratio of not more than 3.25 to 1 (and a pro forma ratio of 2.75 to 1 on the date of incurrence of additional debt).
The computation of these ratios is prescribed in Article VI of the Credit Agreement between Vishay Intertechnology, Inc. and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., which has been filed with the SEC as Exhibit 10.1 to our current report on Form 8-K filed December 10, 2015.
We were in compliance with all financial covenants under the credit facility at March 31, 2018.
Our interest expense coverage ratio and leverage ratio were 15.70 to 1 and 1.46 to 1, respectively.
We expect to continue to be in compliance with these covenants based on current projections.
If we are not in compliance with all of the required financial covenants, the credit facility could be terminated by the lenders, and all amounts outstanding pursuant to the credit facility could become immediately payable.
Additionally, our convertible senior debentures due 2040, due 2041, and due 2042 have cross-default provisions that could accelerate repayment in the event the indebtedness under the credit facility is accelerated.
The balance of our revolving credit facility was $150 million at December 31, 2017.
We borrowed $147 million and repaid $113 million on our credit facility during the three fiscal months ended March 31, 2018.
The average outstanding balance on our credit facility calculated at fiscal month-ends was $238 million and the highest amount outstanding on our credit facility at a month end was $279 million during the three fiscal months ended March 31, 2018.
Prior to three months before the maturity date, our convertible senior debentures are convertible by the holders under certain circumstances.
The convertible debentures due 2042 became convertible subsequent to the December 31, 2016 evaluation of the conversion criteria, and have remained convertible for each subsequent quarterly evaluation through the March 31, 2018 evaluation, due to the sale price of our common stock exceeding 130% of the conversion price for the applicable periods.
The convertible debentures due 2040 became convertible subsequent to the September 30, 2017 evaluation of the conversion criteria, and have remained convertible for each subsequent quarterly evaluation through the March 31, 2018 evaluation, due to the sale price of our common stock exceeding 130% of the conversion price for the applicable periods.
Such debentures will remain convertible until June 30, 2018, at which time the conversion criteria will be reevaluated.
At the direction of our Board of Directors, we intend, upon conversion, to repay the principal amount of the convertible debentures in cash and settle any additional amounts in shares of our common stock.
We intend to finance the principal amount of any converted debentures using borrowings under our credit facility.
Accordingly, the debt component of the convertible debentures due 2040 and due 2042 continues to be classified as a noncurrent liability on the consolidated condensed balance sheets.
No conversions have occurred to date.
The convertible debentures due 2041 are not currently convertible.
As of March 31, 2018, substantially all of our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments were held in countries outside of the United States.
These previously deferred foreign earnings may now be repatriated to the United States without additional U.S. federal taxation.
However, any such repatriation could incur withholding and other foreign taxes in the source jurisdiction, and certain U.S. state taxes.
Additionally, cash dividends to stockholders, share repurchases, and principal and interest payments on our debt instruments need to be paid by the U.S. parent company, Vishay Intertechnology, Inc. Our U.S. subsidiaries have other operating cash needs.
Our substantially undrawn credit facility provides us with significant operating liquidity in the United States.
Management expects to periodically pay down the balance of our revolving credit facility with available cash or use the credit facility to meet short-term financing needs.
We expect that cash on-hand and cash flows from operations will be sufficient to meet our longer-term financing needs related to normal operating requirements, regular dividend payments, and our research and development and capital expenditure plans.
Additional acquisition activity, share repurchases, or conversion of our convertible debentures may require additional borrowing under our credit facility or may otherwise require us to incur additional debt.
No principal payments on our debt are due before the maturity of our revolving credit facility in December 2020.
As described above, we plan to repatriate cash to the U.S. to satisfy the TCJA transition tax, which is payable in increments over eight years.
We invest a portion of our excess cash in highly liquid, high-quality instruments with maturities greater than 90 days, but less than 1 year, which we classify as short-term investments on our consolidated balance sheets.
As these investments were funded using a portion of excess cash and represent a significant aspect of our cash management strategy, we include the investments in the calculation of net cash and short-term investments (debt).
The interest rates on our short-term investments vary by location, but can be up to 150 bps higher than the interest rates on our cash accounts.
The average interest rate on our short-term investments was 0.7% due to the low interest rate environment in Europe.
Transactions related to these investments are classified as investing activities on our consolidated condensed statements of cash flows.
"Net cash and short-term investments (debt)" does not have a uniform definition and is not recognized in accordance with GAAP.
This measure should not be viewed as an alternative to GAAP measures of performance or liquidity.
However, management believes that an analysis of "net cash and short-term investments (debt)" assists investors in understanding aspects of our cash and debt management.
The measure, as calculated by us, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.
Our financial condition as of March 31, 2018 continued to be strong, with a current ratio (current assets to current liabilities) of 4.3 to 1, as compared to 3.9 to 1 as of December 31, 2017.
The increase in the ratio is primarily due to increases in accounts receivable, inventory, cash and cash equivalents, and short-term investments and a decrease in trade accounts payable.
Our ratio of total debt to Vishay stockholders' equity was 0.27 to 1 at March 31, 2018, as compared to 0.26 at December 31, 2017.
The increase in the ratio is primarily due to increases in long-term debt.
Cash flows provided by operating activities were $46.9 million for the three fiscal months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to cash flows provided by operations of $43.7 million for the three fiscal months ended April 1, 2017.
The improvement in operating cash flows reflects an increase in net earnings, partially offset by larger increases in net working capital.
Cash flows provided by operating activities for the three fiscal months ended April 1, 2017 were negatively impacted by $4.4 million of cash contributions to our Taiwanese pension plans.
Cash paid for property and equipment for the three fiscal months ended March 31, 2018 was $28.3 million, as compared to $16.7 million for the three fiscal months ended April 1, 2017.
We expect capital spending of approximately $225 million in 2018.
The increase versus prior expectations is due to foreign currency exchange rate impacts and some customer specific requirements.
Some of this 2018 capital spending represents an acceleration of expected expansion from later years of our long-range plan.
Cash paid for dividends to our common and Class B common stockholders totalled $9.7 million and $9.1 million for the three fiscal months ended March 31, 2018 and April 1, 2017, respectively.
On May 7, 2018, our Board of Directors declared a dividend of $0.085 per share, representing a 26% increase over the previous quarterly dividend.
We expect dividend payments in 2018 to total approximately $46.5 million.
However, any future dividend declaration and payment remains subject to authorization by our Board of Directors.
On August 2, 2017, our Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase plan, authorizing us to repurchase, in the aggregate, up to $150 million of our outstanding common stock.
The stock repurchase plan will expire on June 1, 2018.
The stock repurchase plan does not obligate us to acquire any particular amount of common stock, and it may be terminated or suspended at any time at the Company's direction in accordance with the plan.
We repurchased 2,250,236 shares of stock for $39.9 million since the inception of this plan.
We did not repurchase any shares of stock in the first fiscal quarter of 2018.
Contractual Commitments and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 

Our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 filed on February 16, 2018, includes a table of contractual commitments.
There were no material changes to these commitments since the filing of our Annual Report on Form 10-K other than a $14.4 million increase to the non-current portion of the U.S. transition tax payable due to a reclassification from current liabilities based on guidance from the United States Internal Revenue Service on quarterly estimated payments on the transition tax.
We do not participate in nor have we created any off-balance sheet variable interest entities or other off-balance sheet financing, other than the operating leases described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Dividends 

In 2014, our Board of Directors approved the initiation of a quarterly cash dividend program.
Cash dividends of $0.0625 per share of common stock and Class B common stock were paid in the first three fiscal quarters of 2017.
The quarterly cash dividend was increased to $0.0675 per share of common stock and Class B common stock in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2017.
The quarterly cash dividend was increased to $0.085 per share of common stock and Class B common stock in the second fiscal quarter of 2018.
We expect to continue to pay quarterly dividends, although each dividend is subject to approval by our Board of Directors.
Safe Harbor Statement 

From time to time, information provided by us, including but not limited to statements in this report, or other statements made by or on our behalf, may contain "forward-looking" information within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Words such as "believe," "estimate," "will be," "will," "would," "expect," "anticipate," "plan," "project," "intend," "could," "should," or other similar words or expressions often identify forward-looking statements.
Such statements are based on current expectations only, and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, many of which are beyond our control.
Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results, performance, or achievements may vary materially from those anticipated, estimated, or projected.
Among the factors that could cause actual results to materially differ include: general business and economic conditions; difficulties in identifying suitable acquisition candidates, consummating a transaction on terms which we consider acceptable, and integration and performance of acquired businesses; difficulties in new product development; changes in competition and technology in the markets that we serve and the mix of our products required to address these changes; an inability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel, particularly in respect of our acquired businesses; uncertainty related to the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates; delays or difficulties in implementing our cost management strategies; and other factors affecting our operations, markets, capacity to meet demand, products, services, and prices that are set forth in our filings with the SEC, including our annual reports on Form 10-K and our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.
We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K listed various important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from projected and historic results.
We note these factors for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Readers can find them in Part I, Item 1A, of that filing under the heading "Risk Factors."
You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors.
Consequently, you should not consider any such list to be a complete set of all potential risks or uncertainties.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds     

Not applicable.
