fls.txt



item1.txt
The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of Marvell Technology Group Ltd., a Bermuda exempted company, and its wholly owned subsidiaries (the “Company”), as of and for the three and six months ended August 3, 2019, have been prepared as required by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”) have been condensed or omitted as permitted by the SEC.
These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes should be read in conjunction with the Company's fiscal year 2019 audited financial statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 2, 2019.
In the opinion of management, the financial statements include all adjustments, including normal recurring adjustments and other adjustments, that are considered necessary for fair presentation of the Company’s financial position and results of operations.
These financial statements should also be read in conjunction with the Company’s critical accounting policies included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended February 2, 2019 and those included in this Form 10-Q below.
The Company will pay Aquantia's stockholders $13.25 per share in cash, or approximately $480 million.
On May 20, 2019, the Company announced its intent to acquire Avera Semiconductor (“Avera”), the application specific integrated circuit (“ASIC”) business of GlobalFoundries Inc.
The Company will pay GlobalFoundries $650 million in cash at closing, subject to certain adjustments, plus an additional $90 million in cash if certain business conditions are satisfied within the next 15 months.
On May 29, 2019, the Company announced its intent to sell its Wi-Fi connectivity business to NXP for $1.76 billion in cash.
The business employs approximately 550 people worldwide and generated approximately $300 million in revenue in the Company's fiscal 2019.
As of August 3, 2019, the Company classified assets held for sale of $597.7 million, which consisted of $28.2 million of inventory, $6.1 million of property, plant and equipment, $557.8 million of goodwill and $5.6 million of right-of-use lease asset.
In addition, the Company classified liabilities held for sale of $5.6 million associated with lease liability in the condensed consolidated balance sheet.
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued a new standard on the accounting for leases, which amends the existing guidance to require lessees to recognize assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for the rights and obligation created by long-term leases and to disclose additional quantitative and qualitative information about leasing arrangements.
The Company adopted the new lease accounting standard on February 3, 2019, using the modified retrospective approach by applying the new standard to leases existing at the date of initial application and not restating comparative periods.
In June 2016, the FASB issued a new standard requiring financial assets measured at amortized cost be presented at the net amount expected to be collected, through an allowance for credit losses that is deducted from the amortized cost basis.


item2.txt
In the second quarter of fiscal 2020, our net revenue decreased year over year by 1% from $665.3 million net revenue in the second quarter fiscal 2019 compared with $656.6 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2020.
Our net revenue for the six months ended August 3, 2019 increased by $49.1 million compared to net revenue for the six months ended August 4, 2018.
The growth was partially offset by decreased sales of our storage products, which decreased by 15% in relation to the six months ended August 4, 2018.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Many of these risks and uncertainties are beyond our control, including business cycles and seasonal trends of the computing, infrastructure, semiconductor and related industries and end markets.
•changes in general economic conditions, such as the impact of Brexit on the economy in the E.U., political conditions, such as the recent tariffs and trade bans, and specific conditions in the end markets we address, including the continuing volatility in the technology sector and semiconductor industry;
•failure of our customers to agree to pay for NRE (non-recurring engineering) costs or failure to pay enough to cover the costs we incur in connection with NREs. Accordingly, you may not be able to resell your common shares at or above the price you paid.
Our proposed acquisitions of Aquantia and Avera involve a number of risks, including, among others, those associated with our use of a significant portion of our cash or our taking on significant indebtedness and other financial risks and integration risks.
Our use of cash in the Cavium acquisition and proposed use of cash in the Other Acquisitions would reduce our liquidity and may (i) limit our flexibility in responding to other business opportunities and (ii) increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions.
To the extent we are attempting to integrate multiple businesses such as the Other Acquisitions and to separate technology in connection with the NXP divestiture at the same time, we may not be able to do so as efficiently or effectively as we would prefer.
In connection with the integration of the Avera acquisition we may be required to obtain a U.S. government security clearance before we can market and sell our products to certain customers.
Delays in obtaining the clearance may harm our financial condition and could result in us receiving less revenue in connection with this transaction than we anticipate.
Adverse changes in the political and economic policies of the U.S. government in connection with trade with China could reduce the demand for our products and damage our business.
If regulatory activity, such as enforcement of U.S. export control and sanctions laws, or the imposition of new tariffs, were to materially limit our ability to make sales to any of our significant customers in China, it could harm our results of operations, reputation and financial condition.


