fls.txt



item1.txt
The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of Marvell Technology Group Ltd., a Bermuda exempted company, and its wholly owned subsidiaries (the “Company”), as of and for the three and nine months ended November 2, 2019, have been prepared as required by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”) have been condensed or omitted as permitted by the SEC.
These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes should be read in conjunction with the Company's fiscal year 2019 audited financial statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 2, 2019.
In the opinion of management, the financial statements include all adjustments, including normal recurring adjustments and other adjustments, that are considered necessary for fair presentation of the Company’s financial position and results of operations.
Operating results for the periods presented herein are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the entire year.
These financial statements should also be read in conjunction with the Company’s critical accounting policies included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended February 2, 2019 and those included in this Form 10-Q below.
On May 29, 2019, the Company announced its intent to sell its Wi-Fi connectivity business to NXP for $1.76 billion in cash.
The divestiture encompasses the Company's Wi-Fi and bluetooth technology portfolios and related assets.
The business employs approximately 550 people worldwide and generated approximately $300 million in revenue in the Company's fiscal 2019.
As of November 2, 2019, the Company classified assets held for sale of $600.9 million, which consisted of $30.1 million of inventory, $7.3 million of property, plant and equipment, $557.8 million of goodwill and $5.6 million of right-of-use lease asset.
In addition, the Company classified liabilities held for sale of $5.6 million associated with lease and other liabilities in the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheet.
The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the operating results of Aquantia for the period from the date of acquisition to the Company’s third quarter ended November 2, 2019.
Subsequent to quarter end, on November 5, 2019, the Company acquired Avera Semiconductor (“Avera”), the Application Specific Integrated Circuit (“ASIC”) business of GlobalFoundries (“GlobalFoundries”) for $597.5 million in cash at closing.
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued a new standard on the accounting for leases, which amends the existing guidance to require lessees to recognize assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for the rights and obligation created by long-term leases and to disclose additional quantitative and qualitative information about leasing arrangements.
The Company adopted the new lease accounting standard on February 3, 2019, using the modified retrospective approach by applying the new standard to leases existing at the date of initial application and not restating comparative periods.


item2.txt
Our net revenue for the nine months ended November 2, 2019 decreased by $139.5 million compared to net revenue for the nine months ended November 3, 2018.
Subsequent to quarter end, on November 5, 2019, we acquired Avera Semiconductor (“Avera”), the Application Specific Integrated Circuit (“ASIC”) business of GlobalFoundries (“GlobalFoundries”) for $597.5 million in cash at closing.
An additional $90 million in cash will be paid if certain conditions are satisfied within the next 15 months.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
•changes in general economic conditions, such as the impact of Brexit on the economy in the E.U., political conditions, such as the recent tariffs and trade bans, and specific conditions in the end markets we address, including the continuing volatility in the technology sector and semiconductor industry;
In particular, over time, we may acquire, make investments in, or merge with providers of product offerings that complement our business or may terminate such activities.
In addition, we have entered into an asset purchase agreement with NXP USA, Inc. dated May 29, 2019 pursuant to which we agreed to sell to NXP certain assets related to our wireless business for $1.76 billion in cash at closing, subject to working capital and other customary adjustments that will be determined at close.
Any acquired business, technology, service or product could significantly under-perform relative to our expectations and may not achieve the benefits we expect from possible acquisitions.
Our acquisitions of Aquantia and Avera involve a number of risks, including, among others, those associated with our use of a significant portion of our cash or our taking on significant indebtedness and other financial risks and integration risks.
Our use of cash in the Acquisitions reduced our liquidity and may (i) limit our flexibility in responding to other business opportunities and (ii) increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions.
Adverse changes in the political and economic policies of the U.S. government in connection with trade with China have reduced the demand for our products and damaged our business.
Regulatory activity, such as enforcement of U.S. export control and sanctions laws, and the imposition of new tariffs, have in the past and may continue to materially limit our ability to make sales to our significant customers in China, which has in the past and may continue to harm our results of operations, reputation and financial condition.
For example, the recent US government export restrictions on a number of Chinese customers, such as Huawei Technologies Co. Ltd., and others have dampened demand for our products, adding to the already challenging macroeconomic environment.
In addition, there may be indirect impacts to our business which we cannot easily quantify such as the fact that some of our other customers' products which use our solutions, such as hard disk drives, may also be impacted by this export restriction.


