fls.txt



item1.txt
The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of Marvell Technology Group Ltd., a Bermuda exempted company, and its wholly owned subsidiaries (the “Company”), as of and for the three months ended May 4, 2019, have been prepared as required by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”) have been condensed or omitted as permitted by the SEC.
These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes should be read in conjunction with the Company's fiscal year 2019 audited financial statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 2, 2019.
In the opinion of management, the financial statements include all adjustments, including normal recurring adjustments and other adjustments, that are considered necessary for fair presentation of the Company’s financial position and results of operations.
Operating results for the periods presented herein are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the entire year.
These financial statements should also be read in conjunction with the Company’s critical accounting policies included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended February 2, 2019 and those included in this Form 10-Q below.
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued a new standard on the accounting for leases, which amends the existing guidance to require lessees to recognize assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for the rights and obligation created by long-term leases and to disclose additional quantitative and qualitative information about leasing arrangements.
The Company adopted the new lease accounting standard on February 3, 2019, using the modified retrospective approach by applying the new standard to leases existing at the date of initial application and not restating comparative periods.
In June 2016, the FASB issued a new standard requiring financial assets measured at amortized cost be presented at the net amount expected to be collected, through an allowance for credit losses that is deducted from the amortized cost basis.
The measurement of expected credit losses is based on historical experience, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts that affect the collectability of the financial assets.
The standard is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021.
The Company does not expect the adoption of this guidance will have a material effect on its consolidated financial statements.
In August 2018, the FASB issued an accounting standards update to align the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a software hosting arrangement that is a service contract and costs to develop or obtain internal-use software.
The guidance is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021, with early adoption permitted.
The Company is evaluating the effect this new guidance will have on its consolidated financial statements.
The guidance is effective for the company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021, with early adoption permitted.


item2.txt
In the first quarter of fiscal 2020, our net revenue increased year over year by 9.6% from $604.6 million net revenue in the first quarter fiscal 2019 compared with $662.5 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2020.
The increase was primarily due to increased sales of our networking products by 40% with sales benefiting from our acquisition of Cavium.
This increase was partially offset by a decrease in our storage product sales and other product sales, which decreased by 12% and 2%, respectively, in relation to the three months ended May 5, 2018.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Many of these risks and uncertainties are beyond our control, including business cycles and seasonal trends of the computing, infrastructure, semiconductor and related industries and end markets.
If any of the possible adverse events described below actually occurs, we may be unable to conduct our business as currently planned and our financial condition and operating results could be harmed.
If we lose or experience a significant reduction in sales to any of these key customers, if any of these key customers experience a significant decline in market share, or if any of these customers experience significant financial difficulties, our revenue may decrease substantially and our results of operations and financial condition may be harmed.
We receive a significant amount of our revenue from a limited number of customers.
Sales to our largest customers have fluctuated significantly from period to period and year to year and will likely continue to fluctuate in the future, primarily due to the timing and number of design wins with each customer, the continued diversification of our customer base as we expand into new markets, and natural disasters or other issues that may divert a customer’s operations.
The loss of any of our large customers or a significant reduction in sales we make to them would likely harm our financial condition and results of operations.
To the extent one or more of our large customers experience significant financial difficulty, bankruptcy or insolvency, this could have a material adverse effect on our sales and our ability to collect on receivables, which could harm our financial condition and results of operations.
•customers may consolidate (for example, Western Digital acquired SanDisk in 2017, and Toshiba Corporation sold control of a portion of its semiconductor business in 2018), which could lead to changing demand for our products, replacement of our products by the merged entity with those of our competitors and cancellation of orders.
In addition, if regulatory activity, such as enforcement of U.S. export control and sanctions laws, or the imposition of new tariffs, were to materially limit our ability to make sales to any of our significant customers, it could harm our results of operations, reputation and financial condition.
In addition, there may be indirect impacts to our business which we cannot easily quantify such as the fact that some of our other customer’s products which use our solutions, such as hard disk drives, may also be impacted by this export restriction.


