fls.txt



item1.txt
GAAP”) have been condensed or omitted as permitted by the SEC.
These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes should be read in conjunction with the Company's fiscal year 2019 audited financial statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 2, 2019.
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation.
Accordingly, every fifth or sixth fiscal year will have a 53-week period.
The additional week in a 53-week year is added to the fourth quarter, making such quarter consist of 14 weeks.
Fiscal 2019 had a 52-week year.
Fiscal 2020 is a 52-week year.
On May 29, 2019, the Company announced its intent to sell its Wi-Fi connectivity business to NXP for $1.76 billion in cash.
This transaction is expected to close in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020.
On September 19, 2019, the Company completed its acquisition of Aquantia Corp. (“Aquantia”).
The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the operating results of Aquantia for the period from the date of acquisition to the Company’s third quarter ended November 2, 2019.
See “Note 4 - Business Combinations” for more information.
Subsequent to quarter end, on November 5, 2019, the Company acquired Avera Semiconductor (“Avera”), the Application Specific Integrated Circuit (“ASIC”) business of GlobalFoundries (“GlobalFoundries”) for $597.5 million in cash at closing.
An additional $90 million in cash will be paid if certain conditions are satisfied within the next 15 months.
Avera is a leading provider of Application Specific Integrated Circuit (ASIC) semiconductor solutions.


item2.txt
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), which are subject to the “safe harbor” created by those sections.
Unless required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
Leveraging leading intellectual property and deep system-level expertise as well as highly innovative security firmware, our solutions are empowering the data economy and enabling communications across 5G, cloud, automotive, industrial and artificial intelligence applications.


item3.txt
Interest Rate Risk.


item4.txt



part2.txt
The information under the caption “Contingencies” as set forth in “Note 10 – Commitments and Contingencies” of our Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Part I, Item 1, is incorporated herein by reference.
For additional discussion of certain risks associated with legal proceedings, see Part II, Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” immediately below.
Investing in our common shares involves a high degree of risk.
Many of these risks and uncertainties are beyond our control, including business cycles and seasonal trends of the computing, infrastructure, semiconductor and related industries and end markets.
In addition, the trading price of our common shares could decline due to the occurrence of any of these risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment.
Our stock is traded on the Nasdaq stock exchange under the ticker symbol “MRVL”.
Our long-term strategy may include identifying and acquiring, investing in or merging with suitable candidates on acceptable terms, or divesting of certain business lines or activities.
An additional $90 million in cash will be payable if certain business conditions are satisfied by the third quarter of our fiscal 2021.
•unavailability of acquisition financing on reasonable terms or at all.
Failure to complete a pending transaction may result in negative publicity and a negative perception of us in the investment community.


