fls.txt



item1.txt
The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of Marvell Technology Group Ltd., a Bermuda exempted company, and its wholly owned subsidiaries (the “Company”), as of and for the three months ended May 5, 2018, have been prepared as required by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).
GAAP”) have been condensed or omitted as permitted by the SEC.
The Company's financial results for prior periods presented herein have been recast to reflect certain businesses that were classified as discontinued operations during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017 and second quarter of fiscal year 2018.
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation.
Accordingly, every fifth or sixth fiscal year will have a 53-week period.
Fiscal 2019 is a 52-week year.
On November 19, 2017, the Company entered into an agreement and plan of merger (the “Merger Agreement”) with Cavium, Inc. (“Cavium”), pursuant to which a subsidiary of the Company will merge with and into Cavium, with Cavium surviving and becoming a wholly-owned indirect subsidiary of the Company (the "Merger").
Cavium is a provider of highly integrated semiconductor processors that enable intelligent processing for wired and wireless infrastructure and cloud for networking, communications, storage and security applications.
This represents a transaction value of approximately $6 billion.
The transaction is not subject to any financing condition.
The Company has recorded $20.1 million of associated deferred debt and equity financing costs on the accompanying consolidated balance sheet as of May 5, 2018.
See "Note 3 - Revenue" for additional information on the impact of the adoption of the new standard on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
The adoption of this guidance did not have a significant impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
The adoption of this guidance did not have an impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
Previous guidance required companies to defer the income tax effects of intra-entity transfers of assets until the asset had been sold to an outside party or otherwise recognized.
The adoption of this guidance did not have an impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.


item2.txt
These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof.
Unless required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
We also develop integrated hardware platforms along with software that incorporates digital computing technologies designed and configured to provide an optimized computing solution.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
The information under the caption “Contingencies” as set forth in “Note 8 – Commitments and Contingencies” of our Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Part I, Item 1, is incorporated herein by reference.
For additional discussion of certain risks associated with legal proceedings, see Part II, Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” immediately below.
Investing in our common shares involves a high degree of risk.
Many of these risks and uncertainties are beyond our control, including business cycles and seasonal trends of the computing, semiconductor and related industries and end markets.
If we agree to any material conditions in order to obtain any approvals required to complete the proposed transaction, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected.
In addition, the use of a significant portion of our cash and the incurrence of substantial indebtedness in connection with the financing of the proposed transaction will reduce our liquidity and may limit our flexibility in responding to other business opportunities and increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions.
The Merger Agreement limits each of Marvell’s and Cavium’s ability to pursue alternative transactions and, in certain instances, requires payment of a termination fee, which could deter a third party from proposing an alternative transaction.
Any delay in completing the Merger may significantly reduce the benefits expected to be obtained from the Merger.
Marvell and Cavium cannot predict whether and when these other conditions will be satisfied.
Marvell, Cavium and members of Cavium’s board of directors have in the past and may in the future be parties, among others, to various claims and litigation related to the Merger Agreement and the Merger, including putative shareholder class actions.


