fls.txt



item1.txt
GAAP”) have been condensed or omitted as permitted by the SEC.
These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes should be read in conjunction with the Company's fiscal year 2019 audited financial statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 2, 2019.
Operating results for the periods presented herein are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the entire year.
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation.
Accordingly, every fifth or sixth fiscal year will have a 53-week period.
The additional week in a 53-week year is added to the fourth quarter, making such quarter consist of 14 weeks.
Fiscal 2019 had a 52-week year.
Fiscal 2020 is a 52-week year.
On May 6, 2019, the Company announced its intent to acquire Aquantia, Corp. (“Aquantia”), a publicly traded company.
The Company will pay Aquantia's stockholders $13.25 per share in cash, or approximately $480 million.
The transaction is expected to close by December 2019, subject to regulatory approval as well as other customary closing conditions.
On July 10, 2019, Aquantia's stockholders approved the merger agreement.
On May 20, 2019, the Company announced its intent to acquire Avera Semiconductor (“Avera”), the application specific integrated circuit (“ASIC”) business of GlobalFoundries Inc. (“GlobalFoundries”).
The Company will pay GlobalFoundries $650 million in cash at closing, subject to certain adjustments, plus an additional $90 million in cash if certain business conditions are satisfied within the next 15 months.
On May 29, 2019, the Company announced its intent to sell its Wi-Fi connectivity business to NXP for $1.76 billion in cash.


item2.txt
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), which are subject to the “safe harbor” created by those sections.
•the outcome of pending or future litigation and legal and regulatory proceedings.
These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
For additional discussion of certain risks associated with legal proceedings, see Part II, Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” immediately below.
Investing in our common shares involves a high degree of risk.
Accordingly, you may not be able to resell your common shares at or above the price you paid.
Our stock is traded on the Nasdaq stock exchange under the ticker symbol “MRVL”.
As a result of stock price volatility, we may be subject to securities class action litigation.
•unavailability of acquisition financing on reasonable terms or at all.
Given that our resources are limited, our decision to pursue a transaction has opportunity costs; accordingly, if we pursue a particular transaction, we may need to forgo the prospect of entering into other transactions that could help us achieve our strategic objectives.
When we decide to sell assets or a business, we may have difficulty selling on acceptable terms in a timely manner or at all.
If we fail to complete a transaction, we may nonetheless have incurred significant expenses in connection with such transaction.
We used a significant portion of our cash and incurred substantial indebtedness in connection with the financing of our acquisition of Cavium (the “Cavium acquisition”).


