fls.txt



item1.txt
The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of Marvell Technology Group Ltd., a Bermuda exempted company, and its wholly owned subsidiaries (the “Company”), as of and for the three months ended May 4, 2019, have been prepared as required by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
GAAP”) have been condensed or omitted as permitted by the SEC.
These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes should be read in conjunction with the Company's fiscal year 2019 audited financial statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 2, 2019.
In the opinion of management, the financial statements include all adjustments, including normal recurring adjustments and other adjustments, that are considered necessary for fair presentation of the Company’s financial position and results of operations.
These financial statements should also be read in conjunction with the Company’s critical accounting policies included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended February 2, 2019 and those included in this Form 10-Q below.
Accordingly, every fifth or sixth fiscal year will have a 53-week period.
Fiscal 2019 had a 52-week year.
Fiscal 2020 is a 52-week year.
The standard eliminates the threshold for initial recognition in current GAAP and reflects an entity’s current estimate of all expected credit losses.
The Company does not expect the adoption of this guidance will have a material effect on its consolidated financial statements.
The Company is evaluating the effect this new guidance will have on its consolidated financial statements.
The Company is evaluating the effect this new guidance will have on its consolidated financial statements.
The guidance must be applied retrospectively as of the date of initial application of the revenue recognition standard.
The Company is evaluating the effect this new guidance will have on its consolidated financial statements.
Adoption of this standard resulted in the recording of net operating lease ROU assets and corresponding operating lease liabilities of $125 million and $149 million, respectively.


item2.txt
Unless required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
Leveraging leading intellectual property and deep system-level expertise as well as highly innovative security firmware, our solutions are empowering the data economy and enabling virtually instantaneous communications across 5G, cloud, automotive, industrial and artificial intelligence applications.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2020, our net revenue increased year over year by 9.6% from $604.6 million net revenue in the first quarter fiscal 2019 compared with $662.5 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2020.


item3.txt
See “Note 8 - Debt” for further information.


item4.txt



part2.txt
For additional discussion of certain risks associated with legal proceedings, see Part II, Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” immediately below.
Investing in our common shares involves a high degree of risk.
Accordingly, you may not be able to resell your common shares at or above the price you paid.
Our stock is traded on the NASDAQ stock exchange under the ticker symbol “MRVL”.
As a result of stock price volatility, we may be subject to securities class action litigation.
Our sales are concentrated in a few large customers.
We receive a significant amount of our revenue from a limited number of customers.
•customers may consolidate (for example, Western Digital acquired SanDisk in 2017, and Toshiba Corporation sold control of a portion of its semiconductor business in 2018), which could lead to changing demand for our products, replacement of our products by the merged entity with those of our competitors and cancellation of orders.
In addition, if regulatory activity, such as enforcement of U.S. export control and sanctions laws, or the imposition of new tariffs, were to materially limit our ability to make sales to any of our significant customers, it could harm our results of operations, reputation and financial condition.
For example, the recent US government export restrictions on a Chinese customer, Huawei Technologies Co. Ltd., has dampened demand for our products, adding to the already challenging macroeconomic environment.


