fls.txt
The Company is under no obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements after the filing of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q to conform such statements to actual results or to changes in its expectations.


item1.txt
This same vendor accounted for 45% of inventory purchases for the six months ended April 30, 2018.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of RF Industries, Ltd. and its divisions and three wholly-owned subsidiaries (collectively, hereinafter the “Company”) have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
On December 3, 2018, the Company granted each of two employees 25,000 incentive stock options.
This ASU requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets related to the rights and obligations created by those leases.
Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents and accounts receivable.
The Company currently leases its corporate headquarters and RF connector and cable assembly manufacturing facilities in San Diego, California.
The Company currently leases its corporate headquarters and RF connector and cable assembly manufacturing facilities in San Diego, California.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
2017-04, Intangibles-Goodwill and Other, which simplifies the accounting for goodwill impairments by eliminating step 2 from the goodwill impairment test.
On March 15, 2019, through C Enterprises, Inc., its newly formed subsidiary, the Company purchased the business and assets of C Enterprises L.P., a California based designer and manufacturer of quality connectivity solutions to telecommunications and data communications distributors.
On March 15, 2019, through C Enterprises, Inc., its newly formed subsidiary, the Company purchased the business and assets of C Enterprises L.P., a California based designer and manufacturer of quality connectivity solutions to telecommunications and data communications distributors.
The results of C Enterprises, Inc.’s operations subsequent to March 15, 2019 have been included in the results of the Custom Cabling Manufacturing and Assembly segment (“Custom Cabling segment”) as well as in the Company’s consolidated statements of operations.


item2.txt
The Company did not own C Enterprises in the 2018 fiscal year.
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Company’s unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes and other financial information appearing elsewhere in this Form 10-Q.
The Company records its allowance for doubtful accounts based upon its assessment of various factors.
On October 31, 2018, the Company sold all of the shares of Comnet Telecom Supply, Inc. (“Comnet”), a wholly-owned subsidiary that was part of the Company’s Custom Cabling segment.
The decrease in the effective income tax rate from period to period was primarily driven by the elimination of the benefit from the domestic production activities deduction and the one-time benefit recorded in the prior year related to the reduction in the Company’s deferred tax liability due to the change in the federal tax rate, both as a result of the Tax Act.
The acquisition was determined not to be material and was accounted for in accordance with the acquisition method of accounting, and the acquired assets and assumed liabilities were recorded by the Company at their estimated fair values in accordance with ASC 805, Business Combinations.
Moreover, neither the Company, nor any other person, assumes responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of the forward-looking statements.
The Company amortizes its intangible assets with definite useful lives over their estimated useful lives and reviews these assets for impairment.
These inputs include the expected term of employee stock options, the expected volatility of the stock price, the risk-free interest rate and expected dividends.
If the Company acquires other businesses in the future for a purchase price payable in whole or in part in cash, its future liquidity and capital resources could be adversely affected.
However, net sales at the Company’s Custom Cabling segment for the second quarter ended April 30, 2019 increased over the first quarter ended January 31, 2019.
On March 15, 2019, the Company acquired the assets and business of C Enterprises, L.P.


item4.txt
Noting to report.


part2.txt
Nothing to report.
There have been no material changes from the risk factors previously disclosed in the above-mentioned periodic report.


