fls.txt
This report contains forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
The Company used the historical method to calculate the expected life of the 2018 and 2017 option grants.
The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and footnotes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended October 31, 2017.
The dividend yield is based upon the historical dividend yield.
No vendor accounted for greater than 10% of inventory purchases for the three months ended January 31, 2017.
These options vest 8,000 on the date of grant and 8,000 shares per year thereafter on each of the next nine anniversaries of December 13, 2017 and expire ten years from date of grant.
See Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Comnet’s current monthly rent expense under the leases is $8,542 per month for these facilities.
Accounts receivable, inventory, property and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets are the only assets identified by segment.
One customer accounted for approximately 36% of the Company’s net sales for the three-month period ended January 31, 2018.
One customer accounted for approximately 36% of the Company’s net sales for the three-month period ended January 31, 2018.
The Company maintains its cash and cash equivalents with high-credit quality financial institutions.
Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents and accounts receivable.
The Company’s current stock incentive plan provides for the granting of qualified and nonqualified options to the Company’s officers, directors and employees.
 (ii)On June 25, 2017, the Comnet Telecom division entered into an amendment to its lease for approximately 15,000 square feet in two suites located in East Brunswick, New Jersey.
Accounts receivable, inventory, property and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets are the only assets identified by segment.


item2.txt
In addition, during the quarter the Company received $0.2 million from the exercise of stock options and paid out $0.2 million in dividends.
Management also believes that based on the Company’s current financial condition, its current backlog of unfulfilled orders and its anticipated future operations, the Company would be able to finance its expansion, if necessary.
The Company assesses property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, which are considered definite-lived assets, for impairment.
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market, with cost determined using the weighted average cost method of accounting.
Through its four manufacturing and production facilities, the Company provides a wide selection of interconnect products and solutions primarily to telecommunications carriers and equipment manufacturers, wireless and network infrastructure carriers and manufacturers, Data Center and Co-location companies, and to various original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) in several market segments.
In addition, during the quarter the Company received $0.2 million from the exercise of stock options and paid out $0.2 million in dividends.
The Company assesses property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, which are considered definite-lived assets, for impairment.
Certain items in inventory may be considered obsolete or excess and, as such, we periodically review our inventories for excess and slow moving items and make provisions as necessary to properly reflect inventory value.
The Tax Act, among other things, lowered the U.S. corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% effective January 1, 2018.
Any changes in the assumed timing and amount of the probability of payment scenarios could impact the fair value.


item4.txt
In designing and evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures, management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide reasonable assurance only of achieving the desired control objectives, and management necessarily is required to apply its judgment in weighting the costs and benefits of possible new or different controls and procedures.
In designing and evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures, management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide reasonable assurance only of achieving the desired control objectives, and management necessarily is required to apply its judgment in weighting the costs and benefits of possible new or different controls and procedures.


part2.txt
Item 2.
Item 2.


