The Company used the historical method to calculate the expected life of the 2018 and 2017 option grants.
Management identifies the Company’s segments based on strategic business units that are, in turn, based along market lines.
On September 5, 2018, the Board of Directors of the Company declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.02 per share to be paid on October 15, 2018 to stockholders of record on September 30, 2018.
The new lease expires in August 2019.
The Company had no unrecognized tax benefits as of July 31, 2018 and October 31, 2017.
Accrued receipts represent purchased inventory for which invoices have not been received.
We will complete our analysis over a one-year measurement period ending December 22, 2018, and any adjustments during this measurement period will be included in net earnings from continuing operations as an adjustment to income tax expense in the reporting period when such adjustments are determined.
For the nine-month period ended July 31, 2017, two customers, a distributor and data center solutions provider accounted for approximately 18% and 13% of the Company’s net sales, respectively.
The Company maintains its cash and cash equivalents with high-credit quality financial institutions.The improvement in gross margins was primarily due to the revenue increase at the Custom Cabling segment which had the effect of spreading certain fixed manufacturing costs over a larger revenue base.
Acquisitions may require the outlay of cash, which may reduce the Company’s liquidity and capital resources while dispositions may increase the Company’s cash position, liquidity and capital resources.
Selling and general as a percentage of sales declined to 17% for the fiscal 2018 nine month period as compared to 25% for the fiscal 2017 nine month period indicating the Company’s increased operational efficiencies.
Selling and general expenses increased by $2.2 million during the fiscal 2018 nine month period to $7.7 million from $5.5 million in the fiscal 2017 nine month period.
This analysis requires significant judgments, including estimation of future cash flows, which is dependent on internal forecasts, estimation of the long-term rate of growth for our business, estimation of the useful life over which cash flows will occur, and determination of our weighted average cost of capital.
Despite this increase in expenses, selling and general expenses as a percentage of sales declined to 15% of sales compared to 23% of sales in the third quarter last year indicating the Company’s increased operational efficiencies.
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market, with cost determined using the weighted average cost method of accounting.
The Company records a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is believed more likely than not to be realized.Item 5.Nothing to report.