fls.txt
This report contains forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
On March 8, 2019, the Board of Directors of the Company declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.02 per share to be paid on April 15, 2019 to stockholders of record on March 31, 2019.
The Company currently leases its corporate headquarters and RF connector and cable assembly manufacturing facilities in San Diego, California.
On February 1, 2019, Cables Unlimited entered into an amendment to this lease to expand the leased space by an additional 5,000 square feet and increasing the monthly rent expense by $3,750, resulting in a total rent expense of $9,375 per month.
The ASU also requires additional qualitative and quantitative disclosures related to the nature, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
Except as discussed above, the accounting policies for segment reporting are the same for the Company as a whole.
As reviewed by the Company’s chief operating decision maker, the Company evaluates the performance of each segment based on income or loss before income taxes.
The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years.
On December 3, 2018, the Company also granted one employee 10,000 incentive stock options.
2017-04, Intangibles-Goodwill and Other, which simplifies the accounting for goodwill impairments by eliminating step 2 from the goodwill impairment test.
Accrued receipts represent purchased inventory for which invoices have not been received.
On February 1, 2019, Cables Unlimited amended its lease with 100 Bellport Avenue, LLC to expand the leased space by an additional 5,000 square feet, resulting in a total rent expense of $9,375 per month.
These reclassifications had no effect on reported consolidated net income.
During the quarter ended January 31, 2019, the Company granted each of its five non-employee directors 6,600 non-qualified stock options.
Certain amounts in the prior period condensed consolidated financial statements and notes have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation of continuing operations and discontinued operations (see Note 2).


item2.txt
For the three months ended January 31, 2019, most of the Company’s revenues were generated from the Custom Cabling segment from the sale of fiber optics cable, copper cabling, custom patch cord assemblies, and wiring harnesses (which accounted for 69% of the Company’s total sales for the three months ended January 31, 2019).
 ·As of January 31, 2019, the Company had $28.6 million in current assets and $3.8 million in current liabilities.
Conversely, the Company may undertake the disposition of a division or product line due to changes in the Company’s business strategy or market conditions.
The Company records its allowance for doubtful accounts based upon its assessment of various factors.
The Company used cash of $2.3 million during the three months ended January 31, 2019 due largely to an increase in sales, which resulted in increased inventory purchases and an increase in outstanding accounts receivables as of quarter-end.
The Company amortizes its intangible assets with definite useful lives over their estimated useful lives and reviews these assets for impairment.
For the fiscal 2019 quarter, income (loss) from continuing operations for the Custom Cabling segment and the RF Connector segment was $0.5 million and $0.3 million, respectively, as compared to $0.5 million and ($0.2) million for the comparable first quarter last year.
Conversely, the Company may undertake the disposition of a division or product line due to changes in the Company’s business strategy or market conditions.
These inputs include the expected term of employee stock options, the expected volatility of the stock price, the risk-free interest rate and expected dividends.
118, Income Tax Accounting Implications of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (SAB 118), which allowed us to record provisional amounts during a measurement period not to extend beyond one year of the enactment date.
The total cash outlay related to the purchase of C Enterprises is currently not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s liquidity and capital resources.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Nothing to report.
As required by Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(b), as of the end of the period covered by this report, management, under the supervision and with the participation of our then Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures.


part2.txt
 Item 3.Defaults upon Senior Securities
Nothing to report.


