fls.txt



item1.txt
All such adjustments are considered of a normal recurring nature.
Certain footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP") have been condensed or omitted.
The condensed consolidated financial statements of CPSI include the accounts of TruBridge, LLC ("TruBridge"), Evident, LLC ("Evident"), and Healthland Holding Inc. ("HHI"), all of which are wholly-owned subsidiaries of CPSI.
The accounts of HHI include those of its wholly-owned subsidiaries, Healthland Inc. ("Healthland"), Rycan Technologies, Inc. ("Rycan"), and American HealthTech, Inc. ("AHT").
All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
Effective January 1, 2018, our interface services team, which provides the design, development, implementation, and support services for all interfaces for data exchange from the CPSI applications, was previously considered a part of our product development division and has been integrated with our acute care client service team.
This transition will work to create a consistent, personal, and convenient service experience for our clients characterized by transparent communication with prompt resolution.
These reclassification had no effect on previously reported total sales revenues, operating income, income before taxes or net income.
The standard outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers and supersedes prior revenue recognition guidance.
Rycan implementation fees totaled $1.6 million in 2017, less than 1% of our 2017 revenues.
TruBridge commissions, which are paid up to twelve months in advance, are now capitalized and amortized over the prepayment period.
The balance sheet impact of the prepaid assets was an increase of $3.8 million as of the date of adoption.
In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-15, Classifications of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments, which clarifies cash flow classification for eight specific issues, including debt prepayment or extinguishment costs, contingent consideration payments made after a business combination, proceeds from the settlement of insurance claims, and proceeds from settlement of corporate-owned life insurance policies.


item2.txt
Our companies currently support approximately 1,100 acute care facilities and approximately 3,500 post-acute care facilities with a geographically diverse customer mix within the domestic community healthcare market.
Our Post-acute Care EHR segment consists of post-acute care software solutions and support sales generated by AHT.
January 2016 marked an important milestone for CPSI, as we announced the completion of our acquisition of Healthland Holding Inc. ("HHI"), the first major acquisition in the Company's history.
opportunities now available within the combined company.
The provision of these services typically requires fewer resources than the initial system installation, resulting in increased overall gross margins.
Using best practices of the combined companies implementation processes, we have decreased travel costs for our acute-care installations by approximately 25%.
Also, during the first quarter of 2017, we instituted a limited-time, voluntary severance program offering those employees meeting certain predetermined criteria severance packages involving continuing periodic cash payments and healthcare benefits for varying periods, depending upon the individual's years of service with the Company.
Accordingly, we recognize that prospective hospital clients often do not have the necessary capital to make investments in information technology.
Additionally, in response to these challenges, hospitals have become more selective regarding where they invest capital, resulting in a focus on strategic spending that generates a return on their investment.
Despite these challenges, we believe healthcare information technology is often viewed as more strategically beneficial to hospitals than other possible purchases because the technology also plays an important role in healthcare by improving safety and efficiency and reducing costs.
In recent years, there have been significant changes to provider reimbursement by the U.S. federal government, followed by commercial payers and state governments.
This pressure could further encourage adoption of healthcare IT and increase demand for business management, consulting, and managed IT services as the future success of these healthcare providers is greatly dependent upon their ability to engage patient populations and to coordinate patient care across a multitude of settings, while optimizing operating efficiency along the way.
These financing arrangements include other short-term payment plans and longer-term lease financing through us or third-party financing companies.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Even disclosure controls and procedures determined to be effective can only provide reasonable assurance that their objectives are achieved.


part2.txt
Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
Item 3.Defaults Upon Senior Securities.


