fls.txt



item1.txt
All such adjustments are considered of a normal recurring nature.
The accounts of HHI include those of its wholly-owned subsidiaries, Healthland Inc. ("Healthland"), Rycan Technologies, Inc. ("Rycan"), and American HealthTech, Inc. ("AHT").
All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued ASU 2016-02, Leases, to increase transparency and comparability among organizations by recognizing lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet and disclosing key information about leasing arrangements.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact that the implementation of this standard will have on its financial statements.
performance obligations in the contract, (3) determine the transaction price, (4) allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract, and (5) recognize revenue when (or as) the entity satisfies a performance obligation.
The SSP of hardware is cost plus a reasonable margin.
•Software application support and hardware maintenance services sold with software licenses and hardware are separate and distinct performance obligations.
Payment is due monthly for support services provided.
Payment is due monthly for subscriptions to third party content.
•Software as a Service ("SaaS") arrangements for EHR software and related conversion and training services are considered a single performance obligation.
Refer to Note 15 - Segment Reporting, for further information, including revenue by client base (acute care or post-acute care) bifurcated by recurring and non-recurring revenue.
The deferred revenue recognized as revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 is comprised primarily of the periodic recognition of annual renewals that were deferred until earned and deposits for future EHR installations that were deferred until earned.


item2.txt
This discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
•TruBridge, our third reporting segment, focuses on providing business management, consulting, and managed IT services along with its complete revenue cycle management ("RCM") solution for all care settings, regardless of their primary healthcare information solutions provider.
Our clients primarily consist of community hospitals with fewer than 200 acute care beds, with hospitals having fewer than 100 beds comprising approximately 98% of our acute care EHR client base.
See Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements included herein for additional information on our three reportable segments.
As a result, retention of existing EHR customers is a key component of our long-term growth strategy by protecting this base of potential cross-sell customers, while at the same time serving as a leading indicator of our market position and stability of revenues and cash flows.
Our business model is designed such that, as revenue growth materializes, earnings and profitability growth are naturally bolstered through the increased margin realization afforded us by operating leverage.
The provision of these recurring revenue services typically requires fewer resources than the initial system installation, resulting in increased overall gross margins and operating margins.
Using best practices of the combined companies' implementation processes, we have decreased travel costs for our acute care installations by approximately 25%.
Accordingly, we recognize that prospective hospital clients often do not have the necessary capital to make investments in information technology.
Additionally, in response to these challenges, hospitals have become more selective regarding where they invest capital, resulting in a focus on strategic spending that generates a return on their investment.
Additionally, we believe most hospitals recognize that they must invest in healthcare information technology to meet current and future regulatory, compliance and government reimbursement requirements.
In recent years, there have been significant changes to provider reimbursement by the U.S. federal government, followed by commercial payers and state governments.
This pressure could further encourage adoption of healthcare IT and increase demand for business management, consulting, and managed IT services, as the future success of these healthcare providers is greatly dependent upon their ability to engage patient populations and to coordinate patient care across a multitude of settings, while optimizing operating efficiency along the way.
We have historically made financing arrangements available to clients on a case-by-case basis depending upon the various aspects of the proposed contract and customer attributes.


item3.txt
The Amended Term Loan Facility and Amended Revolving Credit Facility bear interest at a rate per annum equal to an applicable margin plus (1) the Adjusted LIBOR rate for the relevant interest period, (2) an alternate base rate determined by reference to the greatest of (a) the prime lending rate of Regions, (b) the federal funds rate for the relevant interest period plus one half of one percent per annum and (c) the one month LIBOR rate plus one percent per annum, or (3) a combination of (1) and (2).


item4.txt
Even disclosure controls and procedures determined to be effective can only provide reasonable assurance that their objectives are achieved.


part2.txt
The risks described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K are not the only risks facing our Company.


