All such adjustments are considered of a normal recurring nature.
Certain footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP") have been condensed or omitted.
The condensed consolidated financial statements of CPSI include the accounts of TruBridge, LLC ("TruBridge"), Evident, LLC ("Evident"), and Healthland Holding Inc. ("HHI"), all of which are wholly-owned subsidiaries of CPSI.
The accounts of HHI include those of its wholly-owned subsidiaries, Healthland Inc. ("Healthland"), Rycan Technologies, Inc. ("Rycan"), and American HealthTech, Inc. ("AHT").
All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
Effective January 1, 2018, our interface services team, which provides the design, development, implementation, and support services for all interfaces for data exchange from the CPSI applications and was previously considered a part of our product development division, has been integrated with our acute care client service team.
This transition has worked to create a consistent, personal, and convenient service experience for our clients characterized by transparent communication with prompt resolution.• TruBridge focuses on providing business management, consulting, and managed IT services along with its complete revenue cycle management ("RCM") solution for all care settings, regardless of their primary healthcare information solutions provider.
Our companies currently support approximately 1,100 acute care facilities and approximately 3,500 post-acute care facilities with a geographically diverse customer mix within the domestic community healthcare market.
Our clients primarily consist of community hospitals with 200 or fewer acute care beds, with hospitals having 100 or fewer beds comprising approximately 94% of our hospital EHR customer base.
Our Post-acute Care EHR segment consists of post-acute care software solutions and support sales generated by AHT.
Our TruBridge segment primarily consists of business management, consulting and managed IT services sales generated by TruBridge and the sale of the TruBridge revenue cycle management workflow and automation software.
Historically, we have primarily sought revenue growth through sales of healthcare IT systems and related services to existing and new clients within our target market, a strategy that has resulted in a ten-year compounded annual growth rate in legacy revenues (i.e., revenues related to our legacy Evident and TruBridge operations) of approximately 5.9% as of the end of our most recently completed fiscal year.
Important to our potential for continued long-term revenue growth is our ability to sell new and additional products and services to our existing customer base, including cross-selling opportunities presented with the acquisition of Healthland Holding Inc. ("HHI"), the parent company of Healthland, AHT and Rycan Technologies, Inc. We believe that as our combined customer base grows, the demand for additional products and services, including business management, consulting and managed IT services, will also continue to grow, supporting further increases in recurring revenues.
January 2016 marked an important milestone for CPSI, as we announced the completion of our acquisition of HHI, the first major acquisition in the Company's history.
This acquisition expanded our footprint for servicing acute care facilities and introduced us to the post-acute care segment, adding significantly to our already substantial recurring revenue base and further expanding our ability to generate organic recurring revenue growth through additional cross-selling opportunities now available within the combined company.
Once a hospital has installed our solutions, we continue to provide support services to the customer on an ongoing basis and make available to the customer our broad portfolio of business management, consulting, and managed IT services.Based upon that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures are effective at the reasonable assurance level.Item 3.Defaults Upon Senior Securities.