All such adjustments are considered of a normal recurring nature.
The condensed consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2018 was derived from the audited consolidated balance sheet at that date.
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2016-02, Leases, to increase transparency and comparability among organizations by recognizing lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet and disclosing key information about leasing arrangements.
The new guidance requires the recognition of lease assets and lease liabilities by lessees for those leases classified as operating leases under previous U.S. GAAP.
The SSP of hardware is cost plus a reasonable margin.
Standard manufacturer warranties apply to hardware.
•Software application support and hardware maintenance services sold with software licenses and hardware are separate and distinct performance obligations.•Evident, which makes up our Acute Care EHR reporting segment, provides comprehensive acute care electronic health record ("EHR") solutions, Thrive and Centriq, and related services for community hospitals and their physician clinics.
•TruBridge, our third reporting segment, focuses on providing business management, consulting, and managed IT services along with its complete revenue cycle management ("RCM") solution for all care settings, regardless of their primary healthcare information solutions provider.
•Get Real Health, included within our TruBridge segment, delivers technology solutions to improve patient outcomes and engagement strategies with care providers.
Our companies currently support approximately 1,000 acute care facilities and approximately 3,300 post-acute care facilities with a geographically diverse customer mix within the domestic community healthcare market.
Our clients primarily consist of community hospitals with fewer than 200 acute care beds, with hospitals having fewer than 100 beds comprising approximately 98% of our acute care EHR client base.
See Note 16 to the condensed consolidated financial statements included herein for additional information on our three reportable segments.
Through much of our history, our strategy has been to achieve meaningful long-term revenue growth through sales of healthcare IT systems and related services to existing and new clients within our target market.
Additionally, as we consider the long-term growth prospects of our business, we are seeking to further stabilize our revenues and cash flows and leverage TruBridge services as a growth agent in light of a relatively mature EHR marketplace.
As such, maintaining and growing recurring revenues are additional key components of our long-term growth strategy, aided by the aforementioned focus on customer retention, and includes a renewed focus on driving demand for subscriptions for our existing technology solutions.
Our business model is designed such that, as revenue growth materializes, earnings and profitability growth are naturally bolstered through the increased margin realization afforded us by operating leverage.Even disclosure controls and procedures determined to be effective can only provide reasonable assurance that their objectives are achieved.Item 1.Legal Proceedings.