In the opinion of management, the unaudited interim consolidated condensed financial statements of Applied Materials, Inc. and its subsidiaries (Applied or the Company) included herein have been prepared on a basis consistent with the October 29, 2017 audited consolidated financial statements and include all material adjustments, consisting of normal recurring adjustments, necessary to fairly present the information set forth therein.
These unaudited interim consolidated condensed financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in Applied’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 29, 2017 (2017 Form 10-K).
On an ongoing basis, Applied evaluates its estimates, including those related to accounts receivable and sales allowances, fair values of financial instruments, inventories, intangible assets and goodwill, useful lives of intangible assets and property and equipment, fair values of share-based awards, and income taxes, among others.
In July 2015, the Financial Accounting Standard Board (FASB) issued authoritative guidance that requires inventory to be measured at the lower of cost and net realizable value instead of at lower of cost or market.
Applied adopted this authoritative guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 prospectively to the measurement of inventory after the effective date.
In March 2016, the FASB issued authoritative guidance that simplifies several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including forfeitures, income tax, and classification on the statement of cash flows.
In the nine months ended July 29, 2018, Applied recognized an excess tax benefit of $51 million in the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Operations.
The stranded income tax effects related to the Tax Act were reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income to retained earnings in the consolidated statements of stockholders' equity as of July 29, 2018.
In August 2017, the FASB issued authoritative guidance that modifies the recognition and presentation of hedge accounting to better align an entity’s risk management strategies and financial reporting for hedging relationships.
The authoritative guidance expands the application of hedge accounting for non-financial and financial risk components and eases certain hedge effectiveness assessment requirements.Financial information as of July 29, 2018 should be read in conjunction with the financial statements for the fiscal year ended October 29, 2017 contained in the Company’s Form 10-K filed December 15, 2017.
Applied’s results are driven primarily by customer spending on capital equipment and services to support key technology transitions or to increase production volume in response to worldwide demand for semiconductors and displays.
Fiscal 2018 and 2017 each contains 52 weeks, and the first nine months of fiscal 2018 and 2017 each contained 39 weeks.
Investment in semiconductor and display manufacturing equipment and services continued to be a strong driver of revenue during the first nine months of fiscal 2018.
Semiconductor equipment customers continued to make investments in new capacity and overall semiconductor systems revenue increased as compared to the same period in the prior year.The risk factors set forth below include any material changes to, and supersede the description of, the risk factors disclosed in Part I, Item 1A of Applied’s 2017 Form 10-K.
The amount and mix of capital equipment spending between different products and technologies can have a significant impact on the Company’s results of operations.
To meet rapidly changing demand in the industries it serves, Applied must accurately forecast demand and effectively manage its resources and production capacity across its businesses, and may incur unexpected or additional costs to align its business operations.