fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements of Preformed Line Products Company and subsidiaries (the “Company” or “PLPC”) have been prepared in accordance with United States of America (U.S.) generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X.
For further information, refer to the consolidated financial statements and notes to consolidated financial statements included in the Company’s 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on March 9, 2018 with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
All revenue is recognized when the Company satisfies the performance obligations under the contract and control of the product is transferred to the customer, primarily based on shipping terms.
Cost of inventories for certain material is determined using the last-in-first-out (LIFO) method and totaled approximately $26.7 million at June 30, 2018 and $25.1 million at December 31, 2017.
An actual valuation of inventories under the LIFO method can be made only at the end of the year based on the inventory levels and costs at that time.
During the three month and six-month periods ended June 30, 2018, the net change in LIFO inventories resulted in $.2 million and $.4 million of expense, respectively, to Income before income taxes.
During the three month and six-month periods ended June 30, 2017, the net change in LIFO inventories resulted in a less than $.1 million benefit and a less than $.1 million of expense, respectively, to Income before income taxes.
The Company and its subsidiaries Helix Uniformed Ltd. (“Helix”) and Preformed Line Products (Canada) Limited (“PLPC Canada”), were each named, jointly and severally, with each of SNC-Lavalin ATP, Inc. (“SNC ATP”), HD Supply Canada Inc., by its trade names HD Supply Power Solutions and HD Supply Utilities (“HD Supply”), and Anixter Power Solutions Canada Inc. (the corporate successor to HD Supply, “Anixter” and, together with the Company, PLPC Canada, Helix, SNC ATP and HD Supply, the “Defendants”) in a complaint filed by Altalink, L.P. (the “Plaintiff”) in the Court of Queen’s Bench of Alberta in Alberta, Canada in November 2016 (the “Complaint”).
The Company will contribute $.1 million of additional funding to the Plan during the second half of 2018 and is continuing to evaluate the benefits of contributing additional funds to the Plan during the remainder of the current fiscal year.
Basic earnings per share were computed by dividing Net income by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding for each respective period.
Diluted earnings per share were calculated by dividing Net income by the weighted-average of all potentially dilutive common stock that was outstanding during the periods presented.
For both the three and six-month periods ended June 30, 2018, no stock options were excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share as there was no anti-dilutive effect.
For the three and six-month periods ended June 30, 2017, 48,498 and 47,679 stock options, respectively, were excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share as the effect would have been anti-dilutive.
There were no stock options exercised under this Plan during either of the six months ended June 30, 2018 or 2017.
As all stock options from the 1999 Stock Option Plan are fully vested, the Company recorded no compensation expense related to stock options for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017.
The Company maintains an equity award program to give the Company a competitive advantage in attracting, retaining, and motivating officers, employees and directors and to provide an incentive to those individuals to increase shareholder value through long-term incentives directly linked to the Company’s performance.


item2.txt
The segment managers responsible for each region report directly to the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, who is the chief operating decision maker, and are accountable for the financial results and performance of their entire segment for which they are responsible.
The business components within each segment are managed to maximize the results of the entire operating segment and Company rather than the results of any individual business component of the segment.
Costs and expenses of $25.9 million increased $2.5 million compared to 2017, including a favorable impact from currency translation of $.3 million.
Net income for the three months ended June 30, 2018 of $6.7 million increased $2.6 million compared to the three months ended June 30, 2017.
Costs and expenses of $49.6 million increased $3.9 million compared to 2017 and included an unfavorable impact from currency translation of $.4 million.
The following table sets forth a summary of the Company’s Statements of Consolidated Income and the percentage of net sales for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017.
The year over year increase in PLP-USA net sales of $4.6 million, or 12%, was primarily due to a volume increase in energy product sales.
International net sales for the three months ended June 30, 2018 experienced a favorable impact of $.4 million when local currencies were converted to U.S. dollars.
The Americas net sales of $18.0 million increased $3.1 million, or 18%, primarily due to a volume increase in energy and communication product sales.
EMEA net sales of $21.4 million increased $2.4 million, or 13%, primarily due to a volume increase in energy product sales in the region.
PLP-USA gross profit of $15.2 million increased $2.7 million compared to the same period in 2017 as a result of higher sales volume combined with a product sales mix shift to higher margin products.
International gross profit for the three months ended June 30, 2018 was unfavorably impacted by $.3 million when local currencies were translated to U.S. dollars.


item3.txt
The Company believes that the political and economic risks related to the Company’s international operations are mitigated due to the geographic diversity in which the Company’s international operations are located.


item4.txt



part2.txt
The Company and its subsidiaries, Helix Uniformed Ltd. (“Helix”) and Preformed Line Products (Canada) Limited (“PLPC Canada”), were each named, jointly and severally, with each of SNC-Lavalin ATP, Inc. (“SNC ATP”), HD Supply Canada Inc., by its trade names HD Supply Power Solutions and HD Supply Utilities (“HD Supply”), and Anixter Power Solutions Canada Inc. (the corporate successor to HD Supply, “Anixter” and, together with the Company, PLPC Canada, Helix, SNC ATP and HD Supply, the “Defendants”) in a complaint filed by Altalink, L.P. (the “Plaintiff”) in the Court of Queen’s Bench of Alberta in Alberta, Canada in November 2016 (the “Complaint”).


