fls.txt



item1.txt
Noncontrolling interests are presented in the Company’s consolidated financial statements as if parent company investors (controlling interests) and other minority investors (noncontrolling interests) in partially-owned subsidiaries have similar economic interests in a single entity.
For further information, refer to the consolidated financial statements and notes to consolidated financial statements included in the Company’s 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on March 8, 2019 with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
All revenue is recognized when the Company satisfies the performance obligations under the contract and control of the product is transferred to the customer, primarily based on shipping terms.
Cost of inventories for certain material is determined using the last-in-first-out (LIFO) method and totaled approximately $30.3 million at September 30, 2019 and $29.5 million at December 31, 2018.
An actual valuation of inventories under the LIFO method can be made only at the end of the year based on the inventory levels and costs at that time.
During the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2019, the net change in LIFO inventories resulted in $.1 million and $.5 million of expense, respectively, to Income before income taxes.
During the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018, the net change in LIFO inventories resulted in $.6 million and $1.1 million of expense, respectively, to Income before income taxes.
The Company and its subsidiaries Helix Uniformed Ltd. (“Helix”) and Preformed Line Products (Canada) Limited (“PLPC Canada”), were each named, jointly and severally, with each of SNC-Lavalin ATP, Inc. (“SNC ATP”), HD Supply Canada Inc., by its trade names HD Supply Power Solutions and HD Supply Utilities (“HD Supply”), and Anixter Power Solutions Canada Inc. (the corporate successor to HD Supply), “Anixter” and, together with the Company, PLPC Canada, Helix, SNC ATP and HD Supply, the (“Defendants”) in a complaint filed by Altalink, L.P. (the “Plaintiff”) in the Court of Queen’s Bench of Alberta in Alberta, Canada in November 2016 (the “Complaint”).
Diluted earnings per share were calculated by dividing Net income by the weighted-average of all potentially dilutive common stock that was outstanding during the periods presented.
For both the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2019, 15,000 stock options were excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share as the effect would have been anti-dilutive.
For both of the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018, no stock options were excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share as there was no anti-dilutive effect.
At September 30, 2019, the Company’s total net Finite-lived intangible assets includes $3.9 million of Customer relationships and $3.7 million of Technology attributable to its newly acquired businesses.
The Company performs its annual impairment test for goodwill utilizing a discounted cash flow methodology, market comparables, and an overall market capitalization reasonableness test in computing fair value by reporting unit.
As all stock options from the 1999 Stock Option Plan had been fully vested and exercised, the Company recorded no compensation expense related to stock options for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018.
The Company maintains an equity award program to give the Company a competitive advantage in attracting, retaining, and motivating officers, employees and directors and to provide an incentive to those individuals to increase shareholder value through long-term incentives directly linked to the Company’s performance.
Under the Preformed Line Products Company Long Term Incentive Plan of 2008 (the “LTIP”), certain employees, officers, and directors were eligible to receive awards of options, restricted shares and restricted share units (RSUs).
The total number of Company common shares reserved for awards under the LTIP was 900,000, of which 800,000 common shares were reserved for RSUs and 100,000 common shares have been reserved for share options.


item2.txt
The segment managers responsible for each region report directly to the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, who is the chief operating decision maker, and are accountable for the financial results and performance of their entire segment for which they are responsible.
Costs and expenses of $27.7 million increased $2.2 million compared to 2018 and included a favorable impact from currency translation of $1.1 million.
Net income for the three months ended September 30, 2019 of $8.0 million decreased $1.1 million compared to the three months ended September 30, 2018.
Net sales for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 of $331.2 million increased $15.7 million, or 5%, compared to the same period in 2018.
Costs and expenses of $79.6 million increased $4.5 million compared to 2018 and included a favorable impact from currency translation of $3.7 million.
The following table sets forth a summary of the Company’s Statements of Consolidated Income and the percentage of net sales for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018.
The year-over-year increase in PLP-USA net sales of $1.4 million, or 3%, was primarily due to a volume increase in energy product sales.
International net sales for the three months ended September 30, 2019 experienced an unfavorable impact of $3.3 million when local currencies were converted to U.S. dollars.
EMEA net sales of $21.1 million increased $3.8 million, or 21%, primarily due to a volume increase in energy and communications product sales within the region, including incremental sales from the newly acquired businesses.
In Asia-Pacific, net sales of $30.8 million increased $2.4 million, or 8%, compared to 2018 primarily due to a combined volume increase in the energy, communications and special industries products.


item3.txt
The Company believes that the political and economic risks related to the Company’s international operations are mitigated due to the geographic diversity in which the Company’s international operations are located.


item4.txt



part2.txt
The Company and its subsidiaries, Helix Uniformed Ltd. (“Helix”) and Preformed Line Products (Canada) Limited (“PLPC Canada”), were each named, jointly and severally, with each of SNC-Lavalin ATP, Inc. (“SNC ATP”), HD Supply Canada Inc., by its trade names HD Supply Power Solutions and HD Supply Utilities (“HD Supply”), and Anixter Power Solutions Canada Inc. (the corporate successor to HD Supply), “Anixter” and, together with the Company, PLPC Canada, Helix, SNC ATP and HD Supply, the (“Defendants”) in a complaint filed by Altalink, L.P. (the “Plaintiff”) in the Court of Queen’s Bench of Alberta in Alberta, Canada in November 2016 (the “Complaint”).


