fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements of Preformed Line Products Company and subsidiaries (the “Company” or “PLPC”) have been prepared in accordance with United States of America (U.S.) generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X.
Operating results for the three months ended March 31, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the full-year ending December 31, 2018.
For further information, refer to the consolidated financial statements and notes to consolidated financial statements included in the Company’s 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on March 9, 2018 with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
All revenue is recognized when the Company satisfies the performance obligations under the contract and control of the product is transferred to the customer, primarily based on shipping terms.
Cost of inventories for certain material is determined using the last-in-first-out (LIFO) method and totaled approximately $24.3 million at March 31, 2018 and $25.1 million at December 31, 2017.
An actual valuation of inventories under the LIFO method can be made only at the end of the year based on the inventory levels and costs at that time.
During the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, the net change in LIFO inventories resulted in $.2 million and $.1 million of expense to Income before income taxes, respectively.
The Company and its subsidiaries Helix Uniformed Ltd. (“Helix”) and Preformed Line Products (Canada) Limited (“PLPC Canada”), were each named, jointly and severally, with each of SNC-Lavalin ATP, Inc. (“SNC ATP”), HD Supply Canada Inc., by its trade names HD Supply Power Solutions and HD Supply Utilities (“HD Supply”), and Anixter Power Solutions Canada Inc. (the corporate successor to HD Supply, “Anixter” and, together with the Company, PLPC Canada, Helix, SNC ATP and HD Supply, the “Defendants”) in a complaint filed by Altalink, L.P. (the “Plaintiff”) in the Court of Queen’s Bench of Alberta in Alberta, Canada in November 2016 (the “Complaint”).
Basic earnings per share were computed by dividing Net income by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding for each respective period.
Diluted earnings per share were calculated by dividing Net income by the weighted-average of all potentially dilutive common stock that was outstanding during the periods presented.
For the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, 12,000 and 33,350 stock options, respectively, were excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share as the effect would have been anti-dilutive.
As all stock options from the 1999 Stock Option Plan are fully vested, the Company recorded no compensation expense related to stock options for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017.
The Company maintains an equity award program to give the Company a competitive advantage in attracting, retaining, and motivating officers, employees and directors and to provide an incentive to those individuals to increase shareholder value through long-term incentives directly linked to the Company’s performance.
Under the Preformed Line Products Company Long Term Incentive Plan of 2008 (the “LTIP”), certain employees, officers, and directors were eligible to receive awards of options, restricted shares and restricted share units (RSUs).
The total number of Company common shares reserved for awards under the LTIP was 900,000, of which 800,000 common shares were reserved for RSUs and 100,000 common shares have been reserved for share options.
The LTIP was terminated and replaced with the Preformed Line Products Company 2016 Incentive Plan (the “Incentive Plan”) in May 2016 upon approval by the Company’s Shareholders at the 2016 Annual Meeting of Shareholders on May 10, 2016.
No further awards will be made under the LTIP and previously granted awards remain outstanding in accordance with their terms.
Under the Incentive Plan, certain employees, officers, and directors will be eligible to receive awards of options, restricted shares and RSUs.


item2.txt
The segment managers responsible for each region report directly to the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, who is the chief operating decision maker, and are accountable for the financial results and performance of their entire segment for which they are responsible.
The business components within each segment are managed to maximize the results of the entire operating segment and Company rather than the results of any individual business component of the segment.
Costs and expenses of $23.8 million increased $1.4 million compared to 2017, including an unfavorable impact from currency translation of $.7 million.
Net income for the three months ended March 31, 2018 of $5.5 million increased $4.0 million compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017.
The following table sets forth a summary of the Company’s Statements of Consolidated Income and the percentage of net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017. International net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2018 were favorably affected by $2.7 million when local currencies were converted to U.S. dollars.
The Americas net sales of $19.5 million increased $3.3 million, or 20%, primarily due to a volume increase in formed wire and hardware related product sales and protective closure product sales.
In Asia-Pacific, net sales of $24.1 million increased $3.7 million, or 13%, compared to 2017 primarily due to a sales volume increase in formed wire and hardware related products.
PLP-USA gross profit of $13.5 million increased $3.5 million compared to the same period in 2017 as a result of higher sales volume combined with a product sales mix shift to higher margin products.
International gross profit for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was favorably impacted by $.6 million when local currencies were translated to U.S. dollars.


item3.txt
The Company believes that the political and economic risks related to the Company’s international operations are mitigated due to the geographic diversity in which the Company’s international operations are located.


item4.txt



part2.txt
The Company and its subsidiaries, Helix Uniformed Ltd. (“Helix”) and Preformed Line Products (Canada) Limited (“PLPC Canada”), were each named, jointly and severally, with each of SNC-Lavalin ATP, Inc. (“SNC ATP”), HD Supply Canada Inc., by its trade names HD Supply Power Solutions and HD Supply Utilities (“HD Supply”), and Anixter Power Solutions Canada Inc. (the corporate successor to HD Supply, “Anixter” and, together with the Company, PLPC Canada, Helix, SNC ATP and HD Supply, the “Defendants”) in a complaint filed by Altalink, L.P. (the “Plaintiff”) in the Court of Queen’s Bench of Alberta in Alberta, Canada in November 2016 (the “Complaint”).


