Any forward-looking statements we make herein are pursuant to the safe harbor provision of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
We undertake no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements for any reason.
We discuss certain factors in greater detail in “Business Overview” below.
Corporate capital spending trends and commitments are the primary determinants of the size of the market for business software.
In January 2019, the International Monetary Fund (“IMF”) provided an update to the World Economic Outlook for 2018 and 2019.
The update noted that, “Global growth for 2018 is estimated at 3.7 percent, as in the October 2018 World Economic Outlook (WEO) forecast, despite weaker performance in some economies, notably Europe and Asia.
The global economy is projected to grow at 3.5 percent in 2019 and 3.6 percent in 2020, 0.2 and 0.1 percentage point below last October’s projections.
The global growth forecast for 2019 and 2020 had already been revised downward in the last WEO, partly because of the negative effects of tariff increases enacted in the United States and China earlier that year.
The further downward revision since October in part reflects carry over from softer momentum in the second half of 2018—including in Germany following the introduction of new automobile fuel emission standards and in Italy where concerns about sovereign and financial risks have weighed on domestic demand—but also weakening financial market sentiment as well as a contraction in Turkey now projected to be deeper than anticipated."
For fiscal 2019, we expect the global economy to improve modestly when compared to the prior year.
We believe information technology spending will incrementally improve over the long term as increased global competition forces companies to improve productivity by upgrading their technology systems, which could result in an improved selling environment.
Customers continue to take long periods to evaluate discretionary software purchases.
We believe improved economic conditions may be driving some businesses to focus on achieving more process and efficiency enhancements in their operations and to invest in solutions that improve operating margins, rather than make large infrastructure-type technology purchases.
If this trend continues, we believe it may tend to favor solutions such as our supply chain solutions, which are designed to provide a more rapid return on investment and are targeted at some of the largest profit drivers in a customer’s business.
The SCM segment also includes (i) DMI, which delivers affordable, easy-to-use Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) supply chain planning solutions designed to increase forecast accuracy, improve customer service and reduce inventory to maximize profits and lower costs, (ii) NGC, which is a leading provider of cloud-based supply chain and product lifecycle management solutions for brands, retailers and consumer products companies, and (iii) Halo, which is an advanced analytics software provider leveraging an innovative blend of artificial intelligence and machine learning technology to drive greater supply chain performance.
The Other segment consists of (i) American Software ERP, which provides purchasing and materials management, customer order processing, financial, e-commerce and traditional manufacturing solutions, and (ii) corporate overhead and other common expenses.
Our cost of revenue for licenses includes amortization of capitalized computer software development costs, amortization of acquired developed technology, royalties paid to third-party software vendors, and agent commission expenses related to license revenues generated by the indirect channel, primarily from DMI.
We account for the development costs of software intended for sale in accordance with the Software topic of the FASB ASC.
We monitor the net realizable value of our capitalized software on a quarterly basis based on an estimate of future product revenues.
We currently expect to fully recover the value of the capitalized software asset recorded on our condensed consolidated balance sheet; however, if future product revenues are less than management’s current expectations, we may incur a write-down of capitalized software costs.
Our selling expenses mainly include the salary and commissions paid to our sales professionals, along with marketing, promotional, travel and associated costs.
•Acquisition Risks.
More specifically, in any acquisition we will face risks and challenges associated with the uncertain value of the acquired business or assets, the difficulty of assimilating operations and personnel, integrating acquired technologies and products and maintaining the loyalty of the customers of the acquired business.
A discussion of a number of additional risk factors associated with our business is included in our Annual Report for fiscal 2018.
For the three months ended January 31, 2019, the 10% decrease in revenues over the three months ended January 31, 2018 was attributable primarily to a 71% decrease in license revenues and to a lesser extent a 2% decrease in professional fees and other revenues, when compared to the same period last year.
This decrease was partially offset by a 43% increase in subscription fees revenues and to a lesser extent a 2% increase in maintenance revenues.
This decrease was partially offset by a 63% increase in subscription fees revenues, and to a lesser extent a 5% increase in maintenance revenues and a 1% increase in professional services revenues.
Due to intense competition in our industry, we sometimes discount license fees from our published list price.
Numerous factors contribute to the amount of the discount provided, such as previous customer purchases, the number of customer sites utilizing the software, the number of modules purchased and the number of users, as well as the overall size of the contract.
While all these factors may affect the discount amount of a particular contract, the overall percentage discount has not materially changed in the recent reported fiscal periods.
International revenues represented approximately 17% and 19% of total revenues in the three and nine months ended January 31, 2019, respectively and 20% of total revenues in the three and nine months ended January 31, 2018.
For the three and nine months ended January 31, 2019, license fee revenues decreased 71% and 56%, respectively, when compared to the same period in the prior year.
In the three and nine months ended January 31, 2019, license fee revenues from our SCM segment decreased 71% and 57%, respectively, when compared to the corresponding periods in the prior year due to an increase in sales of our products on Logility’s cloud services platform that require revenue to be deferred over the life of the contracted period, which is typically one to three years.
For both the three months and nine months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018, our SCM segment constituted approximately 98% and 99% of total license fee revenues, respectively.
2019 when compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to timing of additional sales to our existing ERP customers.
The increase in the percentage of sales by our direct sales channel for the nine months ended January 31, 2019 was due to our indirect channel selling proportionately more SaaS than license contracts compared to our direct channel.
For the three and nine months ended January 31, 2019, our margins after commissions on direct sales were approximately 95% and 90%, compared to 88% and 87% in the comparable periods last year.
The increase in margins is due to the mix of sales commission rates based on each individual salesperson’s quotas and related achievement.
For the three months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018, our margins after commissions on indirect sales were approximately 52% and 32%, respectively.
For the nine months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018, our margins after commissions on indirect sales were approximately 54% and 36%, respectively.
The indirect channel margins for the current quarter increased compared to the same periods in the prior year due to the mix of value-added reseller (“VAR”) commission rates.
These margin calculations include only commission expense for comparative purposes and do not include other costs of license fees such as amortization of capitalized software.
For the three and nine months ended January 31, 2019, subscription fees revenues increased by 43% and 63%, respectively, primarily due to the increased subscription fees revenues from our SCM segment which increased sales of our products on our cloud services platform that require revenue to be deferred over the life of the contracted period, which is typically one to three years.
For the nine months ended January 31, 2019, cloud services ACV increased approximately 49% to $16.2 million compared to $10.9 million in the same period of the prior year due to increased sales of our products on our Cloud Services platform that require revenue to be deferred over the life of the contracted period, which is typically one to three years.
ACV is a forward-looking operating measure used by management to better understand cloud services (SaaS and other related cloud services) revenue trends within our business, as it reflects our current estimate of revenue to be generated under existing client contracts in the forward 12-month period.
For the three and nine months ended January 31, 2019, professional services and other revenues decreased by 2% and increased by 1%, respectively, due to the increased professional services and other revenues from our Other and IT Consulting segments.
This increase was partially offset by a decrease in professional services and other revenues from our SCM segment.
For the three and nine months ended January 31, 2019, our IT Consulting segment’s revenues increased 8% and 15% when compared to the same periods in the prior year due to an increase in project work from existing and new customers.
For the three and nine months ended January 31, 2019, our SCM segment’s revenues decreased 10% and 9%, primarily because certain implementation project work ended during the quarter before new projects could start.
We have observed that there is a tendency for services and other revenues, other than from IT Consulting, to lag changes in license and subscription revenues by one to three quarters, as new licenses and subscriptions in one quarter often involve implementation and consulting services in subsequent quarters, for which we recognize revenues only as we perform those services.
Our SCM maintenance revenue increased 2% and 6% for the three and nine months ended January 31, 2019, when compared to the same periods last year due primarily to our recent Halo acquisition in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 and improved customer retention.
Typically, our maintenance revenues have had a direct relationship to current and historic license fee revenues, since new licenses are the potential source of new maintenance customers.
For the three and nine months ended January 31, 2019, our total gross margin percentages decreased when compared to the same periods in the prior year primarily due to our lower margins on license fee revenue and professional services and other revenue, partially offset by higher margins on subscription fees and maintenance revenue.
License fee gross margin percentage for the three and nine months ended January 31, 2019 decreased when compared to the same period in the prior year.
License fee gross margin percentage tends to be directly related to the level of license fee revenues due to the relatively fixed cost of computer software amortization expense, amortization of acquired software and the sales mix between our direct and indirect channels.
Our gross margin percentage on subscription fees revenues increased from 60% and 56% for the three and nine months ended January 31, 2018 to 62% and 63% for the three and nine months ended January 31, 2019, respectively, primarily due to the increase in subscription revenue, combined with a lower incremental increase in cost.
Our gross margin percentage on professional services and other revenues remained flat at 24% for the three months ended January 31, 2018 and for the three months ended January 31, 2019.
Our gross margin percentage on professional services and other revenues decreased from 29% for the nine months ended January 31, 2018 to 24% for the nine months ended January 31, 2019.
This decrease was primarily due to lower gross margins in our SCM segment services of 28% and 32% for the three months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018, and 23% and 31% for the nine months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, due to lower billing utilization from several large projects ending during the quarter.
Our Other segment professional services gross margin increased from 28% to 51% for the three months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and from 33% to 45% for the nine months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018, due to higher margin projects in the current quarter.
Our IT Consulting segment professional services gross margin increased from 23% to 24% for the three months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and 21% to 24% for the nine months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018, due to higher margin projects in the current quarter.
Professional services and other gross margin is directly related to the level of services and other revenues.
The primary component of cost of services and other revenues is services staffing, which is relatively inelastic in the short term.
The primary cost component is maintenance staffing, which is relatively inelastic in the short term.
For the three and nine months ended January 31, 2019, gross product research and development costs increased 18% and 17%, respectively, when compared to the same periods in the previous year due partially to the recent Halo acquisition in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 and increased headcount in our SCM segment.
For the three and nine months ended January 31, 2019, sales and marketing expenses decreased 13% and increased 1%, respectively, when compared to the same periods a year ago, primarily due to lower commissions in the current quarter due to lower sales revenue and an increase in headcount for the nine months ended January 31, 2019 when compared to the same periods last year.
Our SCM segment operating income decreased by 17% and 23% in the three and nine months ended January 31, 2019 compared to the same periods in the prior year primarily due to the recent Halo acquisition in the third quarter of fiscal 2018.
Our IT Consulting segment’s operating income increased by 32% and 29% for the three and nine months ended January 31, 2019 compared to same periods last year primarily due to increased revenues and gross margins.
Our Other segment operating loss increased by 59% and 67% for the three and nine months ended January 31, 2019 when compared to the same periods in the prior year because all corporate overhead and common expenses are included in this segment in fiscal 2019.
Other income is comprised of net interest and dividend income, rental income, exchange rate gains and losses, and realized and unrealized gains and losses from investments.
For the three and nine months ended January 31, 2019, the decrease in other income is mainly due to higher unrealized losses on investments when compared to the same periods last year.
We recorded losses of approximately $80,000 and $393,000 for the three and nine months ended January 31, 2019, respectively, from our trading securities portfolio.
We recorded gains of approximately $997,000 and $1,378,000 the three and nine months ended January 31, 2018, respectively, from our trading securities portfolio.
We establish a deferred tax asset for the expected future benefit of net operating loss and credit carry-forwards.
During the three and nine months ended January 31, 2019, we recorded income tax expense of $356,000 and $424,000, respectively, primarily due to discrete stock compensation shortfalls of $26,000 and discrete stock compensation benefits of $260,000, respectively, net of normal income tax expense from operations.
Before adjusting for these discrete tax benefits, our effective tax rate would have been 14.3% and 13.7%, respectively, in the three and nine months ended January 31, 2019 compared to our tax effective rate of 22.5% and 29.8% in the three and nine months ended January 31, 2018.
In addition, research and development and foreign tax credits reduced our effective tax rate by 7.5% and 2.7%, respectively, in the nine months ended January 31, 2019, compared to reductions of 3% and 1%, respectively, in the nine months ended January 31, 2018.
We expect this pattern to continue.
We have historically funded, and continue to fund, our operations and capital expenditures primarily with cash generated from operating activities.
We have no debt obligations or off-balance sheet financing arrangements, and therefore, we used no cash for debt service purposes.
The following table shows information about our cash flows and liquidity positions during the nine months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018.
You should read this table and the discussion that follows in conjunction with our condensed consolidated statements of cash flows contained in “Item 1” in Part I of this Quarterly Report and in our Annual Report for fiscal 2018.
The decrease in cash used in investing activities when compared to the same period in the prior year was mainly due to the Halo acquisition in fiscal 2018, partially offset by an increase in purchases of property and equipment and higher capitalized computer software development costs.
The increase in cash used in financing activities compared to the prior year was due primarily to an increase in dividends paid and a decrease in proceeds from exercise of stock options.
Our total activities used more cash and investments during the nine months ended January 31, 2019, when compared to the prior year period, primarily due to normal business operations.
This increase is primarily due to the timing of billings and cash collections.
Our business in recent periods has generated substantial positive cash flow from operations, excluding purchases and proceeds of sale of trading securities.
For this reason, and because we had $84.2 million in cash and investments with no debt as of January 31, 2019, we believe that our sources of liquidity and capital resources will be sufficient to satisfy our presently anticipated requirements during at least the next twelve months for working capital, capital expenditures and other corporate needs.
However, at some future date we may need to seek additional sources of capital to meet our requirements.
If such need arises, we may be required to raise additional funds through equity or debt financing.
We do not currently have a bank line of credit.
We can provide no assurance that bank lines of credit or other financing will be available on terms acceptable to us.
If available, such financing may result in dilution to our shareholders or higher interest expense.
On August 19, 2002, our Board of Directors approved a resolution authorizing the repurchase of up to an additional 2.0 million shares of our Class A common stock.
Under this repurchase plan, through January 31, 2019, we have repurchased 1,053,679 shares of common stock at a cost of approximately $6.2 million.
As of January 31, 2019, under all repurchase plans previously authorized, including this most recent plan, we have repurchased a total of 4,588,632 shares of common stock at a cost of approximately $25.6 million.
For information with respect to revenue recognition policy, see Notes A and B in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report.
We estimate the value of options granted on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
Management’s judgments and assumptions related to volatility, the expected term and the forfeiture rate are made in connection with the calculation of stock-based compensation expense.
We periodically review all assumptions used in our stock option pricing model.
Changes in these assumptions could have a significant impact on the amount of stock-based compensation expense.
Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
