Foreign Currency.
In each of the three and nine months ended January 31, 2019, we generated approximately 17% and 19% of our revenues, respectively, outside the United States.
However, expenses incurred in connection with these sales are typically denominated in the local currencies.
We recorded exchange rate losses of approximately $21,000 and of $375,000 for the three and nine months ended January 31, 2019, respectively, compared to an exchange rate gain of approximately $75,000 for both the three months and nine months ended January 31, 2018, respectively.
We estimate that a 10% movement in foreign currency rates would have had the effect of creating up to a $390,000 and $430,000 exchange rate gain or loss for the three and nine months ended January 31, 2019, respectively.
We have not engaged in any hedging activities.
Interest Rates and Other Market Risks.
We manage our interest rate risk by maintaining an investment portfolio of trading investments with high credit quality and relatively short average maturities.
These instruments include, but are not limited to, money-market instruments, bank time deposits, and taxable and tax-advantaged variable rate and fixed rate obligations of corporations, municipalities, and national, state, and local government agencies, in accordance with an investment policy approved by our Board of Directors.
These cash balances represent operating balances only and are invested in short-term time deposits of the local bank.
Such operating cash balances held at banks outside the United States are denominated in the local currency and are minor.
Many of our investments carry a degree of interest rate risk.
When interest rates fall, our income from investments in variable-rate securities declines.
When interest rates rise, the fair market value of our investments in fixed-rate securities declines.
In addition, our investments in equity securities are subject to stock market volatility.
Inflation.
Item 3.Defaults Upon Senior Securities
