The accompanying unaudited financial statements of NVE Corporation are prepared consistent with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States and in accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission rules and regulations.
In the opinion of management, these financial statements reflect all adjustments, consisting only of normal and recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of the financial statements.
We recognize revenue when we satisfy performance obligations by the transfer of control of products or services to our customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those products or services.
We recognize contract research and development revenue over a period of time as the performance obligation is satisfied over a period of time rather than a point in time.
Contracts have specifications unique to each customer and do not create an asset with an alternate use, and we have an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date.
We recognize revenue over a period of time using costs incurred as the measurement of progress towards completion.
Accounts receivable is recognized when we have transferred a good or service to a customer and our right to receive consideration is unconditional through the completion of our performance obligation.
A contract asset is recognized when we have a right to consideration from the transfer of goods or services to a customer but have not completed our performance obligation.
A contract liability is recognized when we have been paid by a customer but have not yet satisfied the performance obligation by transferring goods or services.
Our performance obligations related to product sales and contract research and development contracts are satisfied in one year or less.
As permitted under Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, we are using the practical expedient not to disclose the value of these unsatisfied performance obligations.
The amendments in ASU 2018-13 will be effective for fiscal years beginning after  December 15, 2019, and interim periods within those fiscal years, which will be fiscal 2021 for us.
Early adoption is permitted for the removed disclosures and delayed adoption is permitted until fiscal 2021 for the new disclosures.
The removed and modified disclosures were adopted on a retrospective basis and the new disclosures on a prospective basis.
The guidance will be effective for fiscal years beginning after  December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years, which will be fiscal 2020 for us.
Early adoption is permitted, and we adopted ASU 2018-02 in the quarter ended  June 30, 2018.
The adoption resulted in a $60,365 reclassification from accumulated other comprehensive loss to retained earnings due to the change in the federal corporate tax rate.
2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230), Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments, which made eight targeted changes to how cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows.
ASU 2014-09 is based on the principle that revenue is recognized to depict the transfer of goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
We adopted the guidance using the modified retrospective method to contracts that were not complete as of  April 1, 2018.