Financial Statements.
We recognize revenue when we satisfy performance obligations by the transfer of control of products or services to our customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those products or services.
We recognize any such commissions as selling, general, and administrative expenses.
We recognize contract research and development revenue over a period of time as the performance obligation is satisfied over a period of time rather than a point in time.
Accounts receivable is recognized when we have transferred a good or service to a customer and our right to receive consideration is unconditional through the completion of our performance obligation.
A contract asset is recognized when we have a right to consideration from the transfer of goods or services to a customer but have not completed our performance obligation.
A contract liability is recognized when we have been paid by a customer but have not yet satisfied the performance obligation by transferring goods or services.
We had no material contract assets or contract liabilities as of  September 30, 2018 or  March 31, 2018.
Our performance obligations related to product sales and contract research and development contracts are satisfied in one year or less.
As permitted under Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, we are using the practical expedient not to disclose the value of these unsatisfied performance obligations.
In  August 2018, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No.
2018-13, Fair Value Measurement.
ASU 2018-13 modifies the disclosure requirements for fair value measurements by removing, modifying, or adding certain disclosures.
The amendments in ASU 2018-13 will be effective for fiscal years beginning after  December 15, 2019, and interim periods within those fiscal years, which will be fiscal 2021 for us.
Early adoption is permitted for the removed disclosures and delayed adoption is permitted until fiscal 2021 for the new disclosures.
We adopted ASU 2018-13 early, effective the quarter ended  September 30, 2018.
The adoption did not have a significant effect on our financial statements.
We adopted ASU 2016-15 retrospectively in the quarter ended  June 30, 2018.
The adoption did not have a significant impact on our financial statements.
ASU 2014-09 is based on the principle that revenue is recognized to depict the transfer of goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.