Item 1. Legal Proceedings
Item 1A. Risk Factors
Under U.S. GAAP, an entity must separately account for the debt component and the embedded conversion option of convertible debt instruments that may be settled entirely or partially in cash or in shares of common stock upon conversion, such as our New Senior Convertible Notes, in a manner that reflects the issuer’s effective interest cost. The fair value of the embedded conversion option is classified as an addition to stockholder’s equity. The difference between book carrying cost and face value of the debt represents a non-cash discount. This difference will be amortized into interest expense over the estimated life of the New Senior Convertible Notes using the effective yield method. As a result, we will be required to record a greater amount of non-cash interest expense as a result of the amortization of the discount over the term of the New Senior Convertible Notes. Accordingly, we will report lower net income because of the recognition of both the current period’s discount amortization and the New Senior Convertible Notes’ coupon interest, which could adversely affect the trading price of our shares of common stock and the trading price (if any) of the New Senior Convertible Notes. 
Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
On January 3, 2019, as partial consideration for the acquisition of VaaS International Holdings ("VaaS"), a company that is a global provider of data and image analytics for vehicle location, we issued 1,802,379 shares of common stock the Company at a fair value of $198 million, inclusive of $38 million related to compensation withheld from the purchase that will be expensed over an average service period of one year, to certain of the former owners of VaaS. These shares were issued in reliance upon the exemption from registration provided by Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, in a privately negotiated transaction not involving any public offering or solicitation. 
On July 11, 2019 the Company issued 80,702 shares of restricted stock in connection with the acquisition of WatchGuard, Inc., a company that is a U.S. leader in mobile video solutions. The restricted stock was issued for an aggregate grant-date fair value of $14 million that will be expensed over an average service period of two years. These shares were issued in reliance upon the exemption from registration provided by Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, in a privately negotiated transaction not involving any public offering or solicitation. 
As disclosed on a Form 8-K previously filed, on September 5, 2019, the Company entered into an investment agreement, pursuant to which it issued $1.0 billion in the New Senior Convertible Notes in a private placement pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The sale was completed in reliance on the exemption from registration provided by Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act. The Company relied on such exemption from registration based in part on representations made by the investment agreement with Silver Lake Partners.
On September 5, 2019, in connection with the agreement with Silver Lake Partners to settle a portion of the principal amount of the Senior Convertible Notes, the Company issued 5,471,271 million shares of common stock. These shares were issued in reliance upon the exemption from registration provided by Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, in a privately negotiated transaction not involving any public offering of solicitation. Subsequently, the shares were registered for resale by the selling securityholders pursuant to a registration statement filed on September 6, 2019. The selling securityholders will receive all of the proceeds from the sale or other disposition of the shares of common stock. The Company will not receive any of the proceeds from the sale or other disposition of the shares of common stock.
Item 3. Defaults Upon Senior Securities.
Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures.
None.
None.
Item 6. Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
