fls.txt



item1.txt
The unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements of Juniper Networks, Inc. (the “Company” or “Juniper”) have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
GAAP”) for interim financial information.
The Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2017, has been derived from the audited Consolidated Financial Statements at that date.
Except for the change in certain policies upon adoption of the accounting standards described below, there have been no material changes to the Company's significant accounting policies, compared to the accounting policies described in Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies, in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II of the Form 10-K. Revenue is recognized when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services by following a five-step process, (1) identify the contract with a customer, (2) identify the performance obligations in the contract, (3) determine the transaction price, (4) allocate the transaction price, and (5) recognize revenue when or as the Company satisfies a performance obligation, as further described below.
Certain software licenses and related post-contract support are combined into a single performance obligation when the maintenance updates are critical to the continued functionality of the software.
The transaction price for the Company’s contracts with its customers consists of both fixed and variable consideration provided it is probable that a significant reversal of revenue will not occur when the uncertainty related to variable consideration is resolved.
Fixed consideration includes amounts to be contractually billed to the customer while variable consideration includes estimates for rights of return, rebates, and price protection, which are based on historical sales returns and price protection credits, specific criteria outlined in rebate agreements, and other factors known at the time.
Customer invoices are generally due within 30 to 90 days after issuance.
Allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract.
For contracts that contain multiple performance obligations, the Company allocates the transaction price to the performance obligations on a relative standalone selling price basis.
services, pricing practices in different geographies and through different sales channels, gross margin objectives, internal costs, competitor pricing strategies, and industry technology lifecycles.
Certain software licenses combined with post-contract support are recognized over time on a ratable basis over the term of the license.
Revenue from training and professional services is recognized over time as services are completed or ratably over the contractual period of generally one year or less.
Sales commissions earned by the Company’s sales force are considered incremental and recoverable costs of obtaining a contract with a customer.
These costs are deferred and then amortized over a period of benefit which is typically over the term of the customer contracts as initial commission rates and renewal rates are the same.


item2.txt
We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason, except as required by applicable law.
In making these decisions, we consider various factors, including contractual obligations, customer satisfaction, competition, internal and external financial targets and expectations, and financial planning objectives.
Each of these decisions has some impact on the financial results for any given period.


item4.txt



part2.txt
The information set forth under the “Legal Proceedings” section in Note 14, Commitments and Contingencies, in Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this Report, is incorporated herein by reference.
Investments in our securities involve significant risks.
For example, we, and many companies in our industry, experience adverse seasonal fluctuations in customer spending, particularly in the first quarter.
Such adjustments may be difficult or impossible to execute in the short or medium term.
In fiscal year 2016, our margins decreased compared to fiscal year 2015, primarily due to elevated pricing pressure and product mix.
In fiscal year 2015, our margins increased compared to fiscal year 2014, as a result of higher restructuring and other charges recorded in 2014 but not in 2015, in connection with the restructuring plan we initiated in the first quarter of 2014.
We expect that our margins will vary with our ability to achieve these goals.
We can provide no assurance that we will be able to achieve all or any of the goals of these plans or meet our announced expectations, in whole or in part, or that our plans will have the intended effect of improving our margins on the expected timeline, or at all.
In addition, a number of our existing customers are evaluating the build-out of their next generation networks.
For example, in recent quarters, our switching and routing results were adversely affected by spending delays from our largest Cloud customers, who we believe are in the process of implementing a networking architectural shift.
Our ability to successfully offer our products and services in a rapidly evolving market requires an effective planning, forecasting, and management process to enable us to effectively scale and adjust our business and business models in response to fluctuating market opportunities and conditions.


