fls.txt



item1.txt
The unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements of Juniper Networks, Inc. (the “Company” or “Juniper”) have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
GAAP”) for interim financial information.
The Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2018 has been derived from the audited Consolidated Financial Statements at that date.
Except for the change in certain policies upon adoption of the accounting standards described below, there have been no material changes to the Company's significant accounting policies, compared to the accounting policies described in Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies, in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II of the Form 10-K.
The adoption of the standard had no impact on the Company's Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations and Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows or debt-covenant compliance under its current agreements.
See Note 15, Commitment and Contingencies, for additional disclosures required upon adopting the standard.
The Company evaluates classification of leases at commencement and, as necessary, at modification.
Operating leases are included in operating lease ROU assets, other accrued liabilities, and operating lease liabilities on the Company's Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
ROU assets represent the Company's right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent its obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
The operating lease ROU asset also includes any lease payments made prior to lease commencement and excludes lease incentives.
Variable lease payments primarily include reimbursements of costs incurred by lessors for common area maintenance and utilities.
The Company's lease terms are the noncancelable period including any rent-free periods provided by the lessor and include options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that it will exercise that option.
The acquisition of Mist, a company that provides cloud-managed wireless networks powered by artificial intelligence, is expected to enhance Juniper's enterprise networking portfolio by combining Mist’s next-generation Wireless LAN platform with Juniper's wired LAN, SD-WAN, and security solutions to deliver integrated end-to-end user and IT experiences.
The goodwill recognized in connection with the acquisition is primarily attributable to anticipated synergies from future growth and will not be deductible for income tax purposes.
For available-for-sale debt securities that have unrealized losses, the Company assesses impairment by evaluating various factors, including whether (i) it has the intention to sell any of these investments and (ii) whether it is more likely than not that it will be required to sell any of these investments before recovery of the entire amortized cost basis.
As of June 30, 2019, the Company had 271 investments in unrealized loss positions.


item2.txt
We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason, except as required by applicable law.
In making these decisions, we consider various factors, including contractual obligations, customer satisfaction, competition, internal and external financial targets and expectations, and financial planning objectives.
Each of these decisions has some impact on the financial results for any given period.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
The information set forth under the “Legal Proceedings” section in Note 15, Commitments and Contingencies, in Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this Report, is incorporated herein by reference.
Investments in our securities involve significant risks.
For example, we, and many companies in our industry, experience adverse seasonal fluctuations in customer spending, particularly in the first quarter.
Such adjustments may be difficult or impossible to execute in the short or medium term.
We expect our gross margins and operating margins to vary over time.
For example, in fiscal year 2018, our margins decreased as compared to fiscal year 2017, primarily due to lower net revenues and product mix.
In addition, there is an ongoing trend toward consolidation in the industry in which our customers and partners operate.
The routing and switching markets have historically been dominated by Cisco Systems, Inc., or Cisco, with competition coming from other companies such as Nokia Corporation, Arista Networks, Inc., Hewlett Packard Enterprise Co., and Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd.
In the security market, we face intense competition from Cisco and Palo Alto Networks, Inc., as well as companies such as Check Point Software Technologies, Ltd., and Fortinet, Inc. Further, a number of other small public and private companies have products or have announced plans for new products to address the same challenges and markets that our products address.
As a result, the sales cycle may be lengthy.
In particular, customers making critical decisions regarding the design and implementation of large network deployments may engage in very lengthy procurement processes that may delay or impact expected future orders.


