fls.txt



item1.txt
rules and regulations. In the opinion of management, these financial statements
products or services. Revenue is disaggregated into product sales and contract
by agreed upon shipping terms. Shipping charges billed to customers are included
in product sales and the related shipping costs are included in cost of sales.
the sale of custom products or research and development contracts with third parties.
a period of time using costs incurred as the measurement of progress towards completion.
and Nos. 33-10231 and 33-10442, Investment Company Reporting Modernization, and
liabilities a right-of-use asset of $261,644 as of April 1, 2019. The leased liabilities
and right-of-use asset exclude non-lease components. There was no effect on our
which clarifies codification and corrects unintended application of the guidance.
at amortized cost basis to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected.
period. Net income per diluted share amounts assume exercise of all stock options.
including money market funds, to be cash equivalents. Gains and losses on marketable
prescribe required disclosures about fair-value measurements. Generally accepted
sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability. Fair value is a market-based measurement
in pricing an asset or liability. Generally accepted accounting principles utilize
a valuation hierarchy for disclosure of fair value measurements. The categorization
to declines in credit quality. When evaluating for impairment we assess indicators
quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019. Stock-based compensation expenses
value of lease payments. Lease expense is recognized on a straight-line basis
period was due to decreased purchase volumes by existing customers. The decrease
partially offset by a decrease in net income. The unrealized gain was due to strong
used in financing activities. We currently believe our working capital and cash
securities. All future dividends will be subject to Board approval and subject
disclosure. Based on such evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial


