fls.txt



item1.txt
rules and regulations. In the opinion of management, these financial statements
products or services. Revenue is disaggregated into product sales and contract
contracts with third parties. We recognize any such commissions as selling, general,
a period of time using costs incurred as the measurement of progress towards completion.
a customer but have not completed our performance obligation. A contract liability
disclosures and delayed adoption is permitted until fiscal 2021 for the new disclosures.
We adopted ASU 2018-13 early, effective the quarter ended September 30, 2018.
those fiscal years, which will be fiscal 2020 for us. Early adoption is permitted,
of the investee. The amendment provides clarity on the measurement methodology
expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. It also requires
which clarifies codification and corrects unintended application of the guidance.
lease liabilities on the balance sheet of lessees. In July 2018, the FASB issued
at the earliest comparative period presented in its financial statements. We expect
period. Net income per diluted share amounts assume exercise of all stock options.
as available-for-sale securities and carried at estimated fair value. Unrealized
including money market funds, to be cash equivalents. Gains and losses on marketable
prescribe required disclosures about fair-value measurements. Generally accepted
in pricing an asset or liability. Generally accepted accounting principles utilize
to the fair value measurement. The categories within the valuation hierarchy are
to declines in credit quality. When evaluating for impairment we assess indicators
their reelection to our Board. We calculate the share-based compensation expense
using the Black-Scholes standard option-pricing model. The increase in stock-based
in selling, general, and administrative expense. The increase in research and
offset by $14,310,090 of cash used in financing activities. We currently believe
disclosure. Based on such evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial


