item1.txt
 We develop and sell devices that use spintronics, a nanotechnology that relies on electron spin rather than electron charge to acquire, store, and transmit information.
In the opinion of management, these financial statements reflect all adjustments, consisting only of normal and recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of the financial statements.
 We recognize revenue when we satisfy performance obligations by the transfer of control of products or services to our customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those products or services.
 We recognize contract research and development revenue over a period of time as the performance obligation is satisfied over a period of time rather than a point in time.
Contracts have specifications unique to each customer and do not create an asset with an alternate use, and we have an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date.
We recognize revenue over a period of time using costs incurred as the measurement of progress towards completion.
 Accounts receivable is recognized when we have transferred a good or service to a customer and our right to receive consideration is unconditional through the completion of our performance obligation.
A contract liability is recognized when we have been paid by a customer but have not yet satisfied the performance obligation by transferring goods or services.
 Our performance obligations related to product sales and contract research and development contracts are satisfied in one year or less.
ASU 2018-13 modifies the disclosure requirements for fair value measurements by removing, modifying, or adding certain disclosures.
The amendments in ASU 2018-13 will be effective for fiscal years beginning after  December 15, 2019, and interim periods within those fiscal years, which will be fiscal 2021 for us.
Early adoption is permitted for the removed disclosures and delayed adoption is permitted until fiscal 2021 for the new disclosures.
The guidance will be effective for fiscal years beginning after  December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years, which will be fiscal 2020 for us.
The adoption resulted in a $60,365 reclassification from accumulated other comprehensive loss to retained earnings due to the change in the federal corporate tax rate.
2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230), Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments, which made eight targeted changes to how cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows.
ASU 2014-09 is based on the principle that revenue is recognized to depict the transfer of goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
Unrealized holding gains and losses are included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in the statement of shareholders’ equity.
Corporate bonds with remaining maturities less than one year are classified as short-term, and those with remaining maturities greater than one year are classified as long-term.
We consider all highly-liquid investments with maturities of three months or less when purchased, including money market funds, to be cash equivalents.
 Level 1 – Financial instruments with quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
 Level 2 – Financial instruments with quoted prices in active markets for similar assets or liabilities.
Level 2 fair value measurements are determined using either prices for similar instruments or inputs that are either directly or indirectly observable, such as interest rates.
 Money market funds are included on the balance sheets in “Cash and cash equivalents.” Corporate bonds are included on the balance sheets in “Marketable securities, short term” and “Marketable securities, long term.”
None of the securities were impaired at acquisition, and subsequent declines in fair value are not attributed to declines in credit quality.
 Stock-based compensation expense was $93,360 for the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019, and $40,920 for the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2018.
We calculate the share-based compensation expense using the Black-Scholes standard option-pricing model.
The increase in stock-based compensation expense for fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018 was due to an increase in the model valuation for the same number of options to purchase shares.
 The Act “To provide for reconciliation pursuant to titles II and V of the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2018” (the “Tax Reform Act”) was enacted  December 22, 2017.
 On  January 21, 2009 we announced that our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $2,500,000 of our Common Stock, and on  August 27, 2015 we announced that our Board authorized $5,000,000 of additional repurchases.
 On  October 17, 2018 we announced that our Board had declared a quarterly cash dividend of $1.00 per share of Common Stock to be paid  November 30, 2018 to shareholders of record as of the close of business  October 29, 2018.


