fls.txt



item1.txt
We also operate esports events and leagues and create film and television content based on our intellectual property.
The terms “Activision Blizzard,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” and “our” are used to refer collectively to Activision Blizzard, Inc. and its subsidiaries.
In connection with the 2008 business combination by and among the Company (then known as Activision, Inc.), Vivendi S.A. (“Vivendi”), and Vivendi Games, Inc., then an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Vivendi, we were renamed Activision Blizzard, Inc.
The common stock of Activision Blizzard is traded on The Nasdaq Stock Market under the ticker symbol “ATVI.”
Activision primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including full-game and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Activision products.
Blizzard primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including subscriptions, full-game, and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Blizzard products.
Blizzard also maintains a proprietary online gaming service, Blizzard Battle.net®, which facilitates digital distribution of Blizzard content and selected Activision content, online social connectivity, and the creation of user-generated content.
· the Activision Blizzard Distribution (“Distribution”) business, which consists of operations in Europe that provide warehousing, logistics, and sales distribution services to third-party publishers of interactive entertainment software, our own publishing operations, and manufacturers of interactive entertainment hardware.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2017, the beginning and ending cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash reported within our condensed consolidated statement of cash flows included restricted cash of $17 million and $10 million, respectively.
Refer to Note 2 contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 for a summary of our other significant accounting policies.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued new accounting guidance related to revenue recognition.
The new standard replaces all current U.S. GAAP guidance on this topic, eliminating all industry-specific guidance and providing a unified model to determine when and how revenue is recognized.
The core principle is that a company should recognize revenue upon the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
On January 1, 2018, we adopted the new accounting standard and related amendments (collectively, the “new revenue accounting standard”).


item3.txt
Primary currencies include euros, British pounds, Australian dollars, South Korean won, Chinese yuan, and Swedish krona.


item4.txt



