fls.txt
Activision Blizzard, Inc. generally uses words such as “outlook,” “forecast,” “will,” “could,” “should,” “would,” “to be,” “plan,” “plans,” “believes,” “may,” “might,” “expects,” “intends,” “intends as,” “anticipates,” “estimate,” “future,” “positioned,” “potential,” “project,” “remain,” “scheduled,” “set to,” “subject to,” “upcoming,” and other similar expressions to help identify forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
Includes the net effects of capitalization, deferral, and amortization of share-based compensation expense.
We develop and distribute content and services on video game consoles, personal computers (“PC”s), and mobile devices.
The terms “Activision Blizzard,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” and “our” are used to refer collectively to Activision Blizzard, Inc. and its subsidiaries.
In connection with the 2008 business combination by and among the Company (then known as Activision, Inc.), Vivendi S.A., and Vivendi Games, Inc., then an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Vivendi S.A., we were renamed Activision Blizzard, Inc.
In 2010, Activision entered into an exclusive relationship with Bungie, Inc. (“Bungie”) to publish games in the Destiny franchise.
Effective December 31, 2018, Activision and Bungie mutually agreed to terminate their publishing relationship related to the Destiny franchise.
As part of this termination, Activision agreed to transfer its publishing rights for the Destiny franchise to Bungie in exchange for cash and Bungie’s assumption of on-going customer obligations of Activision.
Blizzard primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including subscriptions, full-game, and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Blizzard products.
Blizzard also maintains a proprietary online gaming service, Blizzard Battle.net®, which facilitates digital distribution of Blizzard content and selected Activision content, online social connectivity, and the creation of user-generated content.
Blizzard also includes the activities of the Overwatch LeagueTM, the first major global professional esports league with city-based teams, and our Major League Gaming (“MLG”) business, which is responsible for various esports events and serves as a multi-platform network for Activision Blizzard esports content.
King’s games are free to play; however, players can acquire in-game items, either with virtual currency or real currency, and we continue to focus on in-game advertising as a growing source of additional revenue.
•the Activision Blizzard Distribution (“Distribution”) business, which consists of operations in Europe that provide warehousing, logistics, and sales distribution services to third-party publishers of interactive entertainment software, our own publishing operations, and manufacturers of interactive entertainment hardware.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S.


item3.txt
To mitigate our foreign currency risk resulting from our foreign currency-denominated monetary assets, liabilities, and earnings and our foreign currency risk related to functional currency-equivalent cash flows resulting from our intercompany transactions, we periodically enter into currency derivative contracts, principally forward contracts.
Additionally, $2 million of net realized but unrecognized gains are recorded within “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)” at September 30, 2019 for Cash Flow Hedges that had settled but were deferred and will be amortized into earnings, along with the associated hedged revenues.


item4.txt



