See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company,” and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. Leidos is a FORTUNE 500® science, engineering and information technology company that provides services and solutions in the defense, intelligence, civil and health markets. Leidos' international customers include foreign governments and their agencies, primarily located in Australia and the United Kingdom. Unless indicated otherwise, references to the "Company," "we," "us" and "our" refer collectively to Leidos Holdings, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. As a result, Leidos increased its controlling ownership in MSA from 47% to 88%. The Company consolidates the financial results for MSA into its unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. The consolidated balances of the Company’s VIE are not material to the Company’s unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for the periods presented. Intercompany accounts and transactions between consolidated companies have been eliminated in consolidation. Certain disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingencies at the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. Management evaluates these estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis, including those relating to estimated profitability of long-term contracts, indirect billing rates, allowances for doubtful accounts, inventories, fair value and impairment of intangible assets and goodwill, income taxes, stock-based compensation expense and contingencies. These estimates have been prepared by management on the basis of the most current and best available information; however, actual results could differ materially from those estimates.In the opinion of management, the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements reflect all adjustments, which consist of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation thereof. The results reported in these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the entire year. These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on February 23, 2018.Certain amounts in the prior year financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. Effective the beginning of fiscal 2018, the Company established a new CAS structure and revised its disclosure statements accordingly to reflect the related cost accounting practice changes. Consequently, $53 million and $133 million was reclassified from "Cost of revenues" to "Selling, general and administrative expenses" on the condensed consolidated statement of income for the quarter and nine months ended September 29, 2017, respectively. The core principle of ASC 606 is an entity should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of control for promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. ASC 606 further requires that companies disclose sufficient information to enable users of financial statements to understand the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. ASC 606 provided companies an option of two transition methods, the full retrospective method, in which case the standard would be applied to each prior reporting period presented and the cumulative effect of applying the standard would be recognized at the earliest period shown, or the modified retrospective method, in which case the cumulative effect of applying the standard would be recognized at the date of initial application. The ASU was effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017. The guidance was not applied to contracts that were complete at December 30, 2017, and the comparative information for the prior fiscal year has not been retrospectively adjusted. As a result of the adoption the Company recorded a $1 million decrease to its beginning accumulated deficit as the cumulative impact of adoption of the new revenue standard. The primary impact was on certain units-of-delivery contracts, as the Company previously recognized revenue at a point in time when the customer accepted delivery of the product or service. Under ASC 606, revenues on certain units-of-delivery contracts are now recognized using an over-time model. The adoption of ASC 606 did not have a significant impact on the Company's revenue recognition policy as revenues on substantially all of the Company's contracts continue to be recognized over time. In adopting ASC 606, the Company elected to use certain practical expedients permitted by the standard including using the portfolio approach where contracts with similar characteristics were assessed collectively to evaluate risk over the impact of ASC 606. The ASU is effective for public companies for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018, and should be applied on a modified retrospective basis. Early adoption is permitted. The Company early adopted the provisions of ASU 2017-12 using the modified retrospective method during the quarter ended March 30, 2018, and recorded a $3 million increase to accumulated other comprehensive income and a corresponding increase to beginning accumulated deficit for the cumulative ineffectiveness gains related to the cash flow hedges. This ASU is effective for all entities for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018, and should be applied either in the period of adoption or retrospectively to each period in which the effect of the change in the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate due to the Tax Act is recognized. Early adoption is permitted. The update is effective for public companies for annual and interim reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018, and should be adopted under the modified retrospective approach. In July 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-10, Codification Improvements to Topic 842, Leases, to add clarity to certain areas within ASU 2016-02 and ASU 2018-11 "Targeted Improvements", to add an additional and optional transition method to adopt the new leases standard by allowing recognition of a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the period of adoption. The effective date and transition requirements will be the same as ASU 2016-02.The Company plans to adopt the new lease accounting standards in fiscal 2019 using the proposed optional transition method and is currently in the process of reviewing lease and other service based contracts, implementing a new lease accounting and administration software solution, establishing new processes and internal controls. The potential impact on the consolidated financial statements will largely be based on the present value of future minimum lease payments, the amount of which will depend upon the population of leases in effect at the date of adoption. The Company also serves various state and local governments, foreign governments and U.S. commercial customers. In addition, the Company assesses contract modifications to determine whether changes to existing contracts should be accounted for as part of the original contract or as a separate contract. Contract modifications for the Company generally relate to changes in contract specifications and requirements and do not add distinct services, and therefore are accounted for as part of the original contract. If contract modifications add distinct goods or services and increase the contract value by an amount that reflects the standalone selling price, those modifications are accounted for as separate contracts.Most of the Company's contracts are comprised of multiple promises including the design and build of software-based systems, integration of hardware and software solutions, running and maintaining of IT infrastructure and procurement services. In all cases, the Company assesses if the multiple promises should be accounted for as separate performance obligations or combined into a single performance obligation. The Company generally separates multiple promises in a contract as separate performance obligations if those promises are distinct, both individually and in the context of the contract. The FAR provides guidance on types of costs that are allowable in establishing prices for goods and services provided to the U.S. government and its agencies. Each contract is competitively priced and bid separately. Pricing for non-U.S. government agencies and commercial customers is based on specific negotiations with each customer. The Company excludes any taxes collected or imposed when determining the transaction price.Certain of the Company's cost-plus and fixed-price contracts contain award fees, incentive fees or other provisions that may either increase or decrease the transaction price. These variable amounts generally are awarded upon achievement of certain performance metrics, program milestones or cost targets and can be based upon customer discretion. The Company estimates variable consideration at the most probable amount that it expects to be entitled to, based on the assessment of the contractual variable fee criteria, complexity of work and related risks, extent of customer discretion, amount of variable consideration received historically and the potential of significant reversal of revenue.The Company allocates the transaction price of a contract to its performance obligations in the proportion of its respective standalone selling prices. The standalone selling price of the Company's performance obligations is generally based on an expected cost-plus margin approach, in accordance with the FAR. For certain product sales, the Company uses prices from other standalone sales. For U.S. government contracts, continuous transfer of control to the customer is evidenced by clauses in the contract that allow the customer to unilaterally terminate the contract for convenience, pay for costs incurred plus a reasonable profit and take control of any work-in-process. Similarly, for non-U.S. government contracts, the customer typically controls the work-in-process as evidenced by rights to payment for work performed to date plus a reasonable profit to deliver products or services that do not have an alternate use to the Company. Anticipated losses on service based contracts are recognized as incurred. A performance obligation's EAC includes all direct costs such as materials, labor, subcontract costs, overhead, and a ratable portion of general and administrative costs. In addition, the Company includes in an EAC of a performance obligation future losses estimated to be incurred on onerous contracts, as and when known. For certain performance obligations, the Company is not primarily responsible for fulfilling the promise to provide the goods or service to the customer, does not have inventory risk and does not have discretion in establishing the price for the goods or service. In such cases, the Company recognizes revenue on a net basis.Contract costs generally include direct costs such as materials, labor, subcontract costs, and indirect costs identifiable with or allocable to a specific contract. Costs are expensed as incurred except for costs incurred during the transition phase of a new contract, which are capitalized and amortized on a straight-line basis over the expected life of that contract. The Company does not incur significant incremental costs to acquire contracts. The Company includes outstanding payments within "Cash and cash equivalents" and correspondingly increases "Accounts payable and accrued liabilities" on the condensed consolidated balance sheets. At September 28, 2018, and December 29, 2017, the Company included $46 million and $169 million, respectively, of outstanding payments within "Cash and cash equivalents. "ReceivablesThe Company's receivables include amounts billed and currently due from customers, amounts billable where the right to consideration is unconditional and amounts unbilled. Amounts billable and unbilled amounts are recognized at estimated realizable value and consist of costs and fees, substantially all of which are expected to be billed and collected generally within one year. Unbilled amounts also include rate variances that are billable upon negotiation of final indirect rates with the DCAA. FFP contracts are billed either based on milestones, which are the achievement of specific events as defined in the contract, or based on progress payments, which are interim payments up to a designated amount of costs incurred as work progresses. These withheld amounts are included within the Company's unbilled receivables and are billed upon contract completion or the occurrence of a specified event, and when negotiation of final indirect rates with the U.S. government is complete. Based on the Company's historical experience, the write-offs of retention balances have not been significant. When events or conditions indicate that amounts outstanding from customers may become uncollectible, an allowance is estimated and recorded. Remaining performance obligations do not include unexercised option periods and future potential task orders expected to be awarded under IDIQ contracts.As of September 28, 2018, the Company had $10.8 billion of remaining performance obligations, which are expected to be recognized as revenue in the amounts of $2.4 billion, $5.2 billion and $3.2 billion for the remainder of fiscal 2018, fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2020 and thereafter, respectively. Disaggregation of RevenuesThe Company disaggregates revenues by customer-type, contract-type and geographic location for each of its reportable segments. These categories represent how the nature, timing and uncertainty of revenues and cash flows are affected by the U.S. government procurement environment. Revenues from the U.S. government can be adversely impacted by spending caps or changes in budgetary priorities of the U.S. government, as well as delays in program start dates or the award of a contract. Failure to comply with U.S government laws and regulations applicable to international business, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or U.S. export control regulations, could have an adverse impact on the Company's business with the U.S. government.In some countries, there is an increased chance for economic, legal or political changes that may adversely affect the performance of the Company's services, sales of products or repatriation of profits. As a result, for each of the company’s contracts, the timing of revenue recognition, customer billings and cash collections results in a net contract asset or liability at the end of each reporting period.Contract assets include unbilled receivables, which is the amount of revenue recognized that exceeds the amount billed to the customer, where right to payment is not just subject to the passage of time. Contract assets also include transition costs and project assets. Transition costs represent costs that are incurred under certain service based contracts, usually at the beginning of the contract performance, to transition the services, employees and equipment from the customer or prior contractor. Project assets represent assets that are specific to contracts. Contract liabilities consist of deferred revenue. The increase in transition costs and project assets was primarily due to purchases on certain contracts partially offset by amortization. The increase in deferred revenue was primarily due to timing of advance payments from customers partially offset by revenue recognized during the period.During the quarter and nine months ended September 28, 2018, the Company recognized revenue of $37 million and $164 million, respectively, relating to amounts that were included as a contract liability at December 30, 2017.During the quarter and nine months ended September 28, 2018, the Company recognized $43 million and $83 million of amortization, respectively, related to its transition costs and project assets. The sale is expected to be completed during fiscal 2018 and is not expected to result in a loss. The Company has presented the associated assets and liabilities of the business as held for sale in the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheet as of September 28, 2018. During the quarter ended March 31, 2017, the Company collected $6 million of principal and interest on the Note. During the quarter ended June 30, 2017, Plainfield exercised the first of three one-year term extension options available under the original credit agreement, thereby extending the maturity date of the Note to July 24, 2018. Concurrent with this extension, the interest rate on the Note increased from 6% to 8%. Also, during the quarter ended June 30, 2017, Leidos and Plainfield entered into an amendment to the Note allowing Plainfield to defer up to $4 million of the interest and principal payments due in July 2017 and January 2018 until July 2018. The Plan envisioned raising new equity combined with reduction of Plainfield's debt. The net realizable value of the Note at December 29, 2017, was estimated to be approximately $40 million, compared to its carrying value of $73 million, including accrued interest. As a result, the Company recorded a $33 million impairment of its Note during the quarter ended December 29, 2017, which was presented within "Other income, net" in the Company's condensed consolidated statement of income.On July 12, 2018, Leidos and Plainfield entered into an additional amendment to the Note, allowing Plainfield to defer the maturity of the Note until the earlier of August 24, 2018, or the date Plainfield successfully closed on a refinancing agreement with a third party. Under the terms of the agreement, if Plainfield successfully refinanced the Note prior to August 24, 2018, Leidos would allow Plainfield to settle the Note in full for $40 million plus 50% of additional net proceeds obtained by Plainfield. On August 23, 2018, Leidos and Plainfield entered into an agreement with respect to the final payoff of the Note. As a result, the Company received proceeds of $40 million in full satisfaction of Plainfield’s obligations under the Note. These restructuring expenses have been recorded within Corporate and presented in "Integration and restructuring costs" on the condensed consolidated statements of income. Program and contract intangible assets are amortized over their respective estimated useful lives in proportion to the pattern of economic benefit based on expected future discounted cash flows. Customer relationships and backlog intangible assets are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. Software and technology intangible assets are amortized either on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives or over their respective estimated useful lives in proportion to the pattern of economic benefit based on expected future discounted cash flows, as deemed appropriate. On July 23, 2018, the Company entered into a Contract of Sale to sell and lease back one of its properties included within Corporate. The sale is expected to be completed during fiscal 2018 at which time the leaseback term will begin. The accounting guidance for fair value measurements requires that the Company maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs in determining fair value. The accounting guidance provides for the irrevocable option to elect, on a contract-by-contract basis, to measure certain financial assets and liabilities at fair value at inception of the contract and record any subsequent changes in fair value in earnings. The Company has not made fair value option elections on any of its financial assets and liabilities. The carrying amounts of the Company's financial instruments, other than derivatives, which include cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued expenses, are reasonable estimates of their related fair values. The Company did not have any assets or liabilities measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis at September 28, 2018.Note 13–Derivative Instruments The Company manages its risk to changes in interest rates through the use of derivative instruments. The Company does not hold derivative instruments for trading or speculative purposes. For fixed rate borrowings, the Company uses variable interest rate swaps, effectively converting fixed rate borrowings to variable rate borrowings. These swaps are designated as fair value hedges. For variable rate borrowings, the Company uses fixed interest rate swaps, effectively converting a portion of the variable interest rate payments to fixed interest rate payments. Under the terms of the interest rate swap agreements, the Company will receive semi-annual interest payments at the coupon rate of 4.45% and will pay variable interest based on the six-month LIBOR rate.The interest rate swaps were accounted for as a fair value hedge of the Notes and qualified for the shortcut method of hedge accounting, which allows for the assumption of no ineffectiveness. The fair value of the Notes is stated at an amount that reflects changes in the six-month LIBOR rate subsequent to the inception of the interest rate swaps through the reporting date. The objective of these instruments is to reduce variability in the forecasted interest payments of the Company's Variable Rate Loans, which are based on the LIBOR rate. Under the terms of the interest rate swap agreements, the Company will receive monthly variable interest payments based on the one-month LIBOR rate and will pay interest at a fixed rate. In February 2018, the Company entered into interest rate swap agreements to hedge the cash flows of an additional $250 million of its Variable Rate Loans. The interest rate swap agreements on $1.1 billion of the Company's Variable Rate Loans had a maturity date of December 2021 and a fixed interest rate of 1.08%. The interest rate swap agreements on $300 million and $250 million of the Company's Variable Rate Loans both had a maturity date of August 2022 and fixed interest rates of 1.66% and 2.59%, respectively. The net derivative gain of $60 million related to the discontinued cash flow hedge will continue to be reported within accumulated other comprehensive income and will be reclassified into earnings over the remaining life of the original hedge as the hedged variable rate debt impacts earnings.Additionally, in September 2018, the Company entered into new interest rate swap agreements to hedge the cash flows of $1.5 billion of the Company's Variable Rate Loans. These interest rate swap agreements have a maturity date of August 2025 and a fixed interest rate of 3.00%. The interest rate swap transactions were accounted for as cash flow hedges. A qualitative assessment of hedge effectiveness is performed on a quarterly basis, unless facts and circumstances indicate the hedge may no longer be highly effective. These amendments modified the margin range for the revolving credit facility and Term Loan A loans and extended their maturity dates by one year to August 2023. The amendments also extended the maturity date of Term Loan B by two years to August 2025 and delayed the scheduled increase in quarterly principal payments for Term Loan A by one year to March 2021. Additionally, the Senior Secured Leverage ratio calculation was amended and now excludes the lesser of $350 million and the Company's unrestricted cash and cash equivalents.In March 2018, Leidos amended the terms of its senior secured $1.1 billion Term Loan B. As a result, the margin on Term Loan B was reduced by 25 basis points to 1.75%. The repricing of the term loan became effective March 15, 2018.The interest rate on the Company's senior secured term loans is determined based on the LIBOR rate plus a margin. The margin for the Term Loan A loans ranges from 1.25% to 2.00%, depending on the Company's senior secured leverage ratio, and is computed on a quarterly basis. At September 28, 2018, the current margin on Term Loan A was 1.50%.The Company made required quarterly principal payments on its senior secured term loans of $15 million and $46 million during the quarter and nine months ended September 28, 2018, respectively, and $20 million and $61 million during the quarter and nine months ended September 29, 2017, respectively. In April 2018, the Company made a required debt prepayment of $10 million on its senior secured term loans. The prepayment was a result of the annual excess cash flow calculation clause in the Company's credit agreements. In addition to the required payments on its term loans, the Company prepaid $105 million and $130 million during the quarter and nine months ended September 29, 2017.The Company has a revolving credit facility providing up to $750 million in secured borrowing capacity at interest rates determined based upon the LIBOR rate plus a margin that is subject to step-down provisions based on the Company's senior secured leverage ratio. The maturity date of this credit facility is August 2023. As of September 28, 2018, and December 29, 2017, there were no borrowings outstanding under the credit facility. Amortization of the debt discount and deferred debt issuance costs related to the senior secured term loans and notes, unsecured notes and revolving credit facility was $2 million and $8 million for the quarter and nine months ended September 28, 2018, respectively, and $3 million and $10 million for the quarter and nine months ended September 29, 2017, respectively.The senior secured term loans and notes, unsecured notes and revolving credit facility are fully and unconditionally guaranteed and contain certain customary restrictive covenants, including among other things, restrictions on the Company's ability to create liens and enter into sale and leaseback transactions under certain circumstances. The Company expects to finalize its assessment of all provisional amounts within the allowed one-year measurement period. There are no material elements of the Tax Act for which the Company was unable to make a reasonable estimate. During the quarter ended September 28, 2018, the Company increased its estimate of the deemed repatriation tax and decreased its estimate of the limitation on the deductibility of certain executive compensation, resulting in a net increase to income tax expense of $4 million.For the quarter ended September 28, 2018, the effective tax rate was 13.5% compared to 31.9% for the quarter ended September 29, 2017. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to the Tax Act's reduction of the U.S. federal statutory rate and a release of the valuation allowance related to capital loss carryforward utilization.For the nine months ended September 28, 2018, the effective tax rate was 14.3% compared to 30.1% for the nine months ended September 29, 2017. As a result, "Interest expense, net," "Other income, net" and "Income tax expense," as reported in the condensed consolidated financial statements are not allocated to the Company's segments. Under U.S. Government Cost Accounting Standards, indirect costs including depreciation expense are collected in numerous indirect cost pools, which are then collectively allocated to the Company’s reportable segments based on a representative causal or beneficial relationship of the costs in the pool to the costs in the base. As such, the company does not separately disclose depreciation expense on the condensed consolidated statements of income.Asset information by segment is not a key measure of performance used by the CODM. Subsequent to the contracting officer's final decision, MSA, LMSI, and Lockheed Martin Corporation received notice from the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of Washington that the U.S. government had initiated a False Claims Act investigation into the facts surrounding this dispute, and each of MSA, LMSI and Lockheed Martin Corporation has produced information in response to Civil Investigative Demands from the U.S. Attorney's Office. MSA filed an appeal of the contracting officer's decision with the Civilian Board of Contract Appeals and that appeal is pending, but has been stayed pending resolution of the False Claims Act investigation. Subsequent to the filing of MSA's appeal, the contracting officer demanded that MSA reimburse the DoE in the amount of $64 million, which was his estimate of the profits earned during the period from 2010 to 2014 by LMSI. The DoE has deferred collection of $32 million of that demand, pending resolution of the appeal and without prejudice to MSA's position that it is not liable for any of the DOE's $64 million reimbursement claim. MSA and the other member of MSA have indicated that they believe if MSA incurs a liability in this matter, then Leidos Integrated Technology, LLC is responsible to MSA for the loss. Under the terms of the Separation Agreement, Lockheed Martin has agreed to indemnify the Company for 100% of any damages in excess of $38 million up to $64 million, and 50% of any damages in excess of $64 million, with respect to claims asserted against MSA related to this matter. The plaintiffs sought to recover from the Company and the individual defendants an unspecified amount of damages class members allegedly incurred by buying Leidos' stock at an inflated price. The District Court dismissed the plaintiffs' claims with prejudice and without leave to replead. The plaintiffs then appealed to the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, which issued an opinion affirming in part, and vacating in part, the District Court's ruling. The Company filed a petition for a writ of certiorari in the U.S. Supreme Court, which was granted on March 27, 2017. The District Court granted the Company's request to stay all proceedings, including discovery, pending the outcome at the Supreme Court. In September 2017, the parties engaged in mediation resulting in an agreement to settle all remaining claims for an immaterial amount to be paid by the Company. The amounts payable by the Company are covered by an insurance policy. The terms of the proposed settlement remain subject to court approval.Greek Government Contract In 2003, the Company entered into an FFP contract with the Hellenic Republic of Greece to provide a Command, Control, Communications, Coordination and Integration System. The Greek government disputed the contract balance owed to the Company and has not paid the Company's final invoice. In 2013, the Company received an arbitral award by the International Chamber of Commerce for €39 million, which has not been satisfied. In January 2017, the U.S. District Court granted an order to enforce the arbitration award and entered judgment in the Company's favor, converting the award to U.S. dollars. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit subsequently ruled that the district court judgment should instead reflect the currency in which it was originally awarded. Separately, the Greek government has sought to annul the award through separate litigation in the Greek courts, and such a challenge is currently pending. Based on the complex nature of this contractual situation and the difficulties encountered to date, significant uncertainties exist and the Company is unable to reliably estimate the ultimate outcome. Arbitration ProceedingThe Company is a party to an arbitration proceeding that is expected to commence in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018 involving a claim by Lockheed Martin for indemnification for $56 million in taxes attributable to deferred revenue recognized as a result of the Transactions. Based on the arguments advanced to date, the Company believes that the claim appears to be without merit and intends to vigorously defend itself in arbitration. The Company does not believe that a material loss is probable, and has therefore not recorded any liability for this matter. The court found that Apple willfully infringed the VirnetX patents at issue in the Apple I case and awarded enhanced damages, bringing the total award against Apple to over $343 million in pre-interest damages. The court subsequently awarded an additional sum of over $96 million for costs, attorneys' fees, and interest, bringing the total award to VirnetX in the Apple I case to over $439 million. Apple has filed an appeal of the judgment in the Apple I case with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. On April 10, 2018, a jury trial concluded in an additional patent infringement case brought by VirnetX against Apple, referred to as the Apple II case, in which the jury returned a verdict against Apple for infringement and awarded VirnetX damages in the amount of over $502 million. On April 11, 2018, in a second phase of the Apple II trial, the jury found Apple's infringement to be willful. On August 30, 2018, the federal trial court in the Eastern District of Texas entered a final judgment and rulings on post-trial motions in the Apple II case. The court affirmed the jury’s verdict of over $502 million and granted VirnetX’s motions for supplemental damages, a sunset royalty and royalty rate of $1.20 per infringing device, along with pre-judgment and post-judgment interest and costs. The court denied VirnetX’s motions for enhanced damages, attorneys’ fees, and an injunction. The court also denied Apple’s motions for judgment as a matter of law and for a new trial. An additional sum of over $93 million for costs and pre-judgment interest was subsequently agreed upon pursuant to a court order, bringing the total award to VirnetX in the Apple II case to over $595 million. Apple has filed an appeal of the judgment in the Apple II case with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.Under its agreements with VirnetX, the Company would receive 25% of the proceeds obtained by VirnetX after reduction for attorneys' fees and costs. However, the verdicts in these cases remain subject to appeal. Thus, no assurances can be given when or if the Company will receive any proceeds in connection with these jury awards. In addition, if the Company receives any proceeds, the Company is required to pay a royalty to the customer who paid for the development of the technology. The Company does not have any assets or liabilities recorded in connection with this matter as of September 28, 2018.Government Investigations and ReviewsThe Company is routinely subject to investigations and reviews relating to compliance with various laws and regulations with respect to its role as a contractor to federal, state and local government customers and in connection with performing services in countries outside of the United States. Adverse findings could have a material effect on the Company's business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows due to its reliance on government contracts.During the quarter and nine months ended September 28, 2018, pursuant to the resolution of certain government accounting matters, including audits by the DCAA, the Company recorded a net reduction of $8 million and $14 million, respectively, to its accrued liabilities.Indirect cost audits by the DCAA remain open for fiscal 2016 and subsequent years for Leidos, Inc., and fiscal 2012 and subsequent years for Leidos Innovations. Although the Company has recorded contract revenues based upon an estimate of costs that the Company believes will be approved upon final audit or review, the Company cannot predict the outcome of any ongoing or future audits or reviews and adjustments, and if future adjustments exceed the Company's estimates, its profitability may be adversely affected. The Company also has outstanding surety bonds with net exposure of $123 million, principally related to performance and subcontractor payment bonds on the Company's contracts. The outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds have various terms with the majority expiring over the next four fiscal years.On January 24, 2018, the Company entered into a lease agreement with its current lessor for office space in a building to be constructed which will function as the Company's new corporate headquarters in Reston, Virginia. The Company will occupy the space for an initial term of 148 months and rent expense will be $11 million for the first lease year, with an annual rent expense increase of 2.5%. The Company currently expects construction to be completed and to take occupancy of the building by April 1, 2020, at which point the Company's lease agreements for its current corporate headquarters will terminate.28Table of ContentsLEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.Item 2. The following discussion contains forward-looking statements, including statements regarding our intent, belief, or current expectations with respect to, among other things, trends affecting our financial condition or results of operations, backlog, our industry and government budgets and spending. Such statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors. Some of these factors include, but are not limited to, the risk factors set forth in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, as updated periodically through our subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. Due to such uncertainties and risks, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. We do not undertake any obligation to update these factors or to publicly announce the results of any changes to our forward-looking statements due to future events or developments.Unless indicated otherwise, references in this report to the "Company," "we," "us" and "our" refer collectively to Leidos and its consolidated subsidiaries. OverviewWe are a FORTUNE 500® science, engineering and information technology company that provides services and solutions in the defense, intelligence, civil and health markets. Additionally, we separately present the costs associated with corporate functions as Corporate.Business Environment and Trends U.S. Government MarketsDuring the three and nine months ended September 28, 2018, we generated approximately 85% of our total revenues from contracts with the U.S. government. The appropriations legislation passed earlier in the year suspended budget caps and included a two-year budget agreement that provided $300 billion in sequestration relief for defense and non-defense spending. Defense programs saw additional funding of $80 billion and $85 billion in GFY 2018 and GFY 2019, respectively, and non-defense spending increased by $63 billion and $68 billion in GFY 2018 and GFY 2019, respectively, over the caps established in the Budget Control Act of 2011. The legislation also suspends the debt ceiling until March 2019. In September 2018, Congress passed and the President signed a second consolidated appropriations bill funding the Departments of Defense, Labor and Health and Human Services for the full GFY 2019. Earlier in the year, funding for the Departments of Veterans Affairs and Energy as well as funding for Congress were also enacted. All were funded at increased levels from the previous year. There are now seven appropriations bills operating under a continuing resolution, which will expire on December 7, 2018. Congress must act before that date in order for those seven departments to continue operating, either by passing appropriations for the remainder of GFY 2019 or by passing another continuing resolution.29Table of ContentsLEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.International MarketsSales to customers in international markets represented approximately 9% of total revenues for both the three and nine months ended September 28, 2018. Our international customers include foreign governments and their agencies, primarily located in the U.K. and Australia. Our international business increases our exposure to international markets and the associated international regulatory and geopolitical risks.Recent changes in international trade policies, including higher tariffs on imported goods and materials, may increase our procurement costs of certain IT hardware used both on our contracts and for internal use. However, we expect to recover certain portions of these higher tariffs through our cost-plus contracts. On January 18, 2018, the final working capital amount of $105 million was paid to Lockheed Martin.We incurred integration costs of $4 million and $26 million during the three and nine months ended September 28, 2018, respectively, and $21 million and $55 million during the three and nine months ended September 29, 2017, respectively. We recognized restructuring expenses of $3 million and $6 million during the three and nine months ended September 28, 2018, respectively, and $6 million and $25 million during the three and nine months ended September 29, 2017, respectively, related to this program. Key Performance MeasuresThe primary financial performance measures we use to manage our business and monitor results of operations are revenue, operating income, cash flows from operations and diluted earnings per share. The adverse foreign currency impact was primarily attributable to our Australia business in the Defense Solutions segment.The decrease in revenues in constant currency for the nine months ended September 28, 2018, was 1.6%, as compared to an actual decrease in revenues of 1.4%. This calculation is performed for all subsidiaries where the functional currency is not the U.S. dollar.31Table of ContentsLEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.The increase in operating income for the nine months ended September 28, 2018, as compared to the nine months ended September 29, 2017, was primarily due to lower amortization, an increase in new awards, higher net profit write-ups and a decrease in bad debt expense, partially offset by a net decrease in program volumes. The decrease in operating income for the three months ended September 28, 2018, as compared to the three months ended September 29, 2017, was primarily due to the completion of certain contracts.The decrease in operating income for the nine months ended September 28, 2018, as compared to the nine months ended September 29, 2017, was primarily due to the completion of certain contracts, partially offset by a net increase in program volumes. Backlog estimates are subject to change and may be affected by factors including modifications of contracts and foreign currency movements. In addition, we have a secured revolving credit facility which can provide up to $750 million in additional borrowing, if required. During the nine months ended September 28, 2018, there were no borrowings outstanding under the credit facility and we were in compliance with related financial covenants.At September 28, 2018, and December 29, 2017, we had outstanding debt of $3.0 billion and $3.1 billion, respectively. We made required quarterly principal payments on our senior secured term loans of $15 million and $46 million during the three and nine months ended September 28, 2018, respectively, and $20 million and $61 million during the three and nine months ended September 29, 2017, respectively. In April 2018, we made a required debt prepayment of $10 million on our senior secured term loans. The prepayment was a result of the annual excess cash flow calculation clause in our credit agreements. In addition to the required payments on our term loans, we prepaid $105 million and $130 million during the three and nine months ended September 29, 2017, respectively. The notes outstanding as of September 28, 2018, contain financial covenants and customary restrictive covenants. We were in compliance with all covenants as of September 28, 2018. We paid dividends of $48 million and $151 million during the three and nine months ended September 28, 2018, respectively, and $48 million and $150 million during the three and nine months ended September 29, 2017, respectively.For the next 12 months, we anticipate that we will be able to meet our liquidity needs, including servicing our debt, through cash generated from operations, available cash balances and, if needed, borrowings from our revolving credit facility. Net cash used in financing activities increased $53 million for the nine months ended September 28, 2018, when compared to the prior year, primarily due to $162 million of stock repurchases under the share repurchase program, $23 million of cash paid related to a tax indemnification liability and payments for a non-controlling equity interest acquired. This was partially offset by $135 million of lower debt payments.Off-Balance Sheet ArrangementsWe have outstanding performance guarantees and cross-indemnity agreements in connection with certain aspects of our business. We also have letters of credit outstanding principally related to performance guarantees on contracts and surety bonds outstanding principally related to performance and payment bonds as described in "Note 21–Commitments" of the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements contained within this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. These arrangements have not had, and management does not believe it is likely that they will in the future have, a material effect on our liquidity, capital resources, operations or financial condition. Commitments and ContingenciesWe are subject to a number of reviews, investigations, claims, lawsuits, other uncertainties and future obligations related to our business. For a discussion of these items, see "Note 20–Contingencies" and "Note 21–Commitments" of the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements contained within this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.Critical Accounting PoliciesThere were no material changes to our critical accounting policies, estimates or judgments, other than our revenue recognition policy, that occurred in the period covered by this report from those discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 29, 2017.34Table of ContentsLEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.Revenue RecognitionOur revenues from contracts with customers are from offerings including cybersecurity; data analytics; enterprise IT modernization; operations and logistics; sensors, collection and phenomenology; software development; and systems engineering, primarily with the U.S. government and its agencies. We also serve various state and local governments, foreign governments and U.S. commercial customers. In addition, we assess contract modifications to determine whether the changes to existing contracts should be accounted for as part of the original contract or as a separate contract. Contract modifications for us generally relate to changes in contract specifications and requirements and do not add distinct services, and therefore are accounted for as part of the original contract. If contract modifications add distinct goods or services and increase the contract value by an amount that reflects the standalone selling price, those modifications are accounted for as separate contracts.Most of our contracts are comprised of multiple promises including the design and build of software-based systems, integration of hardware and software solutions, running and maintaining of IT infrastructure and procurement services. In all cases, we assess if the multiple promises should be accounted for as separate performance obligations or combined into a single performance obligation. We generally separate multiple promises in a contract as separate performance obligations if those promises are distinct, both individually and in the context of the contract. The FAR provides guidance on types of costs that are allowable in establishing prices for goods and services provided to the U.S. government and its agencies. Each contract is competitively priced and bid separately. Pricing for non-U.S. government agencies and commercial customers is based on specific negotiations with each customer. We exclude any taxes collected or imposed when determining the transaction price.Certain of our cost-plus and fixed-price contracts contain award fees, incentive fees or other provisions that may either increase or decrease the transaction price. These variable amounts generally are awarded upon achievement of certain performance metrics, program milestones or cost targets and can be based upon customer discretion. We estimate variable consideration at the most probable amount that we expect to be entitled to, based on the assessment of the contractual variable fee criteria, complexity of work and related risks, extent of customer discretion, amount of variable consideration received historically and the potential of significant reversal of revenue.We allocate the transaction price of a contract to our performance obligations in the proportion of its respective standalone selling prices. The standalone selling price of our performance obligations is generally based on an expected cost-plus margin approach, in accordance with the FAR. For certain product sales, we use prices from other standalone sales. Substantially all of our contracts do not contain a significant financing component, which would require an adjustment to the transaction price of the contract.We recognize revenue on our service based contracts primarily over time as there is continuous transfer of control to the customer over the duration of the contract as we perform the promised services. For U.S. government contracts, continuous transfer of control to the customer is evidenced by clauses in the contract that allow the customer to unilaterally terminate the contract for convenience, pay for costs incurred plus a reasonable profit and take control of any work-in-process. Similarly, for non-U.S. government contracts, the customer typically controls the work-in-process as evidenced by rights to payment for work performed to date plus a reasonable profit to deliver products or services that do not have an alternate use to us. Anticipated losses on service based contracts are recognized as incurred. A performance obligation's EAC includes all direct costs such as materials, labor, subcontract costs, overhead, and a ratable portion of general and administrative costs. In addition, we include in an EAC of a performance obligation future losses estimated to be incurred on onerous contracts, as and when known. For certain performance obligations, we are not primarily responsible for fulfilling the promise to provide the goods or service to the customer, do not have inventory risk and do not have discretion in establishing the price for the goods or service. In such cases, we recognize revenue on a net basis.Contract costs generally include direct costs such as materials, labor, subcontract costs, and indirect costs identifiable with or allocable to a specific contract. Costs are expensed as incurred except for costs incurred during the transition phase of a new contract, which are capitalized and amortized on a straight-line basis over the expected life of that contract. We do not incur significant incremental costs to acquire contracts. Contract costs incurred for U.S. government contracts, including indirect costs, are subject to audit and adjustment by the Defense Contract Audit Agency. Recently Adopted and Issued Accounting StandardsFor a discussion of these items, see "Note 2–Accounting Standards" of the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements contained within this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.Item 3. The objective of these instruments is to reduce variability in the forecasted interest payments of our variable rate senior secured term loans.For further discussion of our market risk associated with interest rate risk and foreign currency risk as of December 29, 2017, see "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk" in Part II of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 29, 2017.Item 4. Based upon that evaluation, our principal executive officer and principal financial officer have concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures are effective to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports that we file or submit under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. These disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports that we file or submit under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our principal executive officer and our principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.Changes in Internal Control Over Financial ReportingThere have been no changes in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred in the quarterly period covered by this report that materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. 36Table of ContentsLEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.PART II—OTHER INFORMATIONItem 1. Legal Proceedings.We have furnished information relating to legal proceedings, and any investigations and reviews that we are involved with in "Note 20–Contingencies" of the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements contained within this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.Item 1A. Risk Factors.There were no material changes from the risk factors disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 29, 2017. Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds. The shares may be repurchased from time to time in one or more open market repurchases or privately negotiated transactions, including accelerated share repurchase transactions. The actual timing, number and value of shares repurchased under the program will depend on a number of factors, including the market price of our common stock, general market and economic conditions, applicable legal requirements, compliance with the terms of our outstanding indebtedness and other considerations. There is no assurance as to the number of shares that will be repurchased, and the repurchase program may be suspended or discontinued at any time at our Board of Directors' discretion. This share repurchase authorization replaces the previous share repurchase authorization announced in December 2013. Item 3. Defaults Upon Senior Securities.None.Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures.Not applicable.Item 5. Other Information.None.37Table of ContentsLEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.Item 6. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on August 28, 2018. 10.2 Second Amendment, dated August 22, 2018, to the Credit Agreement dated as of August 16, 2016, by and among Leidos, Inc., as borrower, Leidos Holdings, Inc., Citibank, N.A., as administrative agent and the other lending institutions party to the amendment. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on August 28, 2018. 31.1 Certification of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 31.2 Certification of Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 32.1 Certification of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 32.2 Certification of Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.