See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company,” and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS35ITEM 3. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK50ITEM 4. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS53ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS53ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS53ITEM 5. OTHER INFORMATION53ITEM 6. All statements other than statements of historical facts may be forward-looking statements. When used in this Report, the words “believe”, “expect”, “could”, “may”, “would”, “will”, “trend” and similar words are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Examples of forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements that relate to the Company’s future prospects, developments and business strategies.Many factors and uncertainties relating to our operations and business environment, all of which are difficult to predict and many of which are outside of our control, influence whether any forward-looking statements can or will be achieved. We caution you that the important factors referenced above may not contain all of the factors that are important to you. Our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Report or as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update our forward-looking statements.3Table of ContentsPART I — FINANCIAL INFORMATIONITEM 1. At September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, there were no significant VIEs which required consolidation. The Company consolidates acquisitions as of the date in which the Company has obtained a controlling financial interest. Intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation. Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the 2018 presentation. The consolidated financial statements for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 and as of September 30, 2018 are unaudited, and in the opinion of management, include all normal recurring adjustments that are necessary to present fairly the results for interim periods. This guidance is effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2019 and early adoption is permitted. Companies are required to adopt this guidance either retrospectively or by prospectively applying the guidance to all implementation costs incurred after the date of adoption. The Company is in the process of evaluating when it will adopt this guidance and the potential effects this guidance will have on its consolidated financial statements. Disclosure requirements for defined benefit plans - In August 2018, the FASB issued accounting guidance which modifies disclosure requirements for employers that sponsor defined benefit pension or other postretirement plans by removing, modifying and adding certain disclosures. This guidance is required to be applied retrospectively and is effective for periods ending after December 15, 2020, with early adoption permitted. The Company expects to adopt this guidance effective December 31, 2018. Disclosure requirements for fair value measurement - In August 2018, the FASB issued accounting guidance which modifies disclosure requirements for fair value measurements by removing, modifying and adding certain disclosures. This guidance is effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2019. Companies are permitted to early adopt the removed or modified disclosures and delay adoption of added disclosures until the effective date. Companies are required to adopt the guidance for certain added disclosures prospectively for only the most recent interim or annual period presented in the initial fiscal year of adoption and all other amendments retrospectively to all periods presented upon their effective date. The Company is in the process of evaluating when it will adopt this guidance and the potential effects this guidance will have on its disclosures. The provisional amounts can be updated within a one year measurement period with changes recorded as a component of income tax expense during the reporting period. This guidance was effective upon issuance. The guidance is effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2018, with early adoption permitted. The Company is in the process of evaluating the impacts this guidance will have on its consolidated financial statements and, at this time, does not expect the impacts to be material.Derivatives and hedging - In August 2017, the FASB issued accounting guidance to improve and simplify existing guidance to allow companies to better reflect their risk management activities in the financial statements. The guidance expands the ability to account for nonfinancial and financial risk components under hedge accounting and eliminates the requirement to separately measure and recognize hedge ineffectiveness and eases requirements of an entity’s assessment of hedge effectiveness. This guidance is effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2018 and early adoption is permitted. The Company currently does not account for its foreign currency derivative contracts under hedge accounting and does not expect the standard to have an impact to the Company. Under this guidance, the service cost component is required to be reported in the same line item as other compensation costs arising from services rendered by employees during the period. The other components of the net periodic benefit costs are required to be presented in the consolidated statement of operations separately from the service cost component and outside of operating income. This guidance is required to be applied retrospectively and is effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2017. The Company adopted this guidance effective January 1, 2018, which did not result in a material impact on the Company’s current year consolidated financial statements. The Company did not apply this guidance retrospectively, as the impact was de minimis to the prior year consolidated financial statements. Restricted cash - In November 2016, the FASB issued accounting guidance to address diversity in the classification and presentation of changes in restricted cash on the consolidated statement of cash flows. Under this guidance, companies are required to present restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents with cash and cash equivalents when reconciling the beginning-of-period and end-of-period amounts shown on the consolidated statement of cash flows. This guidance is required to be applied retrospectively and is effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2017. The Company adopted this guidance effective January 1, 2018. In accordance with the adoption of this standard, the Company includes restricted cash, which currently consists primarily of restricted cash for litigation settlement and restricted security deposits held for customers in its reconciliation of beginning-of-period and end-of-period amounts shown on the consolidated statement of cash flows.Intra-entity asset transfers - In October 2016, the FASB issued accounting guidance to simplify the accounting for income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory. Under this guidance, companies will be required to recognize the income tax consequences of an intra-entity asset transfer when the transfer occurs. This guidance must be applied on a modified retrospective basis through a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the period of adoption. The guidance is effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2017. The Company adopted this guidance effective January 1, 2018. See the section in this note entitled Cumulative Effect of the Adopted Accounting Pronouncements for a summary of the cumulative impact of adopting this standard as of January 1, 2018.Leases - In February 2016, the FASB issued accounting guidance that will change how companies account for and present lease arrangements. This guidance requires companies to recognize leased assets and liabilities for both financing and operating leases. This guidance is effective for periods after December 15, 2018 and early adoption is permitted. Companies are required to adopt the guidance using a modified retrospective approach by recognizing a cumulative effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings. In July 2018, the FASB provided companies with an option to apply the modified retrospective approach as of either the date of adoption or as of the earliest date presented. The Company is in the process of evaluating the potential effects this guidance will have on its consolidated financial statements.Revenue recognition - In May 2014, the FASB issued accounting guidance that provides a single, comprehensive revenue recognition model for all contracts with customers and supersedes most of the existing revenue recognition requirements. Under this guidance, an entity should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The Company adopted this guidance effective January 1, 2018 under the modified retrospective transition method, applying the standard to contracts not completed as of January 1, 2018 and considered the aggregate amount of modifications. See the section in this note entitled Cumulative Effect of the Adopted Accounting Pronouncements for a summary of the cumulative impact of adopting this standard as of January 1, 2018.This new revenue guidance impacts the timing of certain customer incentives recognized in the Company’s consolidated statement of operations, as they are recognized over the life of the contract. Previously, such incentives were recognized when earned by the customer. The new revenue guidance also impacts the Company’s accounting recognition for certain market development fund contributions and expenditures. The prior periods have not been restated and have been reported under the accounting standards in effect for those periods. During the second quarter of 2018, there was an adjustment to the impact of adopting the new revenue standard which increased liabilities $88 million with a corresponding tax-effected adjustment to retained earnings. In addition, certain reclassifications were made primarily between other assets, accrued expenses, and other liabilities. These revisions did not result in a material impact to the balances at January 1, 2018 or the consolidated financial statements for the period ended March 31, 2018. Acquisitions In 2017, the Company acquired businesses for total consideration of $1.5 billion. The Company has finalized the purchase accounting for businesses acquired during the nine months ended September 30, 2017. Revenue from contracts with customers is recognized when services are performed in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled to in exchange for those services. Revenue recognized from domestic assessments, cross-border volume fees and transaction processing are derived from Mastercard’s payment network services. Revenue is generated by charging fees to issuers, acquirers and other stakeholders for providing switching services, as well as by assessing customers based primarily on the dollar volume of activity, or gross dollar volume, on the cards and other devices that carry the Company’s brands. Revenue is generally derived from transactional information accumulated by Mastercard’s systems or reported by customers. In addition, the Company recognizes revenue from other payment-related products and services in the period in which the related transactions occur or services are performed. The price structure for Mastercard’s products and services is dependent on the nature of volumes, types of transactions and type of products and services offered to customers. Revenue from domestic assessments are recorded as revenue in the period it is earned, which is when the related volume is generated on the cards or other devices that carry the Company’s brand.Cross-border volume fees are charged to issuers and acquirers based on the dollar volume of activity on cards and other devices that carry the Company’s brands where the acquirer country and the issuer country are different. Revenue from cross-border volume are recorded as revenue in the period it is earned, which is when the related volume is generated on the cards or other devices that carry the Company’s brand.Transaction processing revenue is recognized for both domestic and cross-border transactions in the period in which the related transactions occur. ◦Clearing is the determination and exchange of financial transaction information between issuers and acquirers after a transaction has been successfully conducted at the point of interaction. Transactions are cleared among customers through Mastercard’s central and regional processing systems. ◦Settlement is facilitating the exchange of funds between parties. •Connectivity fees are charged to issuers, acquirers and other financial institutions for network access, equipment and the transmission of authorization and settlement messages. These fees are based on the size of the data being transmitted and the number of connections to the Company’s network. •Other processing fees include issuer and acquirer processing solutions; payment gateways for e-commerce merchants; mobile gateways for mobile initiated transactions; and safety and security.Other revenues consist of value added service offerings that are typically sold with the Company’s payment service offerings and are recognized in the period in which the related services are performed or transactions occur. Rebates and incentives are recorded as a reduction of revenue when revenue is recognized, ratably over the contractual term. The Company’s customers are billed quarterly or more frequently dependent upon the nature of the performance obligation and the underlying contractual terms. The Company does not offer extended payment terms to customers. Collection for these services typically occurs over the contractual term. These contract assets are included in prepaid expenses and other current assets and other assets on the consolidated balance sheet at September 30, 2018 in the amounts of $36 million and $77 million, respectively. The Company did not have contract assets at December 31, 2017.The Company defers the recognition of revenue when consideration has been received prior to the satisfaction of performance obligations. As these performance obligations are satisfied, revenue is subsequently recognized. Deferred revenue is primarily derived from consulting, data analytic and research services. Deferred revenue is included in other current liabilities and other liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet at September 30, 2018 in the amounts of $260 million and $111 million, respectively. The comparable amounts included in other current liabilities and other liabilities at December 31, 2017 were $230 million and $17 million, respectively. As a payment network service provider, the Company provides its customers with continuous access to its payment network and stands ready to provide transaction processing and related services over the contractual term. Consideration is variable based upon the number of transactions processed and volume activity on the cards and other devices that carry the Company’s brands. The Company has elected the optional exemption to not disclose the remaining performance obligations related to its payment network services. The Company also earns revenues from other value added services comprised of bank account-based payment services, consulting and research fees, loyalty programs and other payment-related products and services. At September 30, 2018, the estimated aggregate consideration allocated to unsatisfied performance obligations for these other value added services is $940 million, which is expected to be recognized through 2022. The estimated remaining performance obligations related to these revenues are subject to change and are affected by several factors, including termination clauses, modifications and adjustments for currency and are not expected to be material to any future annual period.Note 4. Cash, Cash Equivalents, Restricted Cash and Restricted Cash EquivalentsThe Company’s cash and cash equivalents include certain investments with daily liquidity and with a maturity of three months or less from the date of purchase. The funds continue to be restricted for payments until the litigation matter is resolved. The majority of collateral for settlement is in the form of standby letters of credit and bank guarantees which are not recorded on the consolidated balance sheet. Additionally, the Company holds cash deposits and certificates of deposit from certain customers of Mastercard as collateral for settlement of their transactions, which are recorded as assets on the consolidated balance sheet. These assets are fully offset by corresponding liabilities included on the consolidated balance sheet. These security deposits are typically held for the duration of the agreement with the customers.•Other restricted cash balances - The Company has other restricted cash balances which include contractually restricted deposits, as well as cash balances that are restricted based on the Company’s intention with regards to usage. These funds are classified on the consolidated balance sheet within prepaid expenses and other currents assets and other assets.The following table provides a reconciliation of cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents reported within the statement of financial position that total to the beginning of period and end of period amounts shown in the statement of cash flows. The fair value of the Company’s available-for-sale municipal securities, government and agency securities, corporate securities and asset-backed securities are based on observable inputs such as quoted prices, benchmark yields and issuer spreads for similar assets in active markets and are therefore included in Level 2 of the Valuation Hierarchy. 2 The Company’s foreign currency derivative asset and liability contracts have been classified within Level 2 of the Valuation Hierarchy as the fair value is based on observable inputs such as broker quotes relating to foreign currency exchange rates for similar derivative instruments. 3 The Company has a nonqualified deferred compensation plan where assets are invested primarily in mutual funds held in a rabbi trust, which is restricted for payments to participants of the plan. The Company has elected to use the fair value option for these mutual funds, which are measured using quoted prices of identical instruments in active markets and are included in prepaid expenses and other current assets on the consolidated balance sheet. 4 The deferred compensation liabilities are measured at fair value based on the quoted prices of instruments identical to the investment vehicles selected by the participants. At September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the carrying value and fair value of settlement and other guarantee liabilities were not material and accordingly are not included in the Valuation Hierarchy table above. Settlement and other guarantee liabilities are classified within Level 3 of the Valuation Hierarchy as their valuation requires substantial judgment and estimation of factors that are not observable in the market. Held-to-maturity securities are not measured at fair value on a recurring basis and are not included in the Valuation Hierarchy table above. At September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the Company held $323 million and $700 million, respectively, of held-to-maturity securities due within one year. The cost of these securities approximates fair value. Nonmarketable Equity InvestmentsThe Company’s nonmarketable equity investments are measured at fair value at initial recognition and for impairment testing. In addition, nonmarketable equity investments accounted for under the cost method of accounting are adjusted for changes resulting from observable price changes in orderly transactions for the identical or similar investments of the same issuer. Nonmarketable equity investments are classified within Level 3 of the Valuation Hierarchy due to the absence of quoted market prices, the inherent lack of liquidity, and the fact that inputs used to measure fair value are unobservable and require management’s judgment. The Company uses discounted cash flows and market assumptions to estimate the fair value of its nonmarketable equity investments when certain events or circumstances indicate that impairment may exist. These debt instruments are not traded in active markets and are classified within Level 2 of the Valuation Hierarchy. At December 31, 2017, the carrying value and fair value of long-term debt was $5.4 billion and $5.7 billion, respectively. Other Financial InstrumentsCertain financial instruments are carried on the consolidated balance sheet at cost, which approximates fair value due to their short-term, highly liquid nature. These instruments include cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash, accounts receivable, settlement due from customers, restricted security deposits held for customers, accounts payable, settlement due to customers and other accrued liabilities.Non-Financial InstrumentsCertain assets are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis for purposes of initial recognition and impairment testing. The Company’s non-financial assets measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis include property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets. These assets are subject to fair value adjustments in certain circumstances, such as when there is evidence of impairment. This contingent consideration liability is included in other current liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet and is classified within Level 3 of the Valuation Hierarchy due to the absence of quoted market prices. The municipal securities are primarily comprised of state tax-exempt bonds and are diversified across states and sectors. Government and agency securities include U.S. government bonds, U.S. government sponsored agency bonds and foreign government bonds with similar credit quality to that of the U.S. government bonds. Corporate securities are comprised of commercial paper and corporate bonds. The asset-backed securities are investments in bonds which are collateralized primarily by automobile loan receivables. Gross realized gains and losses are recorded within investment income on the consolidated statement of operations. The gross realized gains and losses from the sales of available-for-sale securities for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 were not significant. Note 7. Costs directly related to entering into such an agreement are generally deferred and amortized over the life of the agreement. Amounts to be paid for these incentives and the related liability were included in accrued expenses and other liabilities. The increase in customer and merchant incentives and the decrease in prepaid income taxes at September 30, 2018 from December 31, 2017 are primarily due to the impact from the adoption of the new accounting standards pertaining to revenue recognition and intra-entity asset transfers, respectively. These amounts are not included in the accrued expenses table above and are separately reported as accrued litigation on the consolidated balance sheet. The net proceeds from the issuance of the 2018 USD Notes, after deducting the original issue discount, underwriting discount and offering expenses, were $991 million. The net proceeds, after deducting the original issue discount, underwriting discount and offering expenses, from the issuance of the 2016 USD Notes, the 2015 Euro Notes and the 2014 USD Notes, were $1.969 billion, $1.723 billion and $1.484 billion, respectively. None of the outstanding debt, described above, is subject to financial covenants and may be redeemed in whole, or in part, at the Company’s option at any time for a specified make-whole amount. These notes are senior unsecured obligations and would rank equally with any future unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness. The proceeds of the notes are to be used for general corporate purposes. In October 2017, the Company extended the Credit Facility for an additional year to October 2022. The extension did not result in any material changes to the terms and conditions of the Credit Facility. The facility fee and borrowing cost under the Credit Facility are based upon the Company’s credit rating. The Company was in compliance in all material respects with the covenants of the Credit Facility at September 30, 2018. The majority of Credit Facility lenders are customers or affiliates of customers of the Company.Borrowings under the Commercial Paper Program and the Credit Facility are used to provide liquidity for general corporate purposes, including providing liquidity in the event of one or more settlement failures by the Company’s customers. The Company may borrow and repay amounts under the Commercial Paper Program and Credit Facility from time to time. Pursuant to the shelf registration statement, the Company may from time to time offer to sell debt securities, guarantees of debt securities, preferred stock, Class A common stock, depository shares, purchase contracts, units or warrants in one or more offerings.Note 10. Stockholders’ EquityThe Company’s Board of Directors has approved share repurchase programs authorizing the Company to repurchase its Class A common stock. These programs become effective after the completion of the previously authorized share repurchase program. During the nine months ended September 30, 2017, the decrease in other comprehensive loss related to foreign currency translation adjustments was driven primarily by the appreciation of the euro. The LTIP is a shareholder-approved plan that permits the grant of various types of equity awards to employees. The Company used the Black-Scholes option pricing model to estimate the grant-date fair value of stock options and calculated the expected term and the expected volatility based on historical Mastercard information. The expected term of stock options granted in 2018 was determined to be six years, while the expected volatility was determined to be 19.7%.Vesting of the shares underlying the restricted stock units and performance stock units will generally occur three years after the date of grant. The fair value of restricted stock units is determined and fixed on the grant date based on the Company’s Class A common stock price, adjusted for the exclusion of dividend equivalents. The Monte Carlo simulation valuation model was used to determine the grant-date fair value of performance stock units granted.Compensation expense is recorded net of estimated forfeitures over the shorter of the vesting period or the date the individual becomes eligible to retire under the LTIP. The lower effective tax rates, versus the comparable periods in 2017, were primarily due to a lower enacted statutory tax rate in the United States and a more favorable geographic mix of taxable earnings. These benefits were partially offset by other aspects of the U.S. Tax Reform for which a tax benefit is no longer recognized, including a U.S. foreign tax credit benefit for the repatriation of current year foreign earnings and the domestic production activities deduction. The lower effective tax rates for the periods were also attributable to $65 million of discrete deferred tax benefits, relating primarily to provisions for legal matters in the United States, which will be realized in the years during which payments are made. Additionally, the lower effective tax rate for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was attributable to discrete benefits related to share-based payments.On December 22, 2017, the U.S. passed comprehensive tax legislation which, among other things, reduces the U.S. corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% in 2018. While the effective date for most of the U.S. Tax Reform provisions was January 1, 2018, GAAP required the resulting tax effects to be accounted for in the reporting period of enactment. Also, in December 2017, the SEC staff issued guidance which allows registrants to record provisional amounts for certain aspects of the U.S. Tax Reform during a measurement period, which is not to extend beyond one year. Consistent with the SEC guidance, the Company was able to make reasonable estimates and had recorded provisional amounts of $629 million related to the Transition Tax, which is payable over eight years, $157 million charge for the remeasurement of the Company’s net deferred tax asset in the U.S. and $36 million related to the change in assertion regarding the indefinite reinvestment of certain of the Company’s foreign earnings. The Transition Tax is based upon previously untaxed accumulated and current earnings and profits of the Company’s foreign subsidiaries. To compute the tax, the Company determines the amount of post-1986 earnings and profits of relevant subsidiaries, as well as the amount of non-U.S. income taxes paid on such earnings. For the three months ended September 30, 2018, the Company has recorded a $15 million reduction to the charge for the remeasurement of a net deferred tax asset. On August 1, 2018, Treasury and the IRS issued proposed regulations with regard to the operation and calculation of the Transition Tax liability. The Company will continue to evaluate the impact of this guidance, as well as any additional guidance issued during the fourth quarter, on all provisional amounts and will complete its accounting for all provisional amounts within the measurement period. During 2014, the Company implemented an initiative to better align its legal entity and tax structure with its operational footprint outside of the U.S. This initiative resulted in a one-time taxable gain in Belgium relating to the transfer of intellectual property to a related foreign entity in the United Kingdom. This improved alignment has resulted in greater flexibility and efficiency with regard to the global deployment of cash, as well as benefits to the Company’s effective income tax rate. The Company recorded a deferred charge related to the income tax expense on intercompany profits that resulted from the transfer. The tax associated with the transfer was deferred and was being amortized utilizing a 25-year life. This deferred charge was included in prepaid expenses and other current assets and other assets on the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2017 in the amounts of $17 million and $352 million, respectively. In October 2016, the FASB issued accounting guidance to simplify the accounting for income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory. Under this guidance, companies are required to recognize the income tax consequences of an intra-entity asset transfer when the transfer occurs. The guidance must be applied on a modified retrospective basis through a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the period of adoption. The Company adopted this accounting guidance on January 1, 2018. The aforementioned deferred charge of $369 million at December 31, 2017 has been charged against retained earnings as a component of the cumulative-effect adjustment as of January 1, 2018. In addition, deferred taxes have also been included as a component of the cumulative-effect adjustment whereby the Company has recorded a $186 million deferred tax asset representing the temporary difference in book and tax basis of the intellectual property that was transferred to the United Kingdom. Uncertain tax positions are reviewed on an ongoing basis and are adjusted after considering facts and circumstances, including progress of tax audits, developments in case law and closing of statutes of limitation. Within the next twelve months, the Company believes that the resolution of certain federal, foreign and state and local examinations are reasonably possible and that a change in estimate, reducing unrecognized tax benefits, may occur. While such a change may be significant, it is not possible to provide a range of the potential change until the examinations progress further or the related statutes of limitation expire. The Company has effectively settled its U.S. federal income tax obligations through 2008, with the exception of transfer pricing issues which are settled through 2011. With limited exception, the Company is no longer subject to state and local or foreign examinations by tax authorities for years before 2010.Note 14. Legal and Regulatory ProceedingsMastercard is a party to legal and regulatory proceedings with respect to a variety of matters in the ordinary course of business. Some of these proceedings are based on complex claims involving substantial uncertainties and unascertainable damages. Accordingly, except as discussed below, it is not possible to determine the probability of loss or estimate damages, and therefore, Mastercard has not established reserves for any of these proceedings. When the Company determines that a loss is both probable and reasonably estimable, Mastercard records a liability and discloses the amount of the liability if it is material. When a material loss contingency is only reasonably possible, Mastercard does not record a liability, but instead discloses the nature and the amount of the claim, and an estimate of the loss or range of loss, if such an estimate can be made. Furthermore, except as identified with respect to the matters below, Mastercard does not believe that the outcome of any individual existing legal or regulatory proceeding to which it is a party will have a material adverse effect on its results of operations, financial condition or overall business. In addition, an adverse outcome in a regulatory proceeding could lead to the filing of civil damage claims and possibly result in significant damage awards. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on Mastercard’s results of operations, financial condition and overall business. When taken as a whole, the resulting decisions, regulations and legislation with respect to interchange fees and acceptance practices may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s prospects for future growth and its overall results of operations, financial position and cash flows. United States. Taken together, the claims in the complaints were generally brought under both Sections 1 and 2 of the Sherman Act, which prohibit monopolization and attempts or conspiracies to monopolize a particular industry, and some of these complaints contain unfair competition law claims under state law. The cases were consolidated for pre-trial proceedings in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York in MDL No. 1720. The plaintiffs filed a consolidated class action complaint that seeks treble damages. The class plaintiffs sought treble damages and injunctive relief including, but not limited to, an order reversing and unwinding the IPO. Among a number of scenarios addressed by the agreements, in the event of a global settlement involving the Visa parties, the financial institutions and Mastercard, Mastercard would pay 12% of the monetary portion of the settlement. In the event of a settlement involving only Mastercard and the financial institutions with respect to their issuance of Mastercard cards, Mastercard would pay 36% of the monetary portion of such settlement. The settlements included cash payments that were apportioned among the defendants pursuant to the omnibus judgment sharing and settlement sharing agreement described above. Mastercard also agreed to provide class members with a short-term reduction in default credit interchange rates and to modify certain of its business practices, including its “no surcharge” rule. The court granted final approval of the settlement in December 2013, and objectors to the settlement appealed that decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. In June 2016, the court of appeals vacated the class action certification, reversed the settlement approval and sent the case back to the district court for further proceedings. The court of appeals’ ruling was based primarily on whether the merchants were adequately represented by counsel in the settlement. The court appointed separate counsel for each class.Prior to the reversal of the settlement approval, merchants representing slightly more than 25% of the Mastercard and Visa purchase volume over the relevant period chose to opt out of the class settlement. Mastercard had anticipated that most of the larger merchants who opted out of the settlement would initiate separate actions seeking to recover damages, and over 30 opt-out complaints have been filed on behalf of numerous merchants in various jurisdictions. Mastercard has executed settlement agreements with a number of opt-out merchants. Mastercard believes these settlement agreements are not impacted by the ruling of the court of appeals. The defendants have consolidated all of these matters in front of the same federal district court that approved the merchant class settlement. In July 2014, the district court denied the defendants’ motion to dismiss the opt-out merchant complaints for failure to state a claim. In September 2018, the parties to the Damages Class litigation entered into a class settlement agreement to resolve the Damages Class claims. The Damages Class plaintiffs have filed a motion with the court seeking preliminary approval of the settlement agreement. Mastercard previously increased its reserve during the second quarter of 2018 by $210 million to reflect both its expected financial obligation under the Damages Class settlement agreement and the filed and anticipated opt-out merchant cases. The settlement agreement does not relate to the Rules Relief Class claims. Separate settlement negotiations with the Rules Relief Class are ongoing. As of September 30, 2018, Mastercard had accrued a liability of $912 million as a reserve for both the merchant class litigation and the filed and anticipated opt-out merchant cases. As of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, Mastercard had $550 million and $546 million, respectively, in a qualified cash settlement fund related to the merchant class litigation and classified as restricted cash on its consolidated balance sheet. Mastercard believes the reserve for both the merchant class litigation and the filed and anticipated opt-out merchants represents its best estimate of its probable liabilities in these matters at September 30, 2018. The portion of the accrued liability relating to both the opt-out merchants and the merchant class litigation settlement does not represent an estimate of a loss, if any, if the matters were litigated to a final outcome. Mastercard cannot estimate the potential liability if that were to occur. Canada. In December 2010, a proposed class action complaint was commenced against Mastercard in Quebec on behalf of Canadian merchants. In the first half of 2011, additional purported class action lawsuits were commenced in British Columbia and Ontario against Mastercard, Visa and a number of large Canadian financial institutions. The British Columbia suit sought compensatory damages in unspecified amounts, and the Ontario suit sought compensatory damages of $5 billion on the basis of alleged conspiracy and various alleged breaches of the Canadian Competition Act. Additional purported class action complaints were commenced in Saskatchewan and Alberta with claims that largely mirror those in the other suits. In June 2017, Mastercard entered into a class settlement agreement to resolve all of the Canadian class action litigation. The settlement, which is subject to court approval in each applicable province, requires Mastercard to make a cash payment and modify its “no surcharge” rule. During the first quarter of 2017, the Company recorded a provision for litigation of $15 million related to this matter. Europe. The Statement of Objections, which follows an investigation opened in 2013, includes preliminary conclusions concerning the alleged anticompetitive effects of these practices. The European Commission has indicated it intends to seek fines if these conclusions are subsequently confirmed. In April 2016, Mastercard submitted a response to the Statement of Objections disputing the European Commission’s preliminary conclusions and participated in a related oral hearing in May 2016. Since that time, Mastercard has remained in discussions with the European Commission. Although the Statement of Objections does not quantify the level of fines, based upon recent interactions with the European Commission, it is possible that they could be substantial, potentially in excess of $1 billion if the European Commission were to issue a negative decision. Fines may be less than this amount in the event of a negotiated resolution. Due to the uncertainty of numerous legal issues, including the potential for a negotiated resolution, Mastercard cannot estimate a possible range of loss at this time, although Mastercard expects to obtain greater clarity with respect to these issues before the end of 2018. The U.K. Mastercard submitted statements of defense to the retailers’ claims disputing liability and damages. Since June 2015, Mastercard has recorded litigation provisions for settlements, judgments and legal fees relating to these claims, including charges of $23 million in the third quarter of 2018, $15 million in the second quarter of 2018 and $19 million in the first quarter of 2018. Each of these charges relates to settlements with a number of U.K. Merchant claimants. In January 2017, Mastercard received a liability judgment in its favor on all significant matters in a separate action brought by ten of the U.K. Merchant claimants, who had been seeking in excess of $500 million in damages. Subsequently, Mastercard settled with seven of these claimants to resolve their claims. Three of the U.K. Merchant claimants appealed the judgment, and these appeals were combined with Mastercard’s appeal of a 2016 judgment in favor of one U.K. merchant. In July 2018, the U.K. appellate court ruled against both Mastercard and Visa on two of the three legal issues being considered, concluding that U.K. interchange rates restricted competition and that they were not objectively necessary for the payment networks. The appellate court sent the cases back to trial for reconsideration on the remaining issue concerning the “lawful” level of interchange. Mastercard has requested permission to appeal the ruling to the U.K. Supreme Court. Mastercard expects the litigation process to continue during the next several years. Mastercard submitted statements of defense to the retailers’ claims disputing liability and damages. During the first quarter of 2018, Mastercard recorded a charge of $70 million resulting from settlements with over 70 Pan-European claimants, which represented over 60% of the Pan-European claimants’ merchant damages claims. During the third quarter of 2018, Mastercard recorded a charge of $6 million resulting from settlements with additional Pan-European claimants. In September 2016, a proposed collective action was filed in the United Kingdom on behalf of U.K. consumers seeking damages for intra-EEA and domestic U.K. interchange fees that were allegedly passed on to consumers by merchants between 1992 and 2008. In July 2017, the court denied the plaintiffs’ application for the case to proceed as a collective action. The plaintiffs have also filed a separate request for judicial review of the court’s denial of their collective action. Plaintiffs seek to represent a class of non-bank operators of ATM terminals that operate in the United States with the discretion to determine the price of the ATM access fee for the terminals they operate. Plaintiffs allege that Mastercard and Visa have violated Section 1 of the Sherman Act by imposing rules that require ATM operators to charge non-discriminatory ATM surcharges for transactions processed over Mastercard’s and Visa’s respective networks that are not greater than the surcharge for transactions over other networks accepted at the same ATM. Plaintiffs seek both injunctive and monetary relief equal to treble the damages they claim to have sustained as a result of the alleged violations and their costs of suit, including attorneys’ fees. Plaintiffs have not quantified their damages although they allege that they expect damages to be in the tens of millions of dollars. The claims in these actions largely mirror the allegations made in the ATM Operators Complaint, although these complaints seek damages on behalf of consumers of ATM services who pay allegedly inflated ATM fees at both bank and non-bank ATM operators as a result of the defendants’ ATM rules. Plaintiffs seek both injunctive and monetary relief equal to treble the damages they claim to have sustained as a result of the alleged violations and their costs of suit, including attorneys’ fees. Plaintiffs have not quantified their damages although they allege that they expect damages to be in the tens of millions of dollars. In January 2012, the plaintiffs in the ATM Operators Complaint and the ATM Consumer Complaints filed amended class action complaints that largely mirror their prior complaints. In February 2013, the district court granted Mastercard’s motion to dismiss the complaints for failure to state a claim. On appeal, the Court of Appeals reversed the district court’s order in August 2015 and sent the case back for further proceedings.U.S. Plaintiffs allege damages equal to the value of all chargebacks for which class members became liable as a result of the EMV Liability Shift on October 1, 2015. The plaintiffs seek treble damages, attorney’s fees and costs and an injunction against future violations of governing law, and the defendants have filed a motion to dismiss. In September 2016, the court denied the Network Defendants’ motion to dismiss the complaint, but granted such a motion for EMVCo and the Bank Defendants. In May 2017, the court transferred the case to New York so that discovery could be coordinated with the U.S. merchant class interchange litigation described above. The plaintiffs have filed a renewed motion for class certification, following the district court’s denial of their initial motion. The TCPA provides for uncapped statutory damages of $500 per fax. In June 2018, the court granted Mastercard’s motion to stay the proceedings until the Federal Communications Commission makes a decision on the application of the TCPA to online fax services. Settlement exposure is the outstanding settlement risk to customers under Mastercard’s rules due to the difference in timing between the payment transaction date and subsequent settlement. While the term and amount of the guarantee are generally unlimited, the duration of settlement exposure is short term and typically limited to a few days. Gross settlement exposure is estimated using the average daily card volume during the quarter multiplied by the estimated number of days of exposure. The Company has global risk management policies and procedures, which include risk standards, to provide a framework for managing the Company’s settlement risk. Customer-reported transaction data and the transaction clearing data underlying the settlement exposure calculation may be revised in subsequent reporting periods.In the event that Mastercard effects a payment on behalf of a failed customer, Mastercard may seek an assignment of the underlying receivables of the failed customer. Customers may be charged for the amount of any settlement loss incurred during the ordinary course activities of the Company.The Company has global risk management policies and procedures aimed at managing the settlement exposure. These risk management procedures include interaction with the bank regulators of countries in which it operates, requiring customers to make adjustments to settlement processes, and requiring collateral from customers. As part of its policies, Mastercard requires certain customers that are not in compliance with the Company’s risk standards in effect at the time of review to post collateral, typically in the form of cash, letters of credit, or guarantees. This requirement is based on management’s review of the individual risk circumstances for each customer that is out of compliance. In addition to these amounts, Mastercard holds collateral to cover variability and future growth in customer programs. The Company may also hold collateral to pay merchants in the event of an acquirer failure. Although the Company is not contractually obligated under its rules to effect such payments to merchants, the Company may elect to do so to protect brand integrity. Mastercard monitors its credit risk portfolio on a regular basis and the adequacy of collateral on hand. Additionally, from time to time, the Company reviews its risk management methodology and standards. Many of the Company’s financial institution customers have been directly and adversely impacted by political instability and uncertain economic conditions. These conditions present increased risk that the Company may have to perform under its settlement guarantee. This risk could increase if political, economic and financial market conditions deteriorate further. The Company’s global risk management policies and procedures are revised and enhanced from time to time. Historically, the Company has experienced a low level of losses from financial institution failures. Mastercard also provides guarantees to customers and certain other counterparties indemnifying them from losses stemming from failures of third parties to perform duties. This includes guarantees of Mastercard-branded travelers cheques issued, but not yet cashed of $382 million and $395 million at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, of which $302 million and $313 million at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, is mitigated by collateral arrangements. In addition, the Company enters into agreements in the ordinary course of business under which the Company agrees to indemnify third parties against damages, losses and expenses incurred in connection with legal and other proceedings arising from relationships or transactions with the Company. Certain indemnifications do not provide a stated maximum exposure. As the extent of the Company’s obligations under these agreements depends entirely upon the occurrence of future events, the Company’s potential future liability under these agreements is not determinable. Historically, payments made by the Company under these types of contractual arrangements have not been material. Foreign Exchange Risk ManagementThe Company monitors and manages its foreign currency exposures as part of its overall risk management program which focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to reduce the potentially adverse effects that the volatility of these markets may have on its operating results. The Company may also enter into foreign currency derivative contracts to offset possible changes in value due to foreign exchange fluctuations of earnings, assets and liabilities. The objective of these activities is to reduce the Company’s exposure to gains and losses resulting from fluctuations of foreign currencies against its functional currencies.As of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the majority of derivative contracts to hedge foreign currency fluctuations had been entered into with customers of Mastercard. The terms of the foreign currency derivative contracts are generally less than 18 months. The Company had no deferred gains or losses related to foreign currency derivative contracts in accumulated other comprehensive income as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, as these contracts were not accounted for under hedge accounting.The Company’s derivative financial instruments are subject to both market and counterparty credit risk. Market risk is the potential for economic losses to be incurred on market risk sensitive instruments arising from adverse changes in market factors such as foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and other related variables. The effect of a hypothetical 10% adverse change in U.S. dollar forward rates could result in a fair value loss of approximately $108 million on the Company’s foreign currency derivative contracts outstanding at September 30, 2018. Counterparty credit risk is the risk of loss due to failure of the counterparty to perform its obligations in accordance with contractual terms. To mitigate counterparty credit risk, the Company enters into derivative contracts with a diversified group of selected financial institutions based upon their credit ratings and other factors. In 2015, the Company designated its €1.65 billion debt as a net investment hedge for a portion of its net investment in European foreign operations. There was no ineffectiveness in the current period.34Table of ContentsITEM 2. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONSThe following supplements management's discussion and analysis of Mastercard Incorporated for the year ended December 31, 2017 as contained in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on February 14, 2018. Percentage changes provided throughout “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” were calculated on amounts rounded to the nearest thousand.Business Overview Mastercard is a technology company in the global payments industry that connects consumers, financial institutions, merchants, governments, digital partners, businesses and other organizations worldwide, enabling them to use electronic forms of payment instead of cash and checks. We make payments easier and more efficient by creating a wide range of payment solutions and services using our family of well-known brands, including Mastercard®, Maestro®, Cirrus® and Masterpass®. As a multi-rail network, we now offer customers one partner to turn to for their payment needs for both domestic and cross-border transactions. We also provide value-added offerings such as safety and security products, information services and consulting, loyalty and reward programs and issuer and acquirer processing. Our networks are designed to ensure safety and security for the global payments system. We do not issue cards, extend credit, determine or receive revenue from interest rates or other fees charged to account holders by issuers, or establish the rates charged by acquirers in connection with merchants’ acceptance of our branded products. Our ability to grow our business is influenced by personal consumption expenditure growth, driving cash and check transactions toward electronic forms of payment, increasing our share in electronic payments and providing value-added products and services. We focus on growing our core business globally, including growing our consumer credit, debit, prepaid and commercial products and solutions, thereby increasing the number of payment transactions we switch. We also look to take advantage of the opportunities presented by the evolving ways people interact and transact in the growing digital economy.Diversify. We work with a variety of stakeholders. We provide financial institutions with solutions to help them increase revenue by driving preference for Mastercard-branded products. We help merchants, financial institutions and other organizations by delivering data-driven insights and other services that help them grow and create simple and secure purchase experiences. We partner with technology companies such as digital players and mobile providers to deliver digital payment solutions powered by our technology, expertise and security protocols. We help national and local governments drive increased financial inclusion and efficiency, reduce costs, increase transparency to reduce crime and corruption and advance social programs. For consumers, we provide better, safer and more convenient ways to pay.Business Environment We authorize, clear and settle transactions in more than 210 countries and territories and in more than 150 currencies. Net revenue generated in the United States was 32% of total net revenue for both the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, and 34% and 35% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, respectively. No individual country, other than the United States, generated more than 10% of total net revenue in each period, but differences in market growth, economic health and foreign exchange fluctuations in certain countries can have an impact on the proportion of revenue generated outside the United States over time. While the global nature of our business helps protect our operating results from adverse economic conditions in a single or a few countries, the significant concentration of our revenue generated in the United States makes our business particularly susceptible to adverse economic conditions in the United States. Our primary revenue billing currencies are the U.S. dollar, euro, Brazilian real and the British pound. The competitive and evolving nature of the global payments industry provides both challenges to and opportunities for the continued growth of our business. Certain of our customers, merchants that accept our brands and account holders who use our brands, have been directly impacted by these adverse economic conditions.Our financial results may be negatively impacted by actions taken by individual financial institutions or by governmental or regulatory bodies. In addition, political instability or a decline in economic conditions in the countries in which we operate may accelerate the timing of or increase the impact of risks to our financial performance. As a result, our revenue or results of operations may be negatively impacted. We continue to monitor political and economic conditions around the world to identify opportunities for the continued growth of our business and to evaluate the evolution of the global payments industry. See “Non-GAAP Financial Information” for further information on the Special Items, the impact of foreign currency and the reconciliation to GAAP reported amounts. Current year results include a combined 3 and 4 percentage points of growth, respectively, from the impact of the adoption of the new revenue standard and our prior year acquisitions. •The effective income tax rate was 16.1% and 17.2% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, versus 26.0% and 26.8%, respectively, for the comparable periods in 2017. The lower effective tax rates, versus the comparable periods in 2017, were primarily due to a lower enacted statutory tax rate in the United States and a more favorable geographic mix of taxable earnings. The lower effective tax rates for the periods were also attributable to $65 million of discrete deferred tax benefits, relating primarily to provisions for legal matters in the United States. Additionally, the lower effective tax rate for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was attributable to discrete benefits for share-based payments. Currency-neutral growth rates are calculated by remeasuring the prior period’s results using the current period’s exchange rates for both the translational and transactional impacts on operating results. The impact of foreign currency translation represents the effect of translating operating results where the functional currency is different than our U.S. dollar reporting currency. The impact of the transactional foreign currency represents the effect of converting revenue and expenses occurring in a currency other than the functional currency. Our management believes the presentation of the impact of foreign currency provides relevant information.Our management believes that the non-GAAP financial measures presented facilitate an understanding of our operating performance and provide a meaningful comparison of our results between periods. Our management uses non-GAAP financial measures to, among other things, evaluate our ongoing operations in relation to historical results, for internal planning and forecasting purposes and in the calculation of performance-based compensation. The following tables reconcile our as-reported financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP to the respective non-GAAP adjusted financial measures. The impact of the transactional foreign currency represents the effect of converting revenue and expense transactions occurring in a currency other than the functional currency. In most non-European regions, GDV is calculated based on local currency spending volume converted to U.S. dollars using average exchange rates for the period. In Europe, GEV is calculated based on local currency spending volume converted to euros using average exchange rates for the period. As a result, our domestic assessments, cross-border volume fees and volume-related rebates and incentives are impacted by the strengthening or weakening of the U.S. dollar versus non-European local currencies and the strengthening or weakening of the euro versus other European local currencies. For example, our billing in Australia is in the U.S. dollar, however, consumer spend in Australia is in the Australian dollar. The foreign currency transactional impact of converting Australian dollars to our U.S. dollar billing currency will have an impact on the revenue generated. The strengthening or weakening of the U.S. dollar is evident when GDV growth on a U.S. dollar-converted basis is compared to GDV growth on a local currency basis. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, GDV on a U.S. dollar-converted basis increased 9% and 14%, respectively, while GDV on a local currency basis increased 13% and 14%, respectively, versus the comparable periods in 2017. Since we do not designate foreign currency derivatives as hedging instruments pursuant to the accounting standards for derivative instruments and hedging activities, we record gains and losses on foreign exchange derivatives on a current basis, with the associated offset being recognized as the exposures materialize.We are exposed to currency devaluation in certain countries. In addition, we are subject to exchange control regulations that restrict the conversion of financial assets into U.S. dollars. 41Table of ContentsFinancial ResultsRevenueIn the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, gross revenue increased 16% and 21%, or 18% and 20% on a currency-neutral basis, respectively, versus the comparable periods in 2017. Gross revenue growth in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 was driven by an increase in transactions, dollar volume of activity on cards carrying our brands and other payment-related products and services. Rebates and incentives, in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, increased 18% and 19%, or 21% and 19% on a currency-neutral basis, respectively, versus the comparable periods in 2017, primarily due to new and renewed deals and increased volumes. Our net revenue for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, increased 15% and 21%, or 17% and 20% on a currency-neutral basis, respectively, versus the comparable periods in 2017. 4 Includes impact of the allocation of revenue to service deliverables, which are recorded in other revenue when services are performed.5 Includes impacts from Advisor fees, safety and security fees, loyalty and reward solution fees and other payment-related products and services.6 Includes the impact from timing of new, renewed and expired agreements.The following table provides a summary of the trend in volume and transaction growth. The regulation requires that we no longer collect fees on domestic European Economic Area payment transactions that do not use our network brand. As a result, the non-Mastercard co-badged volume is no longer being included.The following table reflects GDV growth rates for Europe and Worldwide Mastercard. For comparability purposes, we adjusted growth rates for the impact of Article 8 of the EU Interchange Fee Regulation related to card payments, to exclude the prior period co-badged volume processed by other networks. For comparability purposes, we adjusted growth rates for the deconsolidation of our Venezuelan subsidiaries. Revenue from these transactions was not material to our consolidated financial results. The loss of any of these customers or their significant card programs could adversely impact our revenue. In addition, as part of our business strategy, Mastercard, among other efforts, enters into business agreements with customers. These agreements can be terminated in a variety of circumstances. See our risk factor in “Risk Factor - Business Risks” in Part I, Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.Operating ExpensesOperating expenses increased 11% and 25% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, versus the comparable periods in 2017. Excluding the impact of the Special Items, adjusted operating expenses increased 9% and 16%, or 10% and 15% on a currency-neutral basis, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, versus the comparable periods in 2017. The increase was due to a higher number of employees to support our continued investment in the areas of digital infrastructure, safety and security platforms and data analytics as well as geographic expansion. The impact from acquisitions was de minimis for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and contributed 3 percentage points to expense growth for the nine months ended September 30, 2018. •Data processing and telecommunication expenses increased 14% and 19%, or 14% and 18% on a currency-neutral basis, respectively, due to capacity growth of our business. The impact from acquisitions was de minimis for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and contributed 5 percentage points to expense growth for the nine months ended September 30, 2018. •Foreign exchange activity contributed a benefit of 2 and 4 percentage points, respectively. For the three months ended September 30, 2018, we recorded gains from our foreign exchange derivative contracts primarily related to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar, fully offset by balance sheet remeasurement losses. For the nine months ended September 30, 2018 we recorded gains from our foreign exchange derivative contracts primarily related to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar, partially offset by balance sheet remeasurement losses. This compares to losses from both our foreign exchange derivative contracts and balance sheet remeasurement in the prior year comparable periods. •Other expenses remained relatively flat for the three months ended September 30, 2018. For the nine months ended September 30, 2018 other expenses increased 20 percentage points primarily due to the contribution to the Mastercard Center for Inclusive Growth, a non-profit charitable organization. The remaining increase was due to costs to support our strategic development efforts. Other expenses include costs to provide loyalty and rewards solutions, travel and meeting expenses, rental expense for our facilities and other costs associated with our business. Advertising and MarketingAdvertising and marketing expenses increased 15% and 18%, or 18% and 17% on a currency-neutral basis, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, versus the comparable periods in 2017, primarily due to a change in accounting for certain marketing fund arrangements as a result of our adoption of the new revenue guidance, partially offset by a net decrease in spending on certain marketing campaigns. Depreciation and amortization expenses increased 8% or 7% on a currency-neutral basis, for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 versus the comparable period in 2017, primarily due to the impact of acquisitions partially offset by the full amortization of certain intangible assets. 46Table of ContentsProvision for Litigation SettlementsIn the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, we recorded $29 million and $371 million in provisions for various litigations, respectively, versus $15 million recorded in the first quarter of 2017. Total other expense increased $14 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018 versus the comparable period in 2017, primarily due to higher interest expense related to our debt issuance in February 2018 and the lapping of a gain relating to an investment we had in a company that we acquired in the third quarter of 2017, partially offset by higher investment income. The lower effective tax rates, versus the comparable periods in 2017, were primarily due to a lower enacted statutory tax rate in the United States and a more favorable geographic mix of taxable earnings. These benefits were partially offset by other aspects of the U.S. Tax Reform for which a tax benefit is no longer recognized, including a U.S. foreign tax credit benefit for the repatriation of current year foreign earnings and the domestic production activities deduction. The lower effective tax rates for the periods were also attributable to $65 million of discrete deferred tax benefits, relating primarily to provisions for legal matters in the United States. Additionally, the lower effective tax rate for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was attributable to discrete benefits related to share-based payments.Liquidity and Capital ResourcesWe rely on existing liquidity, cash generated from operations and access to capital to fund our global operations, credit and settlement exposure, capital expenditures, investments in our business and current and potential obligations. At September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, this amount excludes restricted cash related to the U.S. merchant class litigation settlement of $550 million and $546 million, respectively. This amount also excludes restricted security deposits held for customers of $1.0 billion at September 30, 2018 and $1.1 billion at December 31, 2017.As a result of the enactment of the U.S. Tax Reform, among other things, we have changed our assertion regarding the indefinite reinvestment of foreign earnings outside the U.S. for certain of our foreign affiliates. It is our present intention to indefinitely reinvest a portion of our historic undistributed accumulated earnings associated with certain foreign subsidiaries outside of the United States. Based upon the ongoing review of business requirements and capital needs of our non-U.S. subsidiaries, we believe a portion of these undistributed earnings that have already been subject to tax in the U.S. will be necessary to fund current and future growth of the related businesses and will remain indefinitely reinvested outside of the U.S. In 2018, we continue to review our global working capital and cash needs to determine the amount we consider indefinitely reinvested. We will disclose such amount in the period in which such analysis is completed.Our liquidity and access to capital could be negatively impacted by global credit market conditions. We guarantee the settlement of many Mastercard, Cirrus and Maestro-branded transactions between our issuers and acquirers. Historically, payments under these guarantees have not been significant; however, historical trends may not be an indication of potential future losses. The risk of loss on these guarantees is specific to individual customers, but may also be driven significantly by regional or global economic conditions, including, but not limited to the health of the financial institutions in a country or region. Our liquidity and access to capital could also be negatively impacted by the outcome of any of the legal or regulatory proceedings to which we are a party. Borrowings under the Commercial Paper Program and the Credit Facility are to provide liquidity for general corporate purposes, including providing liquidity in the event of one or more settlement failures by our customers. In addition, we may borrow and repay amounts under these facilities for business continuity purposes. We had no borrowings outstanding under the Commercial Paper Program or the Credit Facility at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017. Dividends and Share RepurchasesWe have historically paid quarterly dividends on our outstanding Class A common stock and Class B common stock. Subject to legally available funds, we intend to continue to pay a quarterly cash dividend. However, the declaration and payment of future dividends is at the sole discretion of our Board of Directors after taking into account various factors, including our financial condition, operating results, available cash and current and anticipated cash needs.Aggregate payments for quarterly dividends totaled $785 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018. On December 4, 2017, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.25 per share paid on February 9, 2018 to holders of record on January 9, 2018 of our Class A common stock and Class B common stock. The aggregate amount of this dividend was $263 million. On February 5, 2018, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.25 per share payable on May 9, 2018 to holders of record on April 9, 2018 of our Class A common stock and Class B common stock. The aggregate amount of this dividend was $262 million. On June 25, 2018, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.25 per share payable on August 9, 2018 to holders of record on July 9, 2018 of our Class A common stock and Class B common stock. The aggregate amount of this dividend was $260 million.On September 17, 2018, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.25 per share payable on November 9, 2018 to holders of record on October 9, 2018 of our Class A common stock and Class B common stock. The aggregate amount of this dividend will be $259 million.49Table of ContentsRepurchased shares of our common stock are considered treasury stock. The timing and actual number of additional shares repurchased will depend on a variety of factors, including the operating needs of the business, legal requirements, price and economic and market conditions. In December 2017 and December 2016, our Board of Directors approved share repurchase programs authorizing us to repurchase up to $4 billion of our Class A common stock under each plan. The program approved in 2017 became effective in March 2018 after completion of the share repurchase program authorized in December 2016. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Market risk is the potential for economic losses to be incurred on market risk sensitive instruments arising from adverse changes in market factors such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and equity price risk. Our exposure to market risk from changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and equity price risk is limited. Management establishes and oversees the implementation of policies governing our funding, investments and use of derivative financial instruments. We monitor risk exposures on an ongoing basis. The effect of a hypothetical 10% adverse change in U.S. dollar forward rates could result in a fair value loss of approximately $108 million on our foreign currency derivative contracts outstanding at September 30, 2018 related to the hedging program. A 100 basis point adverse change in interest rates would not have a material impact on our investments at September 30, 2018. Our euro-denominated debt is vulnerable to changes in the euro to U.S. dollar exchange rates. In addition to euro-denominated debt, we have U.S. dollar-denominated debt, both of which carry a fixed interest rate and thus the fair value of our debt is subject to interest rate risk. There was no material equity price risk at September 30, 2018.ITEM 4. The President and Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, with assistance from 50Table of Contentsother members of management, have reviewed the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this Report and, based on their evaluation, have concluded that the disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of such date.Changes in Internal Control over Financial ReportingThere was no change in Mastercard’s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the three months ended September 30, 2018 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, Mastercard's internal control over financial reporting.Other Financial InformationWith respect to the unaudited consolidated financial information of Mastercard Incorporated and its subsidiaries as of September 30, 2018 and for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP reported that they have applied limited procedures in accordance with professional standards for a review of such information. However, their report dated October 30, 2018 appearing below, states that they did not audit and they do not express an opinion on that unaudited financial information. Accordingly, the degree of reliance on their report on such information should be restricted in light of the limited nature of the review procedures applied. Based on our reviews, we are not aware of any material modifications that should be made to the interim financial statements referred to above for them to be in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. In our opinion, the information set forth in the consolidated balance sheet information as of December 31, 2017, is fairly stated in all material respects, in relation to the consolidated balance sheet from which it has been derived.Basis for Review ResultsThese interim financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. We conducted our review in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. A review of interim financial information consists principally of applying analytical procedures and making inquiries of persons responsible for financial and accounting matters. It is substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB, the objective of which is the expression of an opinion regarding the financial statements taken as a whole. ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDSISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIESDuring the third quarter of 2018, we repurchased a total of approximately 5.6 million shares for $1.2 billion at an average price of $207.14 per share of Class A common stock. ITEM 5. OTHER INFORMATION Pursuant to Section 219 of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012, we hereby incorporate by reference herein the disclosure contained in Exhibit 99.1 of this Report.ITEM 6. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. In particular, any representations and warranties made by the Company in these agreements or other documents were made solely within the specific context of the relevant agreement or document and may not describe the actual state of affairs as of the date they were made or at any other time.54Table of ContentsSIGNATURESPursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.