Yes T No ¨Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or an emerging growth company. See the definitions of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer," "smaller reporting company," and "emerging growth company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. Yes o No xThe number of outstanding shares of the registrant's common stock as of June 15, 2018 was 1,159,810,627. Micron Technology, Inc., including its consolidated subsidiaries, is an industry leader in innovative memory and storage solutions. Through our global brands – Micron®, Crucial®, and Ballistix® – our broad portfolio of high-performance memory and storage technologies, including DRAM, NAND, NOR Flash, and 3D XPointTM memory, is transforming how the world uses information to enrich life. Backed by nearly 40 years of technology leadership, our memory and storage solutions enable disruptive trends, including artificial intelligence, machine learning, and autonomous vehicles, in key market segments like cloud, data center, networking, and mobile.Micron, Crucial, Ballistix, any associated logos, and all other Micron trademarks are the property of Micron. Other product names or trademarks that are not owned by Micron are for identification purposes only and may be the registered or unregistered trademarks of their respective owners.Forward-Looking StatementsThis Form 10-Q contains trend information and other forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements such as those made regarding timing of product introductions; our expected NAND development activities with Intel; the effect of U.S. tax reform; our expectation to engage, from time to time, in additional financing transactions; the sufficiency of our cash and investments, cash flows from operations, and available financing to meet our requirements for at least the next 12 months; capital spending in 2018; and the timing of completing construction of additional clean-room space and initial wafer output from our Singapore NAND fabrication facility. We are under no obligation to update these forward-looking statements. Our actual results could differ materially from our historical results and those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include, but are not limited to, those identified in "Part II, Other Information – Item 1A. Risk Factors. "Definitions of Commonly Used TermsAs used herein, "we," "our," "us," and similar terms include Micron Technology, Inc. and our consolidated subsidiaries, unless the context indicates otherwise. In the opinion of our management, the accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements contain all necessary adjustments, consisting of a normal recurring nature, to fairly state the financial information set forth herein. Certain reclassifications have been made to prior period amounts to conform to current period presentation.Our fiscal year is the 52 or 53-week period ending on the Thursday closest to August 31. Fiscal years 2018 and 2017 each contain 52 weeks. All period references are to our fiscal periods unless otherwise indicated. Our government incentives may require that we meet or maintain specified spending levels and other operational metrics and may be subject to reimbursement if such conditions are not met or maintained. Incentives related to specific operating activities are offset against the related expense in the period the expense is incurred. Incentives related to the acquisition or construction of fixed assets are recognized as a reduction in the carrying amounts of the related assets and reduce depreciation expense over the useful lives of the assets. Other incentives are recognized as other operating income. Government incentives received prior to being earned are recognized in current or noncurrent deferred income, whereas government incentives earned prior to being received are recognized in current or noncurrent receivables. Cash received from government incentives related to operating expenses are included as an operating activity in the statement of cash flows, whereas incentives related to the acquisition of property, plant, and equipment are included as an investing activity.Variable Interest EntitiesWe have interests in entities that are VIEs. If we are the primary beneficiary of a VIE, we are required to consolidate it. To determine if we are the primary beneficiary, we evaluate whether we have the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact the VIE's economic performance and the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits of the VIE that could potentially be significant to the VIE. Our evaluation includes identification of significant activities and an assessment of our ability to direct those activities based on governance provisions and arrangements to provide or receive product and process technology, product supply, operations services, equity funding, financing, and other applicable agreements and circumstances. We do not have an equity interest in PTI Xi'an. PTI Xi'an is a VIE because of the terms of its service agreement with us and its dependency on PTI to finance its operations. We have determined that we do not have the power to direct the activities of PTI Xi'an that most significantly impact its economic performance, primarily because we have no governance rights. Therefore, we do not 6consolidate PTI Xi'an. The primary activities of IMFT are driven by the constant introduction of product and process technology. Because we perform a significant majority of the technology development, we have the power to direct its key activities. We consolidate IMFT because we have the power to direct the activities of IMFT that most significantly impact its economic performance and because we have the obligation to absorb losses and the right to receive benefits from IMFT that could potentially be significant to it. This ASU will be effective for us in the first quarter of 2019 and requires modified retrospective adoption. This ASU requires that the income statement reflect the measurement of credit losses for newly recognized financial assets as well as the expected increases or decreases of expected credit losses that have taken place during the period. This ASU requires that credit losses of debt securities designated as available-for-sale be recorded through an allowance for credit losses and limits the credit loss to the amount by which fair value is below amortized cost. This ASU will be effective for us in the first quarter of 2021 with adoption permitted as early as the first quarter of 2020. This ASU requires modified retrospective adoption, with prospective adoption for debt securities for which an other-than-temporary impairment had been recognized before the effective date. We are evaluating the timing and effects of our adoption of this ASU on our financial statements.In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02 – Leases, which amends a number of aspects of lease accounting, including requiring lessees to recognize operating leases with a term greater than one year on their balance sheet as a right-of- use asset and corresponding liability, measured at the present value of the lease payments. This ASU will be effective for us in the first quarter of 2020 with early adoption permitted and requires modified retrospective adoption. The adoption of this ASU will result in an increase in right-of-use assets and corresponding liabilities. We are evaluating the timing and other effects of our adoption of this ASU on our financial statements.In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-01 – Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities, which provides guidance for the recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure of financial assets and liabilities. This ASU will be effective for us in the first quarter of 2019 and requires modified retrospective adoption, with prospective adoption for amendments related to equity securities without readily determinable fair values. Our assets and liabilities subject to this standard are not material.In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09 – Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which supersedes nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The core principal of this ASU, as amended, is that an entity should recognize revenue when it transfers promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. This ASU also requires additional disclosure about the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from customer contracts, including significant judgments and changes in judgments, and assets recognized from costs incurred to obtain or fulfill a contract. Revenue recognized upon resale by our distributors under these arrangements was 19% of our consolidated revenue for the third quarter and first nine months of 2018, and 19% and 21% of our consolidated revenue for the third quarter and first nine months of 2017, respectively. On the date of initial application of this ASU, we will derecognize the deferred income on sales made to our distributors through a cumulative adjustment to retained earnings. We expect the revenue deferral, historically recognized in the following period, to be offset by the earlier recognition of revenue as described above as control of product transfers to our distributors. As a result of the adoption of this ASU, we expect to recognize interest expense from the financing component for contracts with advanced payments under which we transfer control of our products to our customers for periods extending beyond one year, although historically such arrangements would not have resulted in significant amounts of interest expense. Inotera manufactures DRAM products at its 300mm wafer fabrication facility in Taoyuan City, Taiwan, and previously sold such products exclusively to us through supply agreements, under which we purchased $504 million of DRAM products in the first quarter of 2017, based on a pricing formula that equally shared margin between Inotera and us.Pro Forma Financial InformationThe following pro forma financial information presents the combined results of operations as if the Inotera Acquisition had occurred on September 4, 2015. The pro forma financial information includes the accounting effects of the business combination, including adjustments for depreciation of property, plant, and equipment, interest expense, elimination of intercompany activities, and revaluation of inventories. The pro forma financial information below is not necessarily indicative of either future results of operations or results that might have been achieved had the Inotera Acquisition occurred on September 4, 2015. We perform supplemental analyses to validate information obtained from these pricing services. No adjustments were made to the fair values indicated by such pricing information as of May 31, 2018 or August 31, 2017. Additionally, the closing price of our common stock also exceeded the thresholds for the calendar quarter ended June 30, 2018; therefore, these notes are convertible by the holders at any time through September 30, 2018. These items had an aggregate carrying value of $1.39 billion as of May 31, 2018 that will settle in the fourth quarter of 2018 and reduce the carrying value of our debt.11Debt Prepayments, Repurchases, and ConversionsDuring the first nine months of 2018, we prepaid, repurchased, and settled conversions of debt with an aggregate of $4.73 billion principal amount. When we receive a notice of conversion for any of our convertible notes and elect to settle in cash any amount of the conversion obligation in excess of the principal amount, the cash settlement obligations become derivative debt liabilities subject to mark-to-market accounting treatment based on the volume-weighted-average price of our common stock over a period of 20 consecutive trading days. IMFT Member Debt bears no interest, matures upon the completion of an auction and sale of assets of IMFT prior to the dissolution, liquidation, or other wind-up of IMFT, and is convertible, at the election of Intel, in whole or in part, into a capital contribution to IMFT. Additionally, to the extent IMFT distributes cash to its members under the terms of the IMFT joint venture agreement, Intel may, at its option, designate any portion of the distribution to be a repayment of the IMFT Member Debt. In the event Intel exercises its right to put its interest in IMFT to us, or if we exercise our right to call from Intel its interest in IMFT, Intel will transfer to Micron any IMFT Member Debt outstanding at the time of the closing of the put or call transaction. As of May 31, 2018, the 2022 Term Loan B bears interest at LIBOR plus 1.75%. Convertible Senior NotesAs of May 31, 2018, the trading price of our common stock was higher than the initial conversion prices of our convertible notes. As a result, the conversion values for these notes exceeded the principal amounts by $3.21 billion as of May 31, 2018.ContingenciesWe have accrued a liability and charged operations for the estimated costs of adjudication or settlement of various asserted and unasserted claims existing as of the balance sheet date, including those described below. On March 27, 2015, Elm filed an amended complaint against the same entities. The amended complaint alleges that unspecified semiconductor products of ours that incorporate multiple stacked die infringe 13 U.S. patents and seeks damages, attorneys' fees, and costs.On December 15, 2014, Innovative Memory Solutions, Inc. filed a patent infringement action against Micron in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware. The complaint alleges that a variety of our NAND products infringe eight U.S. patents and seeks damages, attorneys' fees, and costs.On June 24, 2016, the President and Fellows of Harvard University filed a patent infringement action against Micron in the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts. The complaint alleged that a variety of our DRAM products infringed two U.S. patents and sought damages, injunctive relief, and other unspecified relief. On March 1, 2018, we executed a settlement agreement resolving this litigation. The complaint alleges that MXA and MSS infringe a Chinese patent by manufacturing and selling certain Crucial DDR4 DRAM modules. On April 3, 2018, MSS was served with the same complaint. The complaint alleges that MXA and MSS infringe a Chinese patent by manufacturing and selling certain Crucial DDR4 DRAM modules. The complaint seeks an order requiring the defendants to destroy inventory of the accused products and equipment for manufacturing the accused products in China, to stop manufacturing, using, selling, and offering for sale the accused products in China, and to pay damages of 90 million Chinese yuan plus court fees incurred.On April 3, 2018, MSS was served with another patent infringement complaint filed by Jinhua and two additional complaints filed by UMC in the Fuzhou Intermediate People's Court in Fujian Province, China. The three additional complaints allege that MSS infringes three Chinese patents by manufacturing and selling certain Crucial MX300 SSDs and certain GDDR5 13memory chips. The two complaints filed by UMC each seek an order requiring the defendant to destroy inventory of the accused products and equipment for manufacturing the accused products in China, to stop manufacturing, using, selling, and offering for sale the accused products in China, and to pay damages of 90 million Chinese yuan plus court fees incurred. The complaint filed by Jinhua seeks an order requiring the defendants to destroy inventory of the accused products and equipment for manufacturing the accused products in China, to stop manufacturing, using, selling, and offering for sale the accused products in China, and to pay damages of 98 million Chinese yuan plus court fees incurred.Among other things, the above lawsuits pertain to certain of our DDR DRAM, DDR2 DRAM, DDR3 DRAM, DDR4 DRAM, SDR SDRAM, PSRAM, RLDRAM, LPDRAM, NAND, and certain other memory products we manufacture, which account for a significant portion of our net sales.We are unable to predict the outcome of assertions of infringement made against us and therefore cannot estimate the range of possible loss. The interlocutory judgments have no immediate, enforceable effect on us, and, accordingly, we expect to be able to continue to operate with full control of the Inotera Shares subject to further developments in the case. We have filed a notice of appeal, and the parties have submitted briefs to the appeals court.We are unable to predict the outcome of the matter and therefore cannot estimate the range of possible loss. The complaint alleges that UMC and Jinhua violated the Defend Trade Secrets Act, the civil provisions of the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act, and California's Uniform Trade Secrets Act by misappropriating Micron's trade secrets and other misconduct. Micron's complaint seeks damages, restitution, disgorgement of profits, injunctive relief, and other appropriate relief.On April 27, 2018, a purported class-action lawsuit was filed against Micron and other DRAM suppliers in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California asserting claims based on alleged price-fixing of DRAM products during 14the period from June 1, 2016 to February 1, 2018. Similar cases were subsequently filed in Canadian courts in Quebec, Montreal and Toronto, Ontario. The complaints seek treble monetary damages, costs, interest, attorneys' fees, and other injunctive and equitable relief. We are unable to predict the outcome of these matters and therefore cannot estimate the range of possible loss. The final resolution of these matters could result in significant liability and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.In the normal course of business, we are a party to a variety of agreements pursuant to which we may be obligated to indemnify the other party. It is not possible to predict the maximum potential amount of future payments under these types of agreements due to the conditional nature of our obligations and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. The capped calls provide for our receipt of cash or shares, at our election, from our counterparties if the trading price of our stock is above the strike prices on the expiration dates. As of May 31, 2018, the dollar value of cash or shares that we would receive from our outstanding capped calls upon their expiration dates range from $0, if the trading price of our stock is below the strike prices for all capped calls at expiration, to $98 million, if the trading price of our stock is at or above the cap prices for all capped calls. IMFT is governed by a Board of Managers, for which the number of managers appointed by each member varies based on the members' respective ownership interests. IMFT manufactures semiconductor products exclusively for its members under a long-term supply agreement at prices approximating cost.IMFT's capital requirements are generally determined based on an annual plan approved by the members, and capital contributions to IMFT are requested as needed. Capital requests are made to the members in proportion to their then-current ownership interest. Members may elect to not contribute their proportional share, and in such event, the contributing member may elect to contribute any amount of the remaining capital request, either in the form of an equity contribution or member debt financing. Under the supply agreement, the members have rights and obligations to the capacity of IMFT in proportion to their 15investment, including member debt financing. Any capital contribution or member debt financing results in a proportionate adjustment to the sharing of output on an eight-month lag. Members pay their proportionate share of fixed costs associated with IMFT's capacity.IMFT sales to Intel were $114 million and $341 million for the third quarter and first nine months of 2018, respectively, and $123 million and $375 million for the third quarter and first nine months of 2017, respectively. In the first quarter of 2018, IMFT discontinued production of NAND and subsequent to that time is entirely focused on 3D XPoint memory production.The IMFT joint venture agreement extends through 2024 and includes certain buy-sell rights. At any time through December 2018, Intel can put to us, and from January 2019 through December 2021, we can call from Intel, Intel's interest in IMFT, in either case, for a price that approximates Intel's interest in the net book value of IMFT plus member debt at the time of the closing. If Intel exercises its put right, we can elect to set the closing date of the transaction any time between six months and two years following such election by Intel and we can elect to receive financing of the purchase price from Intel for one to two years from the closing date. If we exercise our call right, Intel can elect to set the closing date of the transaction to be any time between six months and one year following such election. Following the closing date resulting from exercise of either the put or the call, we will continue to supply to Intel for a period of one year between 50% and 100%, at Intel's choice, of Intel's immediately preceding six-month period pre-closing volumes of IMFT products for the first six-month period following the closing and between 0% and 100%, at Intel's choice, of Intel's first six-month period following the closing volumes of IMFT products for the second six-month period following the closing, at a margin that varies depending on whether the put or call was exercised.Creditors of IMFT have recourse only to IMFT's assets and do not have recourse to any other of our assets. Amounts reported as cash and equivalents, receivables, and accounts payable and accrued expenses approximate fair value. dollars. For derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the realized and unrealized gains or losses on derivatives is included as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income. Amounts in accumulated other comprehensive income are reclassified into earnings in the same line items and in the same periods in which the underlying transactions affect earnings. As a result of adopting ASU 2017-12, beginning in the second quarter of 2018, such amounts are included in the same line item in which the underlying transactions affect earnings.We recognized losses in accumulated other comprehensive income from the effective portion of cash flow hedges of $23 million and $6 million for the third quarter and first nine months of 2018, respectively, and gains of $6 million and losses of $3 million for the third quarter and first nine months of 2017, respectively. Neither the amount excluded from hedge effectiveness 18nor the reclassifications from accumulated other comprehensive income to earnings were material in the third quarters or first nine months of 2018 and 2017. For derivative forward contracts designated as fair value hedges, hedge effectiveness is determined by the change in the fair value of the undiscounted spot rate of the forward contract. At the end of each reporting period, monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar are remeasured into U.S. dollars and the associated outstanding forward contracts are marked to market. The ESPP permits eligible employees to purchase shares of our common stock through payroll deductions of up to 10% of their eligible compensation, subject to certain limitations. The income tax benefits related to share-based compensation for the periods presented prior to the second quarter of 2018 were offset by an increase in the U.S. valuation allowance. As of May 31, 2018, $364 million of total unrecognized compensation costs for unvested awards was expected to be recognized through the third quarter of 2022, resulting in a weighted-average period of 1.3 years.Research and DevelopmentWe share the cost of certain product and process development activities with development partners. The Tax Act allows us to elect to pay any Repatriation Tax due in eight annual interest-free payments in increasing amounts beginning in December 2018. In connection with the provisions of the Tax Act, we are continuing to evaluate whether to account for the Foreign Minimum Tax provisions that begin for us in 2019 as a period cost or in our measurement of deferred taxes.The Securities and Exchange Commission Staff Accounting Bulletin No. Provisional amounts may be adjusted during a one-year measurement period as accounting for the income tax effects of the Tax Act are completed or as estimates are revised.In accordance with SAB 118, we recorded certain provisional estimates included in the table below. Although the provisional estimates are based on the best available interpretations of the Tax Act, the final impacts may differ from the estimates due to, among other things, the issuance of additional regulatory and legislative guidance related to the Tax Act. To determine the amount of the Repatriation Tax, we must determine the accumulated foreign earnings of our foreign subsidiaries and the amount of foreign income tax paid on such earnings. The provisional estimate of the Repatriation Tax is also based, in part, on the amount of cash and other specified assets anticipated to be held by our foreign subsidiaries as of August 30, 2018, the end of our fiscal year 2018, which will determine the portion of the accumulated foreign earnings taxed at an effective rate of 15.5% or 8%. The provisional estimate for the Repatriation Tax was revised in the third quarter of 2018, and may continue to be revised as amounts are finalized. The U.S. Department of Treasury has issued interpretive guidance regarding the Repatriation Tax and we expect that it will issue additional guidance. Based on the information available, we can reasonably estimate the Repatriation Tax and therefore recorded a provisional amount; however, we are continuing to gather additional information and analyze authoritative guidance to finalize the computation of the Repatriation Tax as well as the impacts on the valuation allowance release of the Repatriation Tax and the Tax Act.During the third quarter of 2018, we reassessed our capital structure, including our Board of Directors' authorization to repurchase up to $10 billion of our outstanding common stock beginning in 2019, the future cash needs of our global operations, and the effects of the Tax Act. As a result of this reassessment, we deemed a portion of our foreign earnings to be no longer indefinitely invested. As a result of the Repatriation Tax, substantially all of our accumulated foreign earnings prior to December 31, 2017 were subject to U.S. federal taxation. Although we have provided for U.S. federal income tax on these earnings, the repatriation to the United States of all or a portion of these earnings would be subject to foreign and state income tax. As a result, in the third quarter of 2018, we recognized income tax provision of $68 million for deferred tax liabilities associated with our reassessment of our indefinitely reinvested earnings, which was substantially offset by a reduction in valuation allowances.As of May 31, 2018, we had gross unrecognized income tax benefits of $202 million, of which $196 million would affect our effective tax rate in the future, if recognized. In 2018, the Tax Act reduced unrecognized tax benefits by $126 million. The amount accrued for interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions was not material for any period presented.We operate in a number of tax jurisdictions outside the United States, including Singapore, where we have tax incentive arrangements that are conditional, in part, upon meeting certain business operations and employment thresholds. Other indirect operating income and expenses are generally allocated to segments based on their respective percentage of cost of goods sold or forecasted wafer production. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONSThis discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes for the year ended August 31, 2017. All period references are to our fiscal periods unless otherwise indicated. Our fiscal year is the 52 or 53-week period ending on the Thursday closest to August 31. Our fiscal 2018 and 2017 each contain 52 weeks. All production data includes the production of IMFT and Inotera. All tabular dollar amounts are in millions, except per share amounts.Our Management's Discussion and Analysis is provided in addition to the accompanying consolidated financial statements and notes to assist readers in understanding our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Through our global brands – Micron, Crucial, and Ballistix – our broad portfolio of high-performance memory and storage technologies, including DRAM, NAND, NOR Flash, and 3D XPoint memory, is transforming how the world uses information to enrich life. Backed by nearly 40 years of technology leadership, our memory and storage solutions enable disruptive trends, including artificial intelligence, machine learning, and autonomous vehicles in key market segments like cloud, data center, networking, and mobile.We manufacture our products at our worldwide wholly-owned and joint venture facilities. In recent years, we have increased our manufacturing scale and product diversity through strategic acquisitions, expansion, and various partnering arrangements.We make significant investments to develop proprietary product and process technology, which is implemented in our manufacturing facilities. We generally increase the density per wafer and reduce manufacturing costs of each generation of product through advancements in product and process technology, such as our leading-edge line-width process technology and 3D NAND architecture. Storage products incorporating NAND, a controller, and firmware constitute a significant portion of our sales. We generally develop firmware and expect to introduce proprietary controllers into our SSDs in new products starting in 2018. Development of advanced technologies enables us to diversify our product portfolio toward a richer mix of differentiated, high-value solutions and target high-growth markets.We market our products through our internal sales force, independent sales representatives, and distributors primarily to original equipment manufacturers and retailers around the world. We face intense competition in the semiconductor memory and storage markets and, in order to remain competitive, we must continuously develop and implement new products and technologies and decrease manufacturing costs. Solid execution and strong demand for products across our primary markets, particularly in mobile, cloud server, client, and enterprise server, drove higher sales for all operating segments in the first nine months of 2018 as compared to the first nine months of 2017. CNBU, MBU, and EBU sales increased in the third quarter of 2018 as compared to the third quarter of 2017. 25Gross MarginOur overall gross margin percentage increased to 61% for the third quarter of 2018 from 58% for the second quarter of 2018 primarily due to strong market conditions for our CNBU, MBU, and EBU operating segments that drove favorable pricing conditions, combined with overall reductions in manufacturing costs. Cost reductions for the third quarter of 2018 were enabled by strong execution and the continued growth in product offerings and sales for server and mobile products featuring our 1X nm DRAM technology as well as SSD and managed NAND products featuring our TLC 3D NAND.Our overall gross margin percentage increased to 61% for the third quarter of 2018 from 47% for the third quarter of 2017 and increased to 58% for the first nine months of 2018 from 38% for the first nine months of 2017, reflecting increases in the gross margin percentages for CNBU, MBU, and EBU, primarily due to favorable market conditions combined with strong execution in delivering high-value products featuring our 1X nm DRAM and TLC 3D NAND technologies that enabled manufacturing cost reductions. From January 2016 through December 6, 2016, the date we acquired the remaining interest in Inotera, we purchased all of Inotera's DRAM output under supply agreements at prices based on a formula that equally shared margin between Inotera and us. For the first quarter of 2017, we purchased $504 million of DRAM products from Inotera under these agreements, representing 37% of our aggregate DRAM bit production.Operating Results by Business SegmentsCNBU Third Quarter Second Quarter Nine Months 2018 2017 2018 2018 2017Net sales$3,988 $2,389 $3,691 $10,891 $5,776Operating income2,615 1,219 2,329 6,858 2,159CNBU sales for the third quarter of 2018 increased 8% as compared to the second quarter of 2018 primarily due to higher sales into high value cloud server, enterprise server, and graphics markets. CNBU operating income improved for the third quarter of 2018 compared to the second quarter of 2018 primarily due to strong demand and manufacturing cost reductions. See "Operating Results by Product – DRAM" for further detail.CNBU sales for the third quarter and first nine months of 2018 increased 67% and 89%, respectively, as compared to the corresponding periods of 2017 due to strong market conditions and demand in key markets including cloud server, client, and enterprise server markets, which drove increases in pricing and sales volumes. CNBU operating income for the third quarter and first nine months of 2018 improved from the corresponding periods of 2017 primarily due to improved pricing and manufacturing cost reductions.MBU Third Quarter Second Quarter Nine Months 2018 2017 2018 2018 2017Net sales$1,753 $1,129 $1,566 $4,684 $3,243Operating income860 304 689 2,054 563MBU sales are comprised primarily of mobile LPDRAM and managed NAND products. MBU sales for the third quarter of 2018 increased 12% as compared to the second quarter of 2018 primarily due to significant increases in high-value managed NAND products driven by strong acceptance of our TLC managed NAND product in smartphone markets. MBU operating income for the third quarter of 2018 improved from the second quarter of 2018 primarily due to improved pricing resulting from strong demand for our products, manufacturing cost reductions, and increases in sales of managed NAND products.MBU sales for the third quarter and first nine months of 2018 increased 55% and 44%, respectively, as compared to the corresponding periods of 2017 primarily due to customer qualifications for LPDRAM and managed NAND products, which combined with higher memory content in smartphones to drive improvements in DRAM pricing and increases in sales volumes. MBU operating income for the third quarter and first nine months of 2018 improved from the corresponding periods of 2017 primarily due to increases in pricing for LPDRAM products, manufacturing cost reductions, and higher sales volumes.26SBU Third Quarter Second Quarter Nine Months 2018 2017 2018 2018 2017Net sales$1,143 $1,316 $1,254 $3,780 $3,217Operating income156 276 251 807 302SBU sales of Trade NAND products for the third quarter of 2018 decreased 9% as compared to the second quarter of 2018 due to lower NAND component sales as a result of declines in selling prices and a reallocation of supply to mobile managed NAND products, partially offset by increases in SSD sales driven by strong demand in cloud and enterprise markets for products incorporating our TLC 3D NAND technology. SBU Non-Trade sales were $122 million for the third quarter of 2018 as compared to $136 million for the second quarter of 2018 and $138 million for the third quarter of 2017. See "Operating Results by Product – Trade NAND" for further details.SBU sales of Trade NAND products for the third quarter 2018 decreased 13% as compared to the third quarter of 2017 despite increases in sales volumes from strong demand, particularly for sales of SSD products into the cloud market, due to declines in component NAND sales. SBU sales of Trade NAND products for the first nine months of 2018 increased 19% as compared to the first nine months of 2017 primarily due to increases in sales volumes from strong demand, particularly for sales of SSD products into the cloud market. SBU sales of SSD storage products for the third quarter and first nine months of 2018 increased by 37% and 74%, respectively, as compared to the corresponding periods of 2017 driven by strong demand in cloud and client markets for products incorporating our TLC 3D NAND technology. SBU operating income for the first nine months of 2018 improved from the first nine months of 2017 primarily due to manufacturing cost reductions and improvements in product mix.EBU Third Quarter Second Quarter Nine Months 2018 2017 2018 2018 2017Net sales$897 $700 $829 $2,556 $1,868Operating income386 256 363 1,091 627EBU sales are comprised of products incorporating DRAM, NAND, and NOR Flash in decreasing order of revenue. EBU sales for the third quarter of 2018 increased 8% from the second quarter of 2018 due to higher sales across all EBU markets including consumer, automotive, and industrial multimarkets. EBU operating income for the third quarter of 2018 increased from the second quarter of 2018 primarily due to strong demand.EBU sales for the third quarter and first nine months of 2018 increased 28% and 37%, respectively, as compared to the corresponding periods of 2017 primarily due to strong demand across EBU's primary markets including consumer, industrial multimarkets, and automotive. Information regarding products that combine both NAND and DRAM components is reported within Trade NAND. Increases in DRAM product revenue for the third quarter and first nine months of 2018 as compared to the corresponding periods of 2017 resulted from strong conditions across key markets, particularly for cloud, enterprise, mobile, and graphics markets. The increase in average selling prices for the third quarter of 2018 as compared to the second quarter of 2018 was due to an increase in sales of our managed NAND products, which generally have significantly higher selling prices than other NAND products, partially offset by modest declines in market pricing for our trade NAND products. Increases in NAND revenue for the third quarter and first nine months of 2018 as compared to the corresponding periods of 2017 primarily resulted from increases in sales of managed NAND and SSD products. We expect to continue to jointly develop NAND technologies with Intel through the third generation of 3D NAND, which is expected to be completed in 2019. In the second quarter of 2018, we and Intel mutually agreed to independently develop subsequent generations of 3D NAND in order to better optimize the technology and products for each individual business' needs. The Tax Act imposes a Repatriation Tax in 2018; provides a U.S. federal tax exemption on foreign earnings distributed to the United States; and, beginning in 2019, creates a Foreign Minimum Tax. The Tax Act allows us to elect to pay any Repatriation Tax due in eight annual interest-free payments in increasing amounts beginning in December 2018. Provisional amounts may be adjusted during a one-year measurement period as accounting for the income tax effects of the Tax Act are completed or as estimates are revised.In accordance with SAB 118, we recorded certain provisional estimates included in the table above. Although the provisional estimates are based on the best available interpretations of the Tax Act, the final impacts may differ from the estimates due to, among other things, the issuance of additional regulatory and legislative guidance related to the Tax Act.As noted above, provisional estimates were recorded for the Repatriation Tax and the release of the valuation allowance on the net deferred tax assets of our U.S. operations. To determine the amount of the Repatriation Tax, we must determine the accumulated foreign earnings of our foreign subsidiaries and the amount of foreign income tax paid on such earnings. The provisional estimate of the Repatriation Tax is also based, in part, on the amount of cash and other specified assets anticipated to be held by our foreign subsidiaries as of August 30, 2018, the end of our fiscal year 2018, which will determine the portion of the accumulated foreign earnings taxed at an effective rate of 15.5% or 8%. The provisional estimate for the Repatriation Tax was revised in the third quarter of 2018, and may continue to be revised as amounts are finalized. The U.S. Department of Treasury has issued interpretive guidance regarding the Repatriation Tax and we expect that it will issue additional guidance. Based on the information available, we can reasonably estimate the Repatriation Tax and therefore recorded a provisional amount; however, we are continuing to gather additional information and analyze authoritative guidance to finalize the computation of the Repatriation Tax as well as the impacts on the valuation allowance release of the Repatriation Tax and the Tax Act.During the third quarter of 2018, we reassessed our capital structure, including our Board of Directors' authorization to repurchase up to $10 billion of our outstanding common stock beginning in 2019, the future cash needs of our global operations, and the effects of the Tax Act. As a result of this reassessment, we deemed a portion of our foreign earnings to be no longer indefinitely invested. As a result of the Repatriation Tax, substantially all of our accumulated foreign earnings prior to December 31, 2017 were subject to U.S. federal taxation. Although we have provided for U.S. federal income tax on these earnings, the repatriation to the United States of all or a portion of these earnings would be subject to foreign and state income tax. As a result, in the third quarter of 2018, we recognized income tax provision of $68 million for deferred tax liabilities associated with our reassessment of our indefinitely reinvested earnings, which was substantially offset by a reduction in valuation allowances.We operate in a number of locations outside the Unites States, including Singapore, where we have tax incentive arrangements that are conditional, in part, upon meeting certain business operations and employment thresholds. The Tax Act establishes a new provision designed to impose the Foreign Minimum Tax beginning in 2019. Consequently, we may incur additional U.S. tax expense on income of our foreign subsidiaries that could offset a significant portion of the benefits realized from our tax incentive arrangements. Beginning in 2019, our effective tax rate may increase to the low teens percentage depending on profitability.30OtherNet interest expense decreased 28% for the third quarter of 2018 as compared to the second quarter of 2018 primarily due to decreases in debt obligations in the first nine months of 2018. Net interest expense decreased 69% for the third quarter of 2018 as compared to the third quarter of 2017 primarily due to decreases in debt obligations, as well as an increase in capitalized interest from higher levels of capital spending. Interest income also increased in the third quarter of 2018 as compared to the third quarter of 2017 primarily due to increases in our aggregate cash and investments. Net interest expense decreased 52% for the first nine months of 2018 as compared to the first nine months of 2017 primarily due to decreases in debt obligations, increases in interest income as a result of increases in our aggregate cash and investments, and increases in capitalized interest.Further discussion of other operating and non-operating income and expenses can be found in "Item 1. Cash generated from operations is highly dependent on selling prices for our products, which can vary significantly from period to period. We are continuously evaluating alternatives for efficiently funding our capital expenditures and ongoing operations. We expect, from time to time in the future, to engage in a variety of financing transactions for such purposes, including the issuance of securities. We have an undrawn revolving credit facility that expires in February 2020 and provides for additional borrowings of up to $750 million based on eligible receivables. We estimate that expenditures in 2018 for property, plant, and equipment, net of partner contributions, to be approximately $8 billion, focused on technology transitions and product enablement. The actual amounts for 2018 will vary depending on market conditions. As of May 31, 2018, we had commitments of approximately $1.6 billion for the acquisition of property, plant, and equipment, substantially all of which is expected to be paid within one year.As the cost and complexity of DRAM and NAND scaling increases with each subsequent technology node, additional space and equipment is required to manufacture the increasingly complex architectures of these leading technologies to maintain wafer capacity and meet market demand. In March 2018, we announced plans to add clean-room space in our NAND and DRAM fabrication network and commenced activities to build additional clean-room space in Singapore, adjacent to our existing NAND facility, which enables the transition of our existing wafer capacity to future 3D NAND nodes. We expect to build out this facility in phases aligned with our manufacturing requirements and market demands, with the first phase of the clean room expected to be completed by the summer of 2019 and initial wafer output from the facility expected in the fourth quarter of calendar 2019.In May 2018, we announced that our Board of Directors had authorized the discretionary repurchase of up to $10 billion of our outstanding common stock beginning in 2019. The repurchase authorization does not obligate us to acquire any common stock.Cash and marketable investments totaled $7.56 billion and $6.05 billion as of May 31, 2018 and August 31, 2017, respectively. Our investments consist primarily of money market funds and liquid investment-grade fixed-income securities, diversified among industries and individual issuers. To mitigate credit risk, we invest through high-credit-quality financial institutions and by policy generally limit the concentration of credit exposure by restricting the amount of investments with any single obligor. As of May 31, 2018, $4.60 billion of our cash and marketable investments was held by our foreign subsidiaries.In October 2017, we issued 34 million shares of our common stock for $41.00 per share in a public offering for proceeds of $1.36 billion, net of underwriting fees and other offering costs. In the first nine months of 2018, we paid $6.15 billion in cash to prepay, repurchase, and settle conversions of debt with an aggregate principal amount of $4.73 billion. See "Item 1. Financial 31Statements – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Debt." As a result of the corporate reorganization proceedings of MMJ initiated in March 2012, and for so long as such proceedings are continuing, the MMJ Group is prohibited from paying dividends to us. In addition, pursuant to an order of the Japan Court, the MMJ Group cannot make loans or advances, other than certain ordinary course advances, to us without the consent of the Japan Court and may, under certain circumstances, be subject to the approval of the legal trustee. As a result, the assets of the MMJ Group are not available for use by us in our other operations. The 2021 MSTW Term Loan contains covenants that limit or restrict the ability of MSTW and MTTW to pay dividends. As a result, the assets of MSTW and MTTW are not available for use by us in our other operations. Our ability to access funds held by IMFT to finance our other operations is subject to agreement by Intel and contractual limitations. Determination of the amount of unrecognized deferred tax liabilities related to investments in these foreign subsidiaries is not practicable.During the third quarter of 2018, we reassessed our capital structure, including our Board of Directors' authorization to repurchase up to $10 billion of our outstanding common stock beginning in 2019, the future cash needs of our global operations, and the effects of the Tax Act. As a result of this reassessment, we deemed a portion of our foreign earnings to be no longer indefinitely invested. As a result of the Repatriation Tax, substantially all of our accumulated foreign earnings prior to December 31, 2017 were subject to U.S. federal taxation. Although we have provided for U.S. federal income tax on these earnings, the repatriation to the United States of all or a portion of these earnings would be subject to foreign and state income tax. As a result, in the third quarter of 2018, we recognized income tax provision of $68 million for deferred tax liabilities associated with our reassessment of our indefinitely reinvested earnings, which was substantially offset by a reduction in valuation allowances. Cash paid for financing activities was partially offset by net proceeds of $1.36 billion from the issuance of 34 million shares of our common stock for $41.00 per share in a public offering and $969 million of proceeds from IMFT Member Debt. For the first nine months of 2017, net cash provided by financing activities consisted primarily of $2.48 billion of proceeds from the 2021 MSTW Term Loan, $620 million of proceeds from the 2021 MSAC Term Loan, partially offset by repurchases of $952 million in aggregate principal of our 2025 Notes and 2026 Notes for an aggregate of $1.00 billion in cash and repayments of $774 million of other debt. See "Item 1. Financial Statements – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Debt." The following table summarizes the potential settlements that we could be required to make related to the calendar quarter ending September 30, 2018 if all holders converted their notes. The amounts in the table below are based on our closing share price of $57.59 as of May 31, 2018. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 31, 2017. These estimates involve significant judgment and interpretations of regulations and are inherently complex. Resolution of income tax treatments in individual jurisdictions may not be known for many years after completion of any fiscal year. We are also required to evaluate the realizability of our deferred tax assets on an ongoing basis in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which requires the assessment of our performance and other relevant factors. Realization of deferred tax assets is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income. In recent periods, our results of operations have benefitted from increases in the amount of deferred taxes we expect to realize, primarily from the levels of capital spending and increases in the amount of taxable income we expect to realize in Japan and Taiwan. Our income tax provision or benefit is dependent, in part, on our ability to forecast future taxable income in these and other jurisdictions. Such forecasts are inherently difficult and involve significant judgments including, among others, projecting future average selling prices and sales volumes, manufacturing and overhead costs, levels of capital spending, and other factors that significantly impact our analyses of the amount of net deferred tax assets that are more likely than not to be realized.In the first nine months of 2018, we recognized a benefit for income taxes of $91 million as a result of the Tax Act, which included a $224 million provisional estimate for income tax benefits, offset by $133 million of income tax provision related to the impact of remeasuring our deferred tax assets and liabilities to reflect the lower tax rate pursuant to the Tax Act. The provisional estimate included $1.11 billion of expense associated with the Repatriation Tax and a benefit of $1.34 billion for the release of the valuation allowance on the net deferred tax assets of our U.S. operations. Based on the information available, we can reasonably estimate the Repatriation Tax and therefore recorded a provisional amount; however, we are continuing to gather additional information and analyze authoritative guidance to finalize the computation of the Repatriation Tax as well as the impacts on the valuation allowance release of the Repatriation Tax and the Tax Act. The provisional estimate for the Repatriation Tax was revised in the third quarter of 2018, and may continue to be revised as amounts are finalized.Recently Issued Accounting StandardsSee "Item 1. Financial Statements – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Recently Issued Accounting Standards. "ITEM 3. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISKWe are affected by changes in currency exchange and interest rates. See discussion regarding certain interest rate risks below. For further discussion about market risk and sensitivity analysis related to changes in currency exchange rates, see "Part II – Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 31, 2017.Interest Rate RiskWe are exposed to interest rate risk related to our indebtedness and our investment portfolio. As of May 31, 2018 and August 31, 2017, the carrying value of our debt with fixed interest rates was $3.7 billion and $5.7 billion, respectively, and as a result, the fair value of our debt fluctuates with changes in market interest rates. We estimate that, as of May 31, 2018 and August 31, 2017, a decrease in market interest rates of 1% would increase the fair value of our fixed-rate debt by approximately $83 million and $273 million, respectively.34ITEM 4. Based upon that evaluation, the principal executive officer and principal financial officer concluded that those disclosure controls and procedures were effective to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act are recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the Commission's rules and forms and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including the principal executive officer and principal financial officer, to allow timely decision regarding disclosure.During the third quarter of 2018, there were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.PART II. OTHER INFORMATIONITEM 1. LEGAL PROCEEDINGSFor a discussion of legal proceedings, see "Part I – Item 3. Legal Proceedings" of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 31, 2017 and "Part I. Financial Information – Item 1. Financial Statements – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Contingencies" and "Item 1A. Risk Factors" herein.ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSIn addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this Form 10-Q, the following are important factors, the order of which is not necessarily indicative of the level of risk that each poses to us, which could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements made by us. Our operations could also be affected by other factors that are presently unknown to us or not considered significant. Any of the factors below could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, or stock price.We have experienced volatility in average selling prices for our semiconductor memory and storage products which may adversely affect our business. We have experienced significant volatility in our average selling prices, including dramatic declines, as noted in the table below, and may continue to experience such volatility in the future. In some prior periods, average selling prices for our products have been below our manufacturing costs and we may experience such circumstances in the future. Decreases in average selling prices for our products that decline faster than our costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. In future periods, we may be unable to reduce our per gigabit manufacturing costs at sufficient levels to maintain or improve gross margins. Factors that may limit our ability to reduce costs include, but are not limited to, strategic product diversification decisions affecting product mix, the increasing complexity of manufacturing processes, difficulties in transitioning to smaller line-width process technologies, 3D memory layers, NAND cell levels, process complexity including number of mask layers and fabrication steps, manufacturing yield, technological barriers, changes in process technologies, and new products that may require relatively larger die sizes. Per gigabit manufacturing costs may also be affected by a broader product portfolio, which may have smaller production quantities and shorter product lifecycles. Our inability to maintain or improve gross margins could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.The semiconductor memory and storage markets are highly competitive.We face intense competition in the semiconductor memory and storage markets from a number of companies, including Intel; Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.; SK Hynix Inc.; Toshiba Memory Corporation; and Western Digital Corporation. Some of our competitors are large corporations or conglomerates that may have greater resources to invest in technology, capitalize on growth opportunities, and withstand downturns in the semiconductor markets in which we compete. Consolidation of industry competitors could put us at a competitive disadvantage. In particular, we face the threat of increasing competition as a result of significant investment in the semiconductor industry by the Chinese government and various state-owned or affiliated entities that is intended to advance China's stated national policy objectives. The activities by the Chinese government may restrict us from participating in the China market or may prevent us from competing effectively with Chinese companies.Our competitors generally seek to increase silicon capacity, improve yields, and reduce die size in their product designs which may result in significant increases in worldwide supply and downward pressure on prices. Increases in worldwide supply of semiconductor memory and storage also result from fabrication capacity expansions, either by way of new facilities, increased capacity utilization, or reallocation of other semiconductor production to semiconductor memory and storage production. Our competitors may increase capital expenditures resulting in future increases in worldwide supply. We and some of our competitors have plans to ramp, or are constructing or ramping, production at new fabrication facilities. Increases in worldwide supply of semiconductor memory and storage, if not accompanied by commensurate increases in demand, would lead to further declines in average selling prices for our products and would materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. If competitors are more successful at developing or implementing new product or process technology, their products could have cost or performance advantages.The competitive nature of our industry could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.Debt obligations could adversely affect our financial condition.As of May 31, 2018, we had debt with a carrying value of $7.34 billion. In addition, the conversion value in excess of principal of our convertible notes as of May 31, 2018 was $3.21 billion. In the first nine months of 2018, and full years of 2017 and 2016, we paid $6.15 billion and issued 4 million shares of our treasury stock, $1.63 billion, and $94 million, respectively, to prepay, repurchase, and settle conversions of debt with principal amounts of $4.73 billion, $1.55 billion, and $57 million, respectively. As of May 31, 2018, we had an undrawn revolving credit facility that provided for additional borrowings of up to $750 million based on eligible receivables. Events and circumstances may occur which could cause us to not be able to satisfy applicable draw-down conditions and utilize this revolving credit facility. We have incurred in the past, and expect to incur in the future, debt to finance our capital investments, business acquisitions, and restructuring of our capital structure. Our debt obligations could adversely impact us. This, to some extent, is subject to market, economic, financial, competitive, legislative, and regulatory factors as well as other factors that are beyond our control. There can be no assurance that our business will generate cash flow from operations, or that additional capital will be available to us, in amounts sufficient to enable us to meet our debt payment obligations and to fund other liquidity needs. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows to service our debt payment obligations, we may need to refinance or restructure our debt, sell assets, reduce or delay capital investments, or seek to raise additional capital. If we are unable to implement one or more of these alternatives, we may be unable to meet our debt payment obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.We may be unable to generate sufficient cash flows or obtain access to external financing necessary to fund our operations, make scheduled debt payments, and make adequate capital investments.Our cash flows from operations depend primarily on the volume of semiconductor memory and storage products sold, average selling prices, and manufacturing costs. We estimate that net cash expenditures in 2018 for property, plant, and equipment will be approximately $8 billion, which reflects the offset of amounts we expect to be funded by our partners. Investments in capital expenditures, offset by amounts funded by our partners, were $2.10 billion in the third quarter of 2018. As of May 31, 2018, we had cash and marketable investments of $7.56 billion. As of May 31, 2018, $1.28 billion of cash and marketable investments, including substantially all of the cash held by the MMJ Group, MSTW, and MTTW, was held by foreign subsidiaries whose earnings were considered to be indefinitely reinvested. As a result of the Tax Act, substantially all of our accumulated foreign earnings prior to December 31, 2017 were treated as taxable; however, the repatriation of all or a portion of these earnings would continue to be subject to foreign and state tax upon repatriation to the United States. In addition, pursuant to an order of the Japan Court, MMJ cannot make loans or advances, other than certain ordinary course advances, to us without the consent of the Japan Court and may, under certain circumstances, be subject to approval of the legal trustee. As a result, the assets of MMJ are not available for use by us in our other operations. As a result of our debt levels, expected debt amortization, and general economic conditions, it may be difficult for us to obtain financing on terms acceptable to us. There can be no assurance that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flows, use cash held by MMJ to fund its capital 37expenditures, access capital markets or find other sources of financing to fund our operations, make debt payments, and make adequate capital investments to remain competitive in terms of technology development and cost efficiency. Our inability to do any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.Our future success depends on our ability to develop and produce competitive new memory and storage technologies.Our key semiconductor memory and storage products and technologies face technological barriers to continue to meet long-term customer needs. To meet these requirements, we expect that new memory technologies will be developed by the semiconductor memory and storage industry. Accordingly, our future success may depend on our ability to develop and produce viable and competitive new memory and storage technologies. There is no assurance that our efforts to develop and market new product technologies will be successful. Unsuccessful efforts to develop new semiconductor memory and storage technologies could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.New product development may be unsuccessful.We are developing new products, including system-level memory and storage products and solutions, which complement our traditional products or leverage their underlying design or process technology. We have made significant investments in product and process technology and anticipate expending significant resources for new semiconductor product and system-level solution development over the next several years. The process to develop new products requires us to demonstrate advanced functionality and performance, often well in advance of a planned ramp of production, in order to secure design wins with our customers. These joint ventures and strategic relationships are subject to various risks that could adversely affect the value of our investments and our results of operations. A disruption in our relationship with any of these customers could adversely affect our business. We could experience fluctuations in our customer base or the mix of revenue by customer as markets and strategies evolve. In addition, any consolidation of our customers could reduce the number of customers to whom our products could be sold. Our inability to meet our customers' requirements or to qualify our products with them could adversely impact our sales. The loss of one or more of our major customers or any significant reduction in orders from, or a shift in product mix by, these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.Increases in sales of system solutions may increase our dependency upon specific customers and our costs to develop and qualify our system solutions.Our development of system-level memory and storage products is dependent, in part, upon successfully identifying and meeting our customers' specifications of those products. Developing and manufacturing system-level products with specifications unique to a customer increases our reliance upon that customer for purchasing our products in sufficient volume, quantity, and in a timely manner. If we fail to identify or develop products on a timely basis, or at all, that comply with our customers' specifications or achieve design wins with our customers, we may experience a significant adverse impact on our sales and margins. Even if our products meet customer specifications, our sales of system-level solutions are dependent upon our customers choosing our products over those of our competitors and purchasing our products at sufficient volumes and prices. Our competitors' products may be less costly, provide better performance, or include additional features when compared to our products. Our long-term ability to sell system-level memory and storage products is reliant upon our customer's ability to create, market, and sell their products containing our system-level solutions at sufficient volumes and prices in a timely manner. If we fail to successfully develop and market system-level products, our business, results of operations, or financial condition may be materially adversely affected.Even if we are successful in selling system-level solutions to our customers in sufficient volume, we may be unable to generate sufficient profit if our per-unit manufacturing costs exceed our per-unit selling prices. Manufacturing system-level solutions to customer specifications requires a longer development cycle, as compared to discrete products, to design, test, and qualify, which may increase our costs. Additionally, some of our system solutions are increasingly dependent on sophisticated firmware that may require significant customization to meet customer specifications, which increases our costs and time to market. System complexities and extended warranties for system-level products could also increase our warranty costs. From time to time, we experience problems with nonconforming, defective, or incompatible products after we have shipped such products. In recent periods, we have further diversified and expanded our product offerings, which could potentially increase the chance that one or more of our products could fail to meet specifications in a particular application. Despite our system of controls over our intellectual property, it may be possible for our current or future competitors to obtain, copy, use, or disclose, illegally or otherwise, our product and process technology. The laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property to the same degree as do U.S. laws and our confidentiality, non-disclosure, and non-compete agreements may be unenforceable or difficult and costly to enforce.Additionally, our ability to maintain and develop intellectual property is dependent upon our ability to attract, develop, and retain highly skilled employees. Global competition for such skilled employees in our industry is intense. If our competitors or future entrants into our industry are successful in hiring our employees, they may directly benefit from the knowledge these employees gained while they were under our employment.Our inability to protect our intellectual property or retain key employees who are knowledgeable of and develop our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.Claims that our products or manufacturing processes infringe or otherwise violate the intellectual property rights of others, or failure to obtain or renew license agreements covering such intellectual property, could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition.As is typical in the semiconductor and other high technology industries, from time to time others have asserted, and may in the future assert, that our products or manufacturing processes infringe upon, misappropriate, misuse, or otherwise violate their intellectual property rights. We are unable to predict the outcome of these assertions made against us. Any of these types of claims, regardless of the merits, could subject us to significant costs to defend or resolve such claims and may consume a substantial portion of management's time and attention. 40We may not be able to take any of the actions described above on commercially reasonable terms and any of the foregoing results could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. Financial Information – Item 1. Financial Statements – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Contingencies. Some of these license agreements require us to make one-time or periodic payments. We may need to obtain additional licenses or renew existing license agreements in the future. We are unable to predict whether these license agreements can be obtained or renewed on terms acceptable to us. The failure to obtain or renew licenses as necessary could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.We have been served with several complaints in a Chinese court alleging patent infringement.We have been served with several complaints in a Chinese court alleging we infringe certain Chinese patents by manufacturing and selling certain products in China. The complaints seek orders requiring us to destroy inventory of the accused products and equipment for manufacturing the accused products in China, to stop manufacturing, using, selling, and offering for sale the accused products in China, and to pay damages plus court fees.We are unable to predict the outcome of these assertions of infringement made against us and therefore cannot estimate the range of possible loss. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. Financial Information – Item 1. Financial Statements – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Contingencies. Any claim, with or without merit, could result in significant legal fees that could negatively impact our financial results, disrupt our operations, and require significant attention from our management. We could be subject to litigation or arbitration disputes arising from our relationships with vendors or customers, supply agreements, or contractual obligations with our subcontractors or business partners. We may also be associated with and subject to litigation arising from the actions of our subcontractors or business partners. We may also be subject to litigation as a result of indemnities we issue, primarily with our customers, the terms of our product warranties, and from product liability claims. There can be no assurance that we are adequately insured to protect against all claims and potential liabilities, and we may elect to self-insure with respect to certain matters. Exposures to various litigation could lead to significant costs and expenses as we defend claims, be required to pay damage awards, or enter into settlement agreements, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.If our manufacturing process is disrupted, our business, results of operations, or financial condition could be materially adversely affected.We and our subcontractors manufacture products using highly complex processes that require technologically advanced equipment and continuous modification to improve yields and performance. Difficulties in the manufacturing process or the effects from a shift in product mix can reduce yields or disrupt production and may increase our per gigabit manufacturing costs. We and our subcontractors maintain operations and continuously implement new product and process technology at manufacturing facilities, which are widely dispersed in multiple locations in several countries including the United States, Singapore, Taiwan, Japan, Malaysia, and China. Additionally, our control over operations at IMFT is limited by our agreements with Intel. From time to time, there have been disruptions in the manufacturing process as a result of power outages, improperly functioning equipment, equipment failures, earthquakes, or other environmental events. If production is disrupted for any reason, manufacturing yields may be adversely affected or we may be unable to meet our customers' requirements and they may purchase products from other suppliers. The interlocutory judgments have no immediate, enforceable effect on us, and, accordingly, we expect to be able to continue to operate with full control of the Inotera Shares subject to further developments in the case. We have filed a notice of appeal, and the parties have submitted briefs to the appeals court.We are unable to predict the outcome of the matter and, therefore, cannot estimate the range of possible loss. In 2016, we initiated a restructure plan in response to business conditions and the need to accelerate focus on our key priorities. The plan included the elimination of certain projects and programs, the permanent closure of a number of open headcount requisitions, workforce reductions in certain areas of our business, and other non-headcount related spending reductions. As a result of these and other actions, we incurred charges of $18 million, $67 million, and $3 million for 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively.We may not realize expected savings or other benefits from our restructure activities and may incur additional restructure charges or other losses in future periods associated with other initiatives. In connection with any restructure initiatives, we could incur restructure charges, loss of production output, loss of key personnel, disruptions in our operations, and difficulties in the timely delivery of products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.42Breaches of our security systems could expose us to losses.We maintain a system of controls over the physical security of our facilities. We also manage and store various proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data relating to our operations. In addition, we process, store, and transmit large amounts of data relating to our customers and employees, including sensitive personal information. Unauthorized persons or employees may gain access to our facilities or network systems to steal trade secrets or other proprietary information, compromise confidential information, create system disruptions, or cause shutdowns. These parties may also be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that disrupt our operations and create security vulnerabilities. We recorded net losses from changes in currency exchange rates of $60 million for the first nine months of 2018, $74 million for 2017, and $24 million for 2016. Based on our foreign currency balances of monetary assets and liabilities, as of May 31, 2018, we estimate that a 10% adverse change in exchange rates versus the U.S. dollar would result in losses of approximately $303 million. Although we hedge our primary exposures to changes in currency exchange rates from our monetary assets and liabilities, the effectiveness of these hedges is dependent upon our ability to accurately forecast our monetary assets and liabilities. In addition, a significant portion of our manufacturing costs are denominated in foreign currencies. Exchange rates for some of these currencies against the U.S. dollar, particularly the yen, have been volatile in recent periods. If these currencies strengthen against the U.S. dollar, our manufacturing costs could significantly increase. The global memory and storage industry has experienced consolidation and may continue to consolidate. We engage, from time to time, in discussions regarding potential acquisitions and similar opportunities. To the extent we are successful in completing any such transactions, we could be subject to some or all of the risks described above, including the risks pertaining to funding, assumption of liabilities, integration challenges, and increases in debt that may accompany such transactions. Acquisitions of, or alliances with, technology companies are inherently risky and may not be successful and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.43The limited availability and quality of raw materials, supplies, or capital equipment could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition.Our operations require raw materials, and in certain cases, third party services, that meet exacting standards. We generally have multiple sources of supply for our raw materials and services. However, only a limited number of suppliers are capable of delivering certain raw materials and services that meet our standards. In some cases, materials, components, or services are provided by a single supplier. In addition, disruptions in transportation lines could delay our receipt of raw materials. Lead times for the supply of raw materials have been extended in the past. The disruption of our supply or quality of raw materials or services or the extension of our lead times could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.Our operations are dependent on our ability to procure advanced semiconductor manufacturing equipment that enables the transition to lower cost manufacturing processes. For certain key types of equipment, including photolithography tools, we are sometimes dependent on a single supplier. From time to time, we have experienced difficulties in obtaining some equipment on a timely basis due to suppliers' limited capacity. Our inability to obtain equipment on a timely basis could adversely affect our ability to transition to next generation manufacturing processes and reduce our costs. Delays in obtaining equipment could also impede our ability to ramp production at new facilities and could increase our overall costs of a ramp. Our inability to obtain advanced semiconductor manufacturing equipment in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.Increases in tariffs or other taxes on our products or equipment and supplies could have an adverse impact on our operations.We sell a significant majority of our products into countries outside the United States and we purchase a significant portion of equipment and supplies from suppliers outside the United States. The United States and other countries have levied tariffs and taxes on certain goods. Adverse economic conditions affect demand for devices that incorporate our products, such as personal computers, mobile devices, SSDs, and servers. Reduced demand for these products could result in significant decreases in our average selling prices and product sales. A deterioration of current conditions in worldwide credit markets could limit our ability to obtain external financing to fund our operations and capital expenditures. In addition, we may experience losses on our holdings of cash and investments due to failures of financial institutions and other parties. Difficult economic conditions may also result in a higher rate of losses on our accounts receivables due to credit defaults. As a result, a downturn in the worldwide economy could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.Our results of operations could be affected by natural disasters and other events in the locations in which we or our customers or suppliers operate. We have manufacturing and other operations in locations subject to natural occurrences such as severe weather and geological events, such as earthquakes or tsunamis, that could disrupt operations. In addition, our suppliers and customers also have operations in such locations. A natural disaster, fire, explosion, or other event that results in a prolonged disruption to our operations, or the operations of our customers or suppliers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.44Our incentives from various governments are conditional upon achieving or maintaining certain performance obligations and are subject to reduction, termination, or clawback. We have received, and may in the future continue to receive, benefits and incentives from national, state, and local governments in various regions of the world designed to encourage us to establish, maintain, or increase investment, workforce, or production in those regions. These incentives may take various forms, including grants, loan subsidies, and tax arrangements, and typically require us to perform or maintain certain levels of investment, capital spending, employment, technology deployment, or research and development activities to qualify for such incentives. We cannot guarantee that we will successfully achieve performance obligations required to qualify for these incentives or that the granting agencies will provide such funding. These incentive arrangements typically provide the granting agencies with rights to audit our performance with the terms and obligations. Such audits could result in modifications to, or termination of, the applicable incentive program. The business trustee is responsible for overseeing the operation of the business of MMJ, other than oversight in relation to acts that need to be carried out in connection with the Japan Proceedings, which are the responsibility of the legal trustee. MMJ's reorganization proceedings in Japan, and oversight of the Japan Court, will continue until the final creditor payment is made under MMJ's plan of reorganization, which is scheduled to occur in December 2019, but may occur on a later date to the extent any claims of creditors remain unfixed on the final scheduled installment payment date. MMJ may petition the Japan Court for an early termination of the reorganization proceedings once two-thirds of all payments under the plan of reorganization are made. Although such early terminations are customarily granted, there can be no assurance that the Japan Court will grant any such petition in this particular case.During the pendency of the reorganization proceedings in Japan, MMJ is obligated to provide periodic financial reports to the Japan Court and may be required to obtain the consent of the Japan Court prior to taking a number of significant actions relating to its businesses, including transferring or disposing of, or acquiring, certain material assets, incurring or guaranteeing material indebtedness, settling material disputes, or entering into certain material agreements. The consent of the legal trustee may also be required for matters that would likely have a material impact on the operations or assets of MMJ or for transfers of material assets, to the extent the matters or transfers would reasonably be expected to materially and adversely affect execution of MMJ's plan of reorganization. Accordingly, during the pendency of the reorganization proceedings in Japan, our ability to operate MMJ as part of our global business or to cause MMJ to take certain actions that we deem advisable for its business could be adversely affected if the Japan Court or the legal trustee is unwilling to consent to various actions that we may wish to take with respect to MMJ.The operations of MMJ being subject to the continued oversight by the Japan Court during the pendency of the corporate reorganization proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.We may incur additional tax expense or become subject to additional tax exposure.We operate in a number of locations outside the United States, including Singapore, where we have tax incentive arrangements that are conditional, in part, upon meeting certain business operations and employment thresholds. Our domestic and international taxes are dependent upon the geographic mix of our earnings among these jurisdictions. Our provision for income taxes and cash tax liabilities in the future could be adversely affected by numerous factors, including challenges by tax authorities to our tax positions and intercompany transfer pricing agreements, income before taxes being lower than anticipated in countries with lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries with higher statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, failure to meet performance obligations with respect to tax incentive agreements, and changes in tax laws and regulations. We file income tax returns with the U.S. federal government, various U.S. states, and various other jurisdictions throughout the world. Our U.S. federal and state tax returns remain open to examination for 2013 through 2017. In addition, tax returns that remain open to examination in Japan range from the years 2012 to 2017, and in Singapore and Taiwan from 2013 to 2017. The results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns and continuing assessments of our tax exposures may have an adverse effect on our provision for income taxes and cash tax liability. The foregoing items could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.45A change in tax laws in key jurisdictions could materially increase our tax expense.On December 22, 2017, the United States enacted the Tax Act which lowers the U.S. corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% and significantly affects how income from our foreign operations are taxed in the United States. As a result of our fiscal year-end, our U.S. statutory federal rate will be 25.7% for 2018, and 21% for subsequent years. Based on the information available, we recorded provisional amounts under SAB 118; however, we are continuing to gather additional information and analyze authoritative guidance to finalize the computation of the Repatriation Tax as well as the impacts on the valuation allowance release of the Repatriation Tax and the Tax Act. The final tax impacts may differ from estimates due to, among other things, the issuance of additional regulatory and legislative guidance. As a result of the Tax Act, our effective tax rate may increase to the low teens percentage depending on profitability.We may not utilize all of our net deferred tax assets.We have substantial deferred tax assets, which include, among others, net operating loss and credit carryforwards. As of August 31, 2017, our U.S. federal and state net operating loss carryforwards, including uncertain tax benefits, were $3.88 billion and $1.95 billion, respectively, which, if not utilized, will expire at various dates from 2028 through 2037 and 2018 through 2037, respectively. As of August 31, 2017, our foreign net operating loss carryforwards were $6.30 billion, which will, if not utilized, substantially all expire at various dates from 2019 through 2026. As of August 31, 2017, we had gross deferred tax assets of $3.78 billion and valuation allowances of $2.32 billion against our deferred tax assets. As of May 31, 2018, after recording the provisional estimated impact of the Tax Act, which includes the utilization of a substantial portion of our U.S. deferred tax assets, we had net deferred tax assets of $1.84 billion and valuation allowances of $855 million against our deferred tax assets. In general, an ownership change will occur when the percentage of our ownership by one or more 5% shareholders has increased by more than 50% at any time during the prior three years. Rights will attach to all shares of the Company’s common stock issued prior to the earlier of the rights' distribution date or expiration date as set forth in the Rights Agreement. The Rights Agreement is intended to avoid an adverse ownership change, thereby preserving our current ability to utilize certain net operating loss and credit carryforwards; however, there is no assurance that the Rights Agreement will prevent all transfers that could result in such an ownership change.If we experience a 50% or greater change in ownership involving shareholders owning 5% or more of our common stock, it could adversely impact our ability to utilize our existing net operating loss and credit carryforwards. These "conflict minerals" are commonly found in materials used in the manufacture of semiconductors. The implementation of these new regulations may limit the sourcing and availability of some of these materials. This in turn may affect our ability to obtain materials necessary for the manufacture of our products in sufficient quantities and may affect related material pricing. Some of our customers may elect to disqualify us as a supplier or reduce purchases from us if we are unable to verify that our products are DRC conflict free. Our inability to comply with the regulations regarding the use of conflict minerals could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.We are subject to a variety of laws and regulations that may result in additional costs and liabilities.The manufacturing of our products requires the use of facilities, equipment, and materials that are subject to a broad array of laws and regulations in numerous jurisdictions in which we operate. Additionally, we are subject to a variety of other laws and regulations relative to the construction, maintenance, and operations of our facilities. Any of these laws or regulations could cause us to incur additional direct costs, as well as increased indirect costs related to our relationships with our customers and suppliers, and otherwise harm our operations and financial condition. Any failure to comply with these laws or regulations could adversely impact our reputation and our financial results. Additionally, we partner with other companies in our joint ventures, which are also subject to a broad array of laws and regulations. Our ownership in these joint ventures may also expose us to risks associated with their respective compliance with these laws and regulations. In addition, a substantial portion of our manufacturing operations are located outside the United States. In particular, a significant portion of our manufacturing operations are concentrated in Singapore, Taiwan, Japan, and China. If we or our customers, suppliers, or vendors are impacted by these risks, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.We are subject to counterparty default risks.We have numerous arrangements with financial institutions that subject us to counterparty default risks, including cash deposits, investments, capped call contracts on our common stock, and derivative instruments. As a result, we are subject to the risk that the counterparty to one or more of these arrangements will default on its performance obligations. A counterparty may not comply with their contractual commitments which could then lead to their defaulting on their obligations with little or no notice to us, which could limit our ability to take action to mitigate our exposure. Additionally, our ability to mitigate our exposures may be constrained by the terms of our contractual arrangements or because market conditions prevent us from taking effective action. If one of our counterparties becomes insolvent or files for bankruptcy, our ability to recover any losses suffered as a result of that counterparty's default may be limited by the liquidity of the counterparty or the applicable laws governing the bankruptcy proceedings. In the event of such default, we could incur significant losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDSIn May 2018, we announced that our Board of Directors had authorized the discretionary repurchase of up to $10 billion of our outstanding common stock beginning in 2019. Those withheld shares of common stock are not considered common stock repurchases under an authorized common stock repurchase plan and accordingly are excluded from the amounts in the table above.48ITEM 6.