Employer I. D. See definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller” reporting company in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. FINANCIAL INFORMATIONITEM 1. In the opinion of management, all adjustments of a normal recurring nature which were considered necessary for fair presentation have been included. The year-end condensed consolidated balance sheet data were derived from audited consolidated financial statements but do not include all disclosures required by GAAP. The results of operations for the three months ended September 29, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the entire year. These condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018. The Company has a 52-to-53-week fiscal year that ends on the last Saturday in June. Accordingly, every fifth or sixth fiscal year will be a 53-week fiscal year. This standard provides a single set of guidelines for revenue recognition to be used across all industries. Under the new standard, revenue is recognized when a customer obtains control of promised goods or services in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. In addition, the new standard requires reporting companies to disclose the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. Results for reporting periods beginning after July 1, 2018 are presented under Topic 606, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with historic accounting standards under Topic 605. There was no impact on the opening retained earnings as of July 1, 2018 due to the adoption of Topic 606. However, in conjunction with the adoption of the new standard, the Company recorded a reclassification of accrued revenue reserves for price adjustments and other revenue reserves from accounts receivable, net to price adjustment and other revenue reserves within current liabilities. The transaction price excludes sales and other similar taxes.Updated Revenue Recognition PolicyThe Company recognizes revenue for sales to direct customers and sales to distributors when a customer obtains control of promised goods or services in an amount that reflects the consideration which the Company expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services. The transaction price is calculated as selling price net of variable considerations, such as distributor price adjustments. In determining the transaction price, the Company evaluates whether the price is subject to refund or adjustment to determine the net consideration that is expected to be entitled. The transaction price does not include amounts collected on behalf of another party, such as sales taxes or value added tax. The Company estimates returns for sales to direct customers and distributors based on historical return rates applied against current period gross revenue. Specific customer returns and allowances are considered within this estimate. Accounts receivable from direct customers and distributors are recognized and inventory is relieved upon shipment as title to inventories generally transfers upon shipment, at which point the Company has a legally enforceable right to collection under normal terms. Accounts receivable related to consigned inventory is recognized when the customer takes title to such inventory from its consigned location, at which point inventory is relieved, title transfers, and the Company has a legally enforceable right to collection under the terms of the agreement with the related customers. Customers are generally required to pay for products and services within the Company’s standard terms, which is net 30 days from the date of invoice. The Company does not have any significant financing components greater than one year. The Company estimates potential future returns and sales allowances related to current period product revenue. Management analyzes historical returns, changes in customer demand and acceptance of products when evaluating the adequacy of returns and sales allowances. Estimates made may differ from actual returns and sales allowances. These differences may materially impact reported revenue and amounts ultimately collected on accounts receivable. Historically, such differences have not been material.Distributor price adjustments are estimated based on our historical experience rates and also considering economic conditions and contractual terms. To date, actual distributor claims activity has been materially consistent with the estimates we have made based on our historical rates.9The Company's revenue arrangements do not contain significant financing components. Revenue is recognized over a period of time when it is assessed that performance obligations are satisfied over a period rather than at a point in time. The application of this ASU was made by the means of a cumulative-effect adjustment to the balance sheet for the equity securities that qualify for the practical expedient to estimate fair value using the net asset value per share. The Company adopted ASU 2016-01 in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019. ASU 2016-16 requires that entities recognize the income tax consequences of an intra-entity transfer of an asset other than inventory when the transfer occurs instead of when the asset is sold. The Company adopted ASU 2016-16 in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019. The application of ASU 2017-07 requires retrospective basis for all periods presented. The Company adopted ASU 2017-07 in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. The amendments in this standard provide guidance about which changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award require an entity to apply modification accounting in Topic 718. Unless the changes in terms or conditions meet all three criteria outlined in the guidance, modification accounting should be applied. The three criteria relate to changes in the terms and conditions that affect the fair value, vesting conditions, or classification of a share-based payment award. The guidance is required to be applied prospectively to an award modified on or after the adoption date. The Company adopted ASU 2017-09 in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. This standard provides guidance about the reclassification from accumulated other comprehensive income to retained earnings for stranded tax effects resulting from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. The Company adopted ASU 2018-02 in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. This ASU largely aligns the accounting for share-based payment awards to employees and non-employees. Under the new guidance, both sets of awards, for employees and non-employees, will essentially follow the same model, with small discrepancies related to the term assumption when valuing non-employee awards. The Company adopted ASU 2018-07 in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. The adoption of this guidance did not have an impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. ASU 2016-02 requires a dual approach for lessee accounting under which a lessee would account for leases as finance leases or operating leases. Both finance leases and operating leases will result in the lessee recognizing a right-of use asset and a 10corresponding lease liability. For finance leases, the lessee would recognize interest expense and amortization of the right-of-use asset, and for operating leases, the lessee would recognize a straight-line total lease expense. The guidance also requires qualitative and specific quantitative disclosures to supplement the amounts recorded in the financial statements so that users can understand more about the nature of an entity’s leasing activities, including significant judgments and changes in judgments. This guidance is effective beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 on a modified retrospective approach. The update highlights adjustments in disclosures for changes in the fair value of Level 1, Level 2, and Level 3 instruments. This guidance is effective beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020, with early adoption permitted. The Company does not believe that this update will have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. This hierarchy requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. The Company’s Level 1 assets consist of money market funds. Level 2 - Observable inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the asset or liability. For the three months ended September 29, 2018, the Company did not record any impairment of long-lived assets. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018, the Company recorded $0.9 million in impairment of long-lived assets in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Income. The Company uses various inputs to evaluate investments in privately held companies, including valuations of recent financing events as well as other relevant information regarding the performance of the issuer. All available-for-sale investments have maturity dates between September 29, 2018 and March 12, 2021.The Company invests in various financial instruments including U.S. Treasury securities, corporate debt securities, commercial paper, and certificates of deposit which include instruments issued or managed by industrial, financial, and utility institutions and U.S. Treasury securities which include U.S. government Treasury bills and Treasury notes.Derivative instruments and hedging activitiesThe Company incurs expenditures denominated in non-U.S. currencies, primarily the Philippine Peso and the Thai Baht associated with the Company's manufacturing activities in the Philippines and Thailand, respectively, and the European Euro, Indian Rupee, Japanese Yen, Taiwan New Dollar, South Korean Won, Chinese Yuan and Canadian Dollar, expenditures for sales offices and research and development activities undertaken outside of the U.S.The Company has established a program that primarily utilizes foreign currency forward contracts to offset the risks associated with the effects of certain foreign currency exposures. As of September 29, 2018 and June 30, 2018, the notional amounts of the forward contracts the Company held to purchase international currencies were $41.8 million and $49.7 million, respectively, and the notional amounts of forward contracts the Company held to sell international currencies were $0.7 million and $1.2 million, respectively. Derivatives not designated as hedging instrumentsAs of September 29, 2018 and June 30, 2018, the notional amounts of the forward contracts the Company held to purchase international currencies were $21.8 million and $21.1 million, respectively, and the notional amounts of forward contracts the Company held to sell international currencies were $25.8 million and $21.3 million, respectively. Interest on the 2027 Notes is payable semi-annually in arrears on June 15 and December 15 of each year, commencing on December 15, 2017. Interest on the 2018 Notes is payable semi-annually in arrears on May 15 and November 15 of each year, commencing on May 15, 2014. Interest on the 2023 Notes is payable semi-annually in arrears on March 15 and September 15 of each year, commencing on September 15, 2013. The net proceeds of this offering were approximately $490 million, after issuing at a discount and deducting paid expenses.The debt indentures that govern the 2027 Notes, the 2023 Notes and the 2018 Notes, respectively, include covenants that limit the Company's ability to grant liens on its facilities and to enter into sale and leaseback transactions, which could limit the Company's ability to secure additional debt funding in the future. In circumstances involving a change of control of the Company followed by a downgrade of the rating of the 2027 Notes, the 2023 Notes or the 2018 Notes, the Company would be required to make an offer to repurchase the affected notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of such notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest. 15The Company accounts for all the notes above based on their amortized cost. Amortized discount and expenses, as well as interest expense associated with the notes, were $12.4 million and $12.6 million during the three months ended September 29, 2018 and September 23, 2017, respectively. The estimated fair value of the Company’s outstanding debt obligations was approximately $1,461 million as of September 29, 2018. The estimated fair value of the debt is based primarily on observable market inputs and is a Level 2 measurement.The Company recorded interest expense of $12.6 million and $12.6 million during the three months ended September 29, 2018, and September 23, 2017, respectively. Credit FacilityRevolving credit facilityThe Company has access to a $350 million senior unsecured revolving credit facility with certain institutional lenders that expires on June 27, 2019. The facility fee is at a rate per annum that varies based on the Company’s index debt rating and any advances under the credit agreement will accrue interest at a base rate plus a margin based on the Company’s index debt rating. As of September 29, 2018, the Company had not borrowed any amounts from this credit facility and was in compliance with all debt covenants.Other Financial InstrumentsFor the balance of the Company’s financial instruments, cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable and other accrued liabilities, the carrying amounts approximate fair value due to their short maturities. Pursuant to the 1996 Plan, the exercise price for incentive stock options and non-statutory stock options is determined to be the fair market value of the underlying shares on the date of grant. Options typically vest ratably over a four-year period measured from the date of grant. Options generally expire no later than seven years after the date of grant, subject to earlier termination upon an optionee's cessation of employment or service. RSUs granted to employees typically vest ratably over a four-year period and are converted into shares of the Company's common stock upon vesting, subject to the employee's continued service to the Company over that period. RSUs granted after August 2017 will continue to vest post-employment at the Company for certain individuals satisfying specific eligibility requirements. MSUs granted to employees typically vest over a four-year cliff period and are converted into shares of the Company's common stock upon vesting, subject to the employee's continued service to the Company over that period. The number of shares that are released at the end of the performance period can range from zero to a maximum cap depending on the Company's performance. There were no stock options granted in the three months ended September 29, 2018 or September 23, 2017. The Company also estimates forfeitures at the time of grant and makes revisions to forfeitures on a quarterly basis. The weighted-average fair value of RSUs and other awards granted was $54.98 and $41.69 per share for the three months ended September 29, 2018 and September 23, 2017, respectively. The Company withheld shares totaling $7.5 million in value as a result of employee withholding taxes based on the value of the RSUs on their vesting date for the three months ended September 29, 2018. The total payments for the employees’ tax obligations to the taxing authorities are reflected as financing activities within the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.As of September 29, 2018, there was $187.7 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to 6.2 million unvested RSUs and other awards, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of approximately 3.0 years. The fair value of MSUs is estimated using a Monte Carlo simulation model on the date of grant. The Company also estimates forfeitures at the time of grant and makes revisions to forfeitures on a quarterly basis. Compensation expense is recognized based on the initial valuation and is not subsequently adjusted as a result of the Company’s performance relative to that of the XSD or the TSR of the companies included in the XSD, as applicable. Vesting for MSUs is contingent upon both service and market conditions and has a four-year vesting cliff period. MSUs granted in September 2017 vest based upon annual performance and are subject to continued service through the end of the four-year period, but will continue to vest post-employment at the Company for certain individuals satisfying specific eligibility requirements.The weighted-average fair value of MSUs granted was $75.48 and $51.03 per share for the three months ended September 29, 2018 and September 23, 2017, respectively. As of September 29, 2018, there was $38.0 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to 1.1 million unvested MSUs, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of approximately 3.1 years. In accordance with ASC No. The Chief Operating Decision Maker for the Company was assessed and determined to be the CEO. The CEO reviews financial information presented on a consolidated basis for purposes of allocating resources and evaluating financial performance. Accordingly, the Company has determined that it has a single operating and reportable segment.Enterprise-wide information is provided in accordance with ASC 280. Geographical revenue information is based on customers’ ship-to location. Long-lived assets consist of property, plant and equipment. SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. Provisional amounts must be adjusted within one year from the enactment date of the Act. In the second quarter of fiscal year 2018, the Company recorded a $236.9 million discrete provisional Transition Tax charge. The GILTI provisions effectively subject income earned by the Company’s foreign subsidiaries to current U.S. tax at a rate of 10.5%, less foreign tax credits. Under U.S. GAAP the Company can make an accounting policy election to either recognize deferred taxes for temporary differences expected to impact GILTI in future years or provide for tax expense related to GILTI in the year the tax is incurred as a period expense. The Company has elected to treat tax generated by the GILTI provisions as a period expense. The Company’s federal statutory tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 is 21%. The Company’s effective tax rate for the three months ended September 29, 2018 of 15.5% was lower than the statutory rate primarily due to earnings of foreign subsidiaries, generated primarily by the Company's international operations managed in Ireland, that were taxed at lower rates, partially offset by tax expense related to GILTI.The Company’s federal statutory tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal year 2018 was 35%. The Company’s effective tax rate for the three months ended September 23, 2017 of 14.6% was lower than the statutory rate primarily due to earnings of foreign subsidiaries, generated primarily by the Company's international operations managed in Ireland, that were taxed at lower rates, and a $2.0 million discrete benefit for excess tax benefits generated by the settlement of share-based awards, partially offset by share-based compensation for which no tax benefit is expected and $3.9 million of discrete interest accruals for unrecognized tax benefits.The Company engages in continuous discussions and negotiations with tax authorities regarding tax matters in various jurisdictions. It is reasonably possible that the balance of gross unrecognized tax benefits, including accrued interest and penalties, could decrease up to $439.0 million within the next twelve months due to the completion of federal tax audits, including any administrative appeals. The IRS concluded its field examination of the Company’s federal corporate income tax returns for fiscal years 2009 through 2011 and issued an IRS Revenue Agent's Report in July 2016 that included proposed adjustments for transfer pricing issues related to cost sharing and buy-in license payments for the use of intangible property by one of the Company’s international subsidiaries. The Company disagreed with the proposed transfer pricing adjustments and related penalties, and in September 2016, the Company filed a protest to challenge the proposed adjustments and request a conference with the Appeals Office of the IRS. In May 2018, a preliminary understanding was reached with the IRS regarding the contested issues for the audit and post-audit years, which the Company expects may be finalized in fiscal year 2019 with the execution of a closing agreement. In June 2018, the Company made advance payments for audit and post-audit year tax of $140.7 million and interest of $37.4 million. These payments will reduce the accrual of interest on audit and post-audit year tax deficiencies that would be owed if the preliminary understanding is finalized. The Company’s reserves for unrecognized tax benefits are sufficient to cover the audit and post-audit year tax deficiencies that would be owed as a result of the preliminary understanding. In fiscal year 2017, the IRS commenced an audit of the Company’s federal corporate income tax returns for fiscal years 2012 through 2014, which is ongoing. While the outcome of these matters cannot be predicted with certainty, the Company does not believe that the outcome of any of these matters, individually or in the aggregate, will result in losses that are materially in excess of amounts already recognized or reserved, if any. IndemnificationThe Company indemnifies certain customers, distributors, suppliers and subcontractors for attorney fees, damages and costs awarded against such parties in certain circumstances in which the Company's products are alleged to infringe third party intellectual property rights, including patents, registered trademarks or copyrights. The terms of the Company's indemnification obligations are generally perpetual from the effective date of the agreement. The stock repurchase authorization does not have an expiration date and the pace of repurchase activity will depend on factors such as current stock price, levels of cash generation from operations, cash requirements, and other factors. All prior repurchase authorizations by the Company’s board of directors for the repurchase of common stock were cancelled and superseded by this repurchase authorization.During the three months ended September 29, 2018, the Company repurchased approximately 1.9 million shares of its common stock for $112.5 million. As of September 29, 2018, the Company had remaining authorization of $505.9 million for future share repurchases. The number of shares to be repurchased and the timing of such repurchases will be based on several factors, including the price of the Company’s common stock and general market and business conditions.On October 30, 2018, the board of directors of the Company authorized the repurchase of up to $1.5 billion of the Company’s common stock. The stock repurchase authorization does not have an expiration date and the pace of repurchase activity will depend on factors such as current stock price, levels of cash generation from operations, cash requirements, and other factors. Total cash consideration paid in connection with this acquisition was $57.8 million, net of cash acquired. The Company also agreed to pay up to an additional $16.0 million if the acquired business achieves certain financial milestones for the annual periods ended August 31, 2018 and August 31, 2019, of which $8.0 million was paid during the three months ended September 29, 2018. The acquired assets included $26.0 million of developed technology and $10.5 million of other intangible assets. The Company also recorded $41.9 million of goodwill in connection with this acquisition. These charges were primarily associated with continued reorganization of 24certain business units and functions, as well as employee enrollments in voluntary separation programs. Multiple job classifications and locations were impacted by these activities. Restructuring AccrualsThe Company has accruals for severance and restructuring payments within Accrued salary and related expenses in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements, which speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Readers should carefully review future reports and documents that the Company files with or furnishes to the SEC from time to time, such as its Annual Reports on Form 10-K, its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and any Current Reports on Form 8-K.Overview of BusinessMaxim Integrated is incorporated in the state of Delaware. Maxim Integrated designs, develops, manufactures and markets a broad range of linear and mixed-signal integrated circuits, commonly referred to as analog circuits, for a large number of geographically diverse customers. We also provide a range of high-frequency process technologies and capabilities that can be used in custom designs. The analog market is fragmented and characterized by many diverse applications, a great number of product variations and, with respect to many circuit types, relatively long product life cycles. We are a global company with a wafer manufacturing facility in the U.S., testing facilities in the Philippines and Thailand, and sales and circuit design offices around the world. We also utilize third party foundries for manufacturing of our products. The major end-markets in which our products are sold are the Automotive, Communications and Data Center, Computing, Consumer and Industrial markets.CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIESThe methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our most critical accounting policies have a significant impact on the results we report in our financial statements. Based on this definition, our most critical accounting policies include revenue recognition, which impacts the recording of net revenues; valuation of inventories, which impacts costs of goods sold and gross margins; the assessment of recoverability of long-lived assets, which impacts impairment of long-lived assets; assessment of recoverability of intangible assets and goodwill, which impacts impairment of goodwill and intangible assets; accounting for income taxes, which impacts the income tax provision; and assessment of litigation and contingencies, which impacts charges recorded in cost of goods sold, selling, general and administrative expenses and income taxes. These policies and the estimates and judgments involved are discussed further in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018. We have other significant accounting policies that either do not generally require estimates 25and judgments that are as difficult or subjective, or it is less likely that such accounting policies would have a material impact on our reported results of operations for a given period. Except for the accounting policies and estimates outlined under Part I, Item 1. Financial Statements - Note 2, there have been no material changes during the three months ended September 29, 2018 to the items that we disclosed as our critical accounting policies and estimates in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018. Revenue from consumer products was up 13%, primarily driven by higher sales of wearables, smartphones and other consumer products. Revenue from automotive products was up 15%, primarily driven by growth in battery management systems for electric vehicles and auto safety and security products. Revenue from industrial products was also up 12%, primarily driven by higher sales of control and automation products. During the three months ended September 29, 2018 and September 23, 2017, approximately 89% and 89% of net revenues, respectively, were derived from customers outside of the United States. While less than 1.0% of our sales are denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate our risks on firm commitments and net monetary assets denominated in foreign currencies. The impact of changes in foreign exchange rates on our revenue and results of operations for the three months ended September 29, 2018 and September 23, 2017 was immaterial.27Gross Margin Our gross margin percentages were 67.4% and 64.9% for the three months ended September 29, 2018 and September 23, 2017, respectively. Our gross margin increased by 2.5 percentage points, due to improved factory utilization and a reduction in intangible amortization.Research and DevelopmentResearch and development expenses were $112.7 million and $108.6 million for the three months ended September 29, 2018 and September 23, 2017, respectively, which represented 17.7% and 18.9% of net revenues for each respective period. The $4.1 million increase was primarily attributable to an increase in salaries and related expenses.Selling, General and AdministrativeSelling, general and administrative expenses were $81.5 million and $73.7 million for the three months ended September 29, 2018 and September 23, 2017, respectively, which represented 12.8% and 12.8% of net revenues for each respective period. The $7.8 million increase was primarily attributable to an increase in salaries and related expenses.Severance and Restructuring ExpensesSeverance and restructuring expenses were $1.0 million and $5.4 million for the three months ended September 29, 2018 and September 23, 2017, respectively, which represented 0.2% and 0.9% of net revenues for each respective period. The $4.4 million decrease was primarily due to the timing of reorganization of certain business units and functions.Provision for Income Taxes In the three months ended September 29, 2018 and September 23, 2017, the Company recorded an income tax provision of $36.2 million and $26.4 million, respectively. SEC Commission Staff Accounting Bulletin No. Provisional amounts must be adjusted within one year from the enactment date of the Act. In the second quarter of fiscal year 2018, the Company recorded a $236.9 million discrete provisional Transition Tax charge. The GILTI provisions effectively subject income earned by the Company’s foreign subsidiaries to current U.S. tax at a rate of 10.5%, less foreign tax credits. Under U.S. GAAP the Company can make an accounting policy election to either recognize deferred taxes for temporary differences expected to impact GILTI in future years or provide for tax expense related to GILTI in the year the tax is incurred as a period expense. The Company has elected to treat tax generated by the GILTI provisions as a period expense. The Company’s federal statutory tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 is 21%. The Company’s effective tax rate for the three months ended September 29, 2018 of 15.5% was lower than the statutory rate primarily due to earnings of foreign subsidiaries, generated primarily by the Company's international operations managed in Ireland, that were taxed at lower rates, partially offset by tax expense related to GILTI.The Company’s federal statutory tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal year 2018 was 35%. The Act did not impact the federal statutory tax rate and income tax provision for the first quarter of fiscal year 2018 because it was enacted after the end of that quarter. The Company’s effective tax rate for the three months ended September 23, 2017 of 14.6% was lower than the statutory rate primarily due to earnings of foreign subsidiaries, generated primarily by the Company's international operations managed in Ireland, that were taxed at lower rates, and a $2.0 million discrete benefit for excess tax benefits generated by the settlement of share-based awards, partially offset by share-based compensation for which no tax benefit is expected and $3.9 million of discrete interest accruals for unrecognized tax benefits.28BACKLOGAt September 29, 2018 and June 30, 2018, our current quarter backlog was approximately $417.6 million and $441.1 million, respectively. In backlog, we include orders with customer request dates within the next three months. As is customary in the semiconductor industry, these orders may be canceled in most cases without penalty to customers. Accordingly, we believe that our backlog is not a reliable measure of future revenues. This decrease was due primarily to an increase of $23.6 million in accounts receivable and an increase of $12.6 million in other current assets, offset by an increase in income before provision for income taxes, which resulted from higher revenue and improved gross margin. Investing activitiesInvesting cash flows consist primarily of net investment purchases and maturities and capital expenditures.Cash provided by investing activities was $97.4 million for the three months ended September 29, 2018, compared with cash used by investing activities of $711.7 million for the three months ended September 23, 2017, a change of $809.1 million. The change was due primarily to purchasing $525.4 million less available-for-sale-securities and an increase of $301.8 million in proceeds from the maturity of available-for-sale securities during the three months ended September 29, 2018 compared to the three months ended September 23, 2017.Financing activitiesFinancing cash flows consist primarily of debt issuance, repurchases of common stock and payment of dividends to stockholders.Net cash used in financing activities increased by approximately $72.3 million for the three months ended September 29, 2018 compared to the three months ended September 23, 2017. The increase was primarily due to an increase of $37.2 million in repurchases of our common stock and a $26.4 million increase in dividends paid to stockholders during the three months ended September 29, 2018.Liquidity and Capital ResourcesAs of September 29, 2018, our available funds consisted of $2.6 billion in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. The Company intends and has the ability to pay this debt upon maturity in the second quarter of fiscal 2019.Available Borrowing ResourcesWe have access to a $350 million senior unsecured revolving credit facility that expires on June 27, 2019. Our management, including the CEO and the CFO, has concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of September 29, 2018. The purpose of these controls and procedures is to ensure that information required to be disclosed in the reports we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our CEO and our CFO, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures. Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended September 29, 2018 that have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect our internal control over financial reporting.Inherent Limitations on the Effectiveness of Internal Controls A system of internal control over financial reporting is intended to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP, and no control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide absolute assurance. The design of any control system is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect financial statement errors and misstatements. Also, projection of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods is subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 30PART II. The stock repurchase authorization does not have an expiration date and the pace of repurchase activity will depend on factors such as current stock price, levels of cash generation from operations, cash requirements, and other factors. As of September 29, 2018, the Company had remaining authorization of $505.9 million for future share repurchases. The number of shares to be repurchased and the timing of such repurchases will be based on several factors, including the price of the Company’s common stock and general market and business conditions.On October 30, 2018, the board of directors of the Company authorized the repurchase of up to $1.5 billion of the Company’s common stock. This stock repurchase authorization does not have an expiration date and the pace of repurchase activity will depend on factors such as current stock price, levels of cash generation from operations, cash requirements, and other factors.