Employer I. D. See definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller” reporting company in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. FINANCIAL INFORMATIONITEM 1. In the opinion of management, all adjustments of a normal recurring nature which were considered necessary for fair presentation have been included. The year-end condensed consolidated balance sheet data were derived from audited consolidated financial statements but do not include all disclosures required by GAAP. The results of operations for the nine months ended March 31, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the entire year. These condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 24, 2017. The Company has a 52-to-53-week fiscal year that ends on the last Saturday in June. Accordingly, every fifth or sixth fiscal year will be a 53-week fiscal year. Fiscal year 2017 was a 52-week fiscal year and fiscal year 2018 is a 53-week fiscal year. The Company early-adopted ASU 2017-12 in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018. There was no material change to the Company's consolidated financial statements as a result of this adoption. This adoption was on a prospective basis and therefore had no impact on prior periods. This standard provides a single set of guidelines for revenue recognition to be used across all industries and requires additional disclosures. The Company expects to select the modified retrospective transition method. As of the second quarter of fiscal year 2018, the Company recognizes all revenue from distributors on a sell-in basis of accounting. The Company does not expect the new guidance to materially impact the timing of recognition of future revenue, but continues to evaluate and prepare for impacts of the new standard on financial statements and disclosures, operational processes including internal controls, and business systems.In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-01, Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities, which provides guidance for the recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure of financial assets and liabilities. This ASU will be effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019. The application of this ASU will be by means of a cumulative-effect adjustment to the balance sheet. ASU 2016-02 requires a dual approach for lessee accounting under which a lessee would account for leases as finance leases or operating leases. Both finance leases and operating leases will result in the lessee recognizing a right-of use asset and a corresponding lease liability. For finance leases, the lessee would recognize interest expense and amortization of the right-of-use asset, and for operating leases, the lessee would recognize a straight-line total lease expense. The guidance also requires qualitative 8and specific quantitative disclosures to supplement the amounts recorded in the financial statements so that users can understand more about the nature of an entity’s leasing activities, including significant judgments and changes in judgments. This guidance is effective beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 on a modified retrospective approach. ASU 2016-16 requires that entities recognize the income tax consequences of an intra-entity transfer of an asset other than inventory when the transfer occurs instead of when the asset is sold. ASU 2016-16 is effective beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, with early adoption permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the potential impact of this standard on its consolidated financial statements.In February 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. This update provides guidance for reporting by an employee benefit plan for its interest in a master trust. The guidance is effective beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 on a retrospective basis, with early application permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the potential impact of this standard on its consolidated financial statements.In March 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-07, Improving the Presentation of Net Periodic Pension Cost and Net Periodic Postretirement Benefit Cost, which requires employers that offer or maintain defined benefit plans to disaggregate the service component from the other components of net benefit cost and provides guidance on presentation of the service component and the other components of net benefit cost in the statement of operations. The new standard is effective beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019. The amendments in this standard provide guidance about which changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award require an entity to apply modification accounting in Topic 718. The amendments in this standard are effective beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, with early adoption permitted, including adoption in any interim period for which financial statements have not yet been issued. This standard provides guidance about the reclassification from accumulated other comprehensive income to retained earnings for stranded tax effects resulting from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. ASU 2018-02 is effective for the Company in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, with early adoption permitted, including adoption in any interim period for which financial statements have not yet been issued. This hierarchy requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. The Company’s Level 1 assets consist of money market funds. Level 2 - Observable inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the asset or liability. There was no material change to the Company's consolidated financial statements as a result of this adoption. This adoption was on a prospective basis and therefore had no impact on prior periods.The Company incurs expenditures denominated in non-U.S. currencies, primarily the Philippine Peso and the Thai Baht associated with the Company's manufacturing activities in the Philippines and Thailand, respectively, and the European Euro, Indian Rupee, Japanese Yen, Taiwan New Dollar, South Korean Won, and Chinese Yuan, expenditures for sales offices and research and development activities undertaken outside of the U.S.The Company has established a program that primarily utilizes foreign currency forward contracts to offset the risks associated with the effects of certain foreign currency exposures. As of March 31, 2018 and June 24, 2017, the notional amounts of the forward contracts the Company held to purchase international currencies were $37.3 million and $36.2 million, respectively, and the notional amounts of forward contracts the Company held to sell international currencies were $0.6 million and $0.2 million, respectively. Derivatives not designated as hedging instrumentsAs of March 31, 2018 and June 24, 2017, the notional amounts of the forward contracts the Company held to purchase international currencies were $19.4 million and $44.5 million, respectively, and the notional amounts of forward contracts the Company held to sell international currencies were $27.0 million and $21.6 million, respectively. Interest on the 2027 Notes is payable semi-annually in arrears on June 15 and December 15 of each year, commencing on December 15, 2017. Interest on the 2018 Notes is payable semi-annually in arrears on May 15 and November 15 of each year, commencing on May 15, 2014. Interest on the 2023 Notes is payable semi-annually in arrears on March 15 and September 15 of each year, commencing on September 15, 2013. The net proceeds of this offering were approximately $490 million, after issuing at a discount and deducting paid expenses.The debt indentures that govern the 2027 Notes, the 2023 Notes and the 2018 Notes, respectively, include covenants that limit the Company's ability to grant liens on its facilities and to enter into sale and leaseback transactions, which could limit the Company's ability to secure additional debt funding in the future. In circumstances involving a change of control of the Company followed by a downgrade of the rating of the 2027 Notes, the 2023 Notes or the 2018 Notes, the Company would be required to make an 13offer to repurchase the affected notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of such notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest. The Company accounts for all the notes above based on their amortized cost. Amortized discount and expenses, as well as interest expense associated with the notes, were $12.4 million and $7.9 million during the three months ended March 31, 2018 and March 25, 2017, respectively. Amortized discount and expenses, as well as interest expense associated with the notes, were $37.1 million and $26.3 million during the nine months ended March 31, 2018 and March 25, 2017, respectively.The estimated fair value of the Company’s outstanding debt obligations was approximately $1,485 million as of March 31, 2018. The estimated fair value of the debt is based primarily on observable market inputs and is a Level 2 measurement.The Company recorded interest expense of $12.5 million and $8.1 million during the three months ended March 31, 2018, and March 25, 2017, respectively. The Company recorded interest expense of $37.6 million and $26.8 million during the nine months ended March 31, 2018 and March 25, 2017, respectively.Credit FacilityRevolving credit facilityThe Company has access to a $350 million senior unsecured revolving credit facility with certain institutional lenders that expires on June 27, 2019. The facility fee is at a rate per annum that varies based on the Company’s index debt rating and any advances under the credit agreement will accrue interest at a base rate plus a margin based on the Company’s index debt rating. As of March 31, 2018, the Company had not borrowed any amounts from this credit facility and was in compliance with all debt covenants.Other Financial InstrumentsFor the balance of the Company’s financial instruments, cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable and other accrued liabilities, the carrying amounts approximate fair value due to their short maturities. Pursuant to the 1996 Plan, the exercise price for incentive stock options and non-statutory stock options is determined to be the fair market value of the underlying shares on the date of grant. Options typically vest ratably over a four-year period measured from the date of grant. Options generally expire no later than seven years after the date of grant, subject to earlier termination upon an optionee's cessation of employment or service. RSUs granted to employees typically vest over a four-year period and are converted into shares of the Company's common stock upon vesting, subject to the employee's continued service to the Company over that period. RSUs granted after August 2017 will continue to vest post-employment at the Company for certain individuals satisfying specific eligibility requirements. MSUs granted to employees typically vest over a four-year cliff period and are converted into shares of the Company's common stock upon vesting, subject to the employee's continued service to the Company over that period. The number of shares that are released at the end of the performance period can range from zero to a maximum cap depending on the Company's performance. There were no stock options granted in the three and nine months ended March 31, 2018 and March 25, 2017. The Company also estimates forfeitures at the time of grant and makes revisions to forfeitures on a quarterly basis. The weighted-average fair value of RSUs and other awards granted was $54.81 and $42.30 per share for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and March 25, 2017, respectively and $44.49 and $37.02 per share for the nine months ended March 31, 2018 and March 25, 2017, respectively. The Company withheld shares totaling $9.6 million and $21.2 million in value as a result of employee withholding taxes based on the value of the RSUs on their vesting date for the three and nine months ended March 31, 2018. The total payments for the employees’ tax obligations to the taxing authorities are reflected as financing activities within the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.As of March 31, 2018, there was $156.4 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to 6.1 million unvested RSUs and other awards, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of approximately 2.8 years. The fair value of MSUs is estimated using a Monte Carlo simulation model on the date of grant. The Company also estimates forfeitures at the time of grant and makes revisions to forfeitures on a quarterly basis. Compensation expense is recognized based on the initial valuation and is not subsequently adjusted as a result of the Company’s performance relative to that of the XSD or the TSR of the companies included in the XSD, as applicable. Vesting for MSUs is contingent upon both service and market conditions and has a four-year vesting cliff period. MSUs granted in September 2017 vest based upon annual performance and are subject to continued service through the end of the four-year period, but will continue to vest post-employment at the Company for certain individuals satisfying specific eligibility requirements.The weighted-average fair value of MSUs granted was $51.03 and $37.29 per share for the nine months ended March 31, 2018 and March 25, 2017, respectively. As of March 31, 2018, there was $24.4 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to 1.1 million unvested MSUs, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of approximately 2.8 years. In accordance with ASC No. The CEO reviews financial information presented on a consolidated basis for purposes of allocating resources and evaluating financial performance.Enterprise-wide information is provided in accordance with ASC 280. Geographical revenue information is based on customers’ ship-to location. Long-lived assets consist of property, plant and equipment. Accumulated unremitted earnings are taxed at a rate of 15.5% to the extent of the aggregate foreign cash position of the Company’s foreign subsidiaries and a rate of 8% to the extent that accumulated unremitted earnings exceeds the aggregate foreign cash position. The Act allows the Company to elect to pay the Repatriation Tax in eight annual interest free installments beginning in September 2018, although for accounting purposes the entire tax was recorded in the second quarter of fiscal year 2018. The Act has other provisions that will significantly impact the Company beginning in fiscal year 2019, including a further reduction of the federal statutory tax rate to 21% and provisions that impact taxation of the Company’s international earnings. The Company is still considering the impact of these provisions on its effective tax rate in fiscal year 2019 and future years.Securities and Exchange Commission Staff Accounting Bulletin No. Provisional amounts must be adjusted during the measurement period as accounting for the income tax effects of the Act is completed. The measurement period began on December 22, 2017, the enactment date of the Act, and lasts no longer than one year.In the second quarter of fiscal year 2018, the Company recorded a $236.9 million discrete provisional charge for the Repatriation Tax and a $13.7 million discrete charge to remeasure deferred tax assets and liabilities as of the enactment date of the Act to reflect the federal statutory tax rate reduction. To determine the amount of the Repatriation Tax, we must determine the accumulated unremitted earnings of the Company’s foreign subsidiaries and the amount of foreign income tax paid on such earnings. The Company made a reasonable estimate of the Repatriation Tax and therefore recorded a provisional Repatriation Tax charge of $236.9 million in the second quarter of fiscal year 2018. No adjustment to the provisional Repatriation Tax charge was made in the third quarter of fiscal year 2018 as the Company continues to gather information and analyze the available guidance to more precisely compute the amount of the Repatriation Tax.In the three and nine months ended March 31, 2018, the Company recorded an income tax provision of $28.7 million and $328.0 million, respectively, compared to $30.2 million and $75.7 million for the three and nine months ended March 25, 2017, respectively. The Company’s effective tax rate for the three and nine months ended March 31, 2018 was 12.9% and 54.6%, respectively, compared to 17.7% and 15.6% for the three and nine months ended March 25, 2017, respectively.The Company’s federal statutory tax rate for fiscal year 2018 is 28.1%. The Company’s effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was lower than the statutory rate primarily due to earnings of foreign subsidiaries, generated primarily by the Company's international operations managed in Ireland, that were taxed at lower rates, and $4.6 million of discrete excess tax benefits generated by the settlement of share-based awards, partially offset by $5.1 million of discrete interest accruals for unrecognized tax benefits. The Company’s effective tax rate for the nine months ended March 31, 2018 was higher than the statutory rate primarily due to a $236.9 million discrete provisional charge for the Repatriation Tax, a $13.7 million discrete charge to remeasure deferred taxes as of the enactment date of the Act, and $13.1 million of discrete interest accruals for unrecognized tax benefits, partially offset by earnings of foreign subsidiaries, generated primarily by the Company's international operations managed in Ireland, that were taxed at lower rates and $8.3 million of discrete excess tax benefits generated by the settlement of share-based awards.The Company’s federal statutory tax rate for the fiscal year 2017 was 35%. The IRS has concluded its field examination of the Company’s federal corporate income tax returns for fiscal years 2009 through 2011 and issued an IRS Revenue Agent’s Report in July 2016 that includes proposed adjustments for transfer pricing issues related to cost sharing and buy-in license payments for the use of intangible property by one of the Company’s international subsidiaries. 21The Company disagrees with the proposed transfer pricing adjustments and related penalties, and in September 2016, the Company filed a protest to challenge the proposed adjustments and requested a conference with the Appeals Office of the IRS, which is expected to begin in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2018. The Company believes that its reserves for unrecognized tax benefits are sufficient to cover any potential assessments that may result from the final resolution of these transfer pricing issues. While the outcome of these matters cannot be predicted with certainty, the Company does not believe that the outcome of any of these matters, individually or in the aggregate, will result in losses that are materially in excess of amounts already recognized or reserved, if any. IndemnificationThe Company indemnifies certain customers, distributors, suppliers and subcontractors for attorney fees, damages and costs awarded against such parties in certain circumstances in which the Company's products are alleged to infringe third party intellectual property rights, including patents, registered trademarks or copyrights. The terms of the Company's indemnification obligations are generally perpetual from the effective date of the agreement. In certain cases, there are limits on and exceptions to the Company's potential liability for indemnification relating to intellectual property infringement claims.Pursuant to the Company's charter documents and separate written indemnification agreements, the Company has certain indemnification obligations to its current officers, employees and directors, as well as certain former officers and directors.Product WarrantyThe Company accrues for specific and estimated product claims resulting from defects in materials, workmanship and material non-conformance to the Company’s specifications. The stock repurchase authorization does not have an expiration date and the pace of repurchase activity will depend on factors such as current stock price, levels of cash generation from operations, cash requirements, and other factors. All prior repurchase authorizations by the Company’s board of directors for the repurchase of common stock were cancelled and superseded by this new repurchase authorization.During the nine months ended March 31, 2018, the Company repurchased approximately 5.3 million shares of its common stock for $279.9 million. As of March 31, 2018, the Company had remaining authorization of $746.4 million for future share repurchases. Total cash consideration paid in connection with this acquisition was $57.8 million, net of cash acquired. The company also agreed to pay up to an additional $16.0 million if the acquired business achieves certain financial milestones for the annual periods ending August 31, 2018 and August 31, 2019. The acquired assets included $26.0 million of developed technology and $10.5 million of other intangible assets. The Company also recorded $41.9 million of goodwill in connection with this acquisition. The goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes.The purchase price allocation as of the date of the acquisition reflects various fair value estimates and analysis performed by the Company with the assistance of third-party valuation specialists. The Company may revise its preliminary purchase price allocation during the remainder of the measurement period, which will not exceed 12 months from the acquisition date. During the nine months ended March 31, 2018, the Company recorded $0.9 million of impairment of long-lived assets in the Company's Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income. The impairment was primarily associated with certain investments in privately held companies. The Company uses various inputs to evaluate investments in privately held companies, including valuations of recent financing events as well as other information regarding the privately held companies' historical and forecasted performance. The impairment was primarily associated with certain investments in privately held companies. The fair values of the assets were determined after consideration of quoted market prices of similar equipment and offers received. Multiple job classifications and locations were impacted by these activities. 24As the Company completed the closure of its Dallas, Texas campus, including ceasing operations of its WLP manufacturing facility in the third quarter of fiscal year 2017, the Company recorded accelerated depreciation charges of $1.1 million and $4.2 million during the three and nine months ended March 25, 2017, respectively.Restructuring AccrualsThe Company has accruals for severance and restructuring payments within Accrued salary and related expenses in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements, which speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Readers should carefully review future reports and documents that the Company files with or furnishes to the SEC from time to time, such as its Annual Reports on Form 10-K, its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and any Current Reports on Form 8-K.Overview of BusinessMaxim Integrated is incorporated in the state of Delaware. Maxim Integrated designs, develops, manufactures and markets a broad range of linear and mixed-signal integrated circuits, commonly referred to as analog circuits, for a large number of geographically diverse customers. We also provide a range of high-frequency process technologies and capabilities that can be used in custom designs. The analog market is fragmented and characterized by many diverse applications, a great number of product variations and, with respect to many circuit types, relatively long product life cycles. We are a global company with a wafer manufacturing facility in the U.S., testing facilities in the Philippines and Thailand, and sales and circuit design offices around the world. We also utilize third party foundries for manufacturing of our products. The major end-markets in which our products are sold are the Automotive, Communications and Data Center, Computing, Consumer and Industrial markets. We completed the sale of our Dallas, Texas campus, including our WLP manufacturing facility, in fiscal year 2016. Based on this definition, our most critical accounting policies include revenue recognition, which impacts the recording of net revenues; valuation of inventories, which impacts costs of goods sold and gross margins; the assessment of recoverability of long-lived assets, which impacts impairment of long-lived assets; assessment of recoverability of intangible assets and goodwill, which impacts impairment of goodwill and intangible assets; accounting for income taxes, which impacts the income tax provision; and assessment of litigation and contingencies, which impacts charges recorded in cost of goods sold, selling, general and administrative expenses and income taxes. These policies and the estimates and judgments involved are discussed further in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 24, 2017. We have other significant accounting policies that either do not generally require estimates and judgments that are as difficult or subjective, or it is less likely that such accounting policies would have a material impact on our reported results of operations for a given period. There have been no material changes during the nine months ended March 31, 2018 to the items that we disclosed as our critical accounting policies and estimates in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 24, 2017. Revenue from consumer products was up 31%, primarily due to higher shipments of products for smartphones. Revenue from automotive products was up 10%, primarily driven by growth in infotainment. Revenue from industrial products was also up 7%, driven by higher sales of control and automation products and other industrial products. Net revenues were $1,846.9 million and $1,693.6 million for the nine months ended March 31, 2018 and March 25, 2017, respectively. Revenue from automotive products was up 16%, primarily driven by growth in infotainment. Revenue from industrial products was up 15%, driven by higher sales of control and automation products and other industrial products. Revenue from consumer products was also up 5%, primarily due to higher shipments of products for smartphones. The increase in revenue was also partially driven by the 14-week second quarter of fiscal year 2018 compared to the 13-week second quarter of fiscal year 2017. 27During the three months ended March 31, 2018 and March 25, 2017, approximately 88% and 89% of net revenues, respectively, were derived from customers outside of the United States. While less than 1.0% of our sales are denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate our risks on firm commitments and net monetary assets denominated in foreign currencies. The impact of changes in foreign exchange rates on our revenue and results of operations for the three and nine months ended March 31, 2018 and March 25, 2017 was immaterial.Gross Margin Our gross margin percentages were 65.4% and 63.1% for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and March 25, 2017, respectively. Our gross margin increased by 2.3 percentage points, primarily due to implementation of cost reduction initiatives and improved factory utilization.Our gross margin percentages were 65.4% and 62.2% for the nine months ended March 31, 2018 and March 25, 2017, respectively. Our gross margin increased by 3.2 percentage points, primarily due to implementation of cost reduction initiatives and improved factory utilization.Research and DevelopmentResearch and development expenses were $114.4 million and $113.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and March 25, 2017, respectively, which represented 17.6% and 19.4% of net revenues for each respective period. The $1.2 million increase was primarily attributable to an increase in salaries and related expenses.Research and development expenses were $338.9 million and $340.0 million for the nine months ended March 31, 2018 and March 25, 2017, respectively, which represented 18.3% and 20.1% of net revenues for each respective period. The $1.1 million decrease was primarily due to continued management of research and development programs.Selling, General and AdministrativeSelling, general and administrative expenses were $81.3 million and $74.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and March 25, 2017, respectively, which represented 12.5% and 12.7% of net revenues for each respective period. The $7.3 million increase was primarily attributable to an increase in salaries and related expenses.Selling, general and administrative expenses were $240.3 million and $216.4 million for the nine months ended March 31, 2018 and March 25, 2017, respectively, which represented 13.0% and 12.8% of net revenues for each respective period. The $23.9 million increase was primarily attributable to an increase in salaries and related expenses.Severance and Restructuring ExpensesSeverance and restructuring expenses were $2.3 million and $0.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and March 25, 2017, respectively, which represented 0.4% and 0.1% of net revenues for each respective period. The $1.8 million increase was primarily due to employee enrollments in voluntary separation programs during fiscal year 2018.Severance and restructuring expenses were $14.2 million and $11.3 million for the nine months ended March 31, 2018 and March 25, 2017, respectively, which represented 0.8% and 0.7% of net revenues for each respective period. Accumulated unremitted earnings are taxed at a rate of 15.5% to the extent of the aggregate foreign cash position of our foreign subsidiaries and a rate of 8% to the extent that accumulated unremitted earnings exceeds the aggregate foreign cash position. The Act allows us to elect to pay the Repatriation Tax in eight annual interest free installments beginning in September 2018, although for accounting purposes the entire tax was recorded in the second quarter of fiscal year 2018. The Act has other provisions that will significantly impact us beginning in fiscal year 2019, including a further reduction of the federal statutory tax rate to 21% and provisions that impact taxation of our international earnings. We are still considering the impact of these provisions on our effective tax rate in fiscal year 2019 and future years.Securities and Exchange Commission Staff Accounting Bulletin No. Provisional amounts must be adjusted during the measurement period as accounting for the income tax effects of the Act is completed. The measurement period began on December 22, 2017, the enactment date of the Act, and lasts no longer than one year.In the second quarter of fiscal year 2018, we recorded a $236.9 million discrete provisional charge for the Repatriation Tax and a $13.7 million discrete charge to remeasure deferred tax assets and liabilities as of the enactment date of the Act to reflect the federal statutory tax rate reduction. To determine the amount of the Repatriation Tax, we must determine the accumulated unremitted earnings of our foreign subsidiaries and the amount of foreign income tax paid on such earnings. We made a reasonable estimate of the Repatriation Tax and therefore recorded a provisional Repatriation Tax charge of $236.9 million in the second quarter of fiscal year 2018. No adjustment to the provisional Repatriation Tax charge was made in the third quarter of fiscal year 2018 as we continue to gather information and analyze the available guidance to more precisely compute the amount of the Repatriation Tax.In the three and nine months ended March 31, 2018, we recorded an income tax provision of $28.7 million and $328.0 million, respectively, compared to $30.2 million and $75.7 million for the three and nine months ended March 25, 2017, respectively. Our effective tax rate for the three and nine months ended March 31, 2018 was 12.9% and 54.6%, respectively, compared to 17.7% and 15.6% for the three and nine months ended March 25, 2017, respectively.Our federal statutory tax rate for fiscal year 2018 is 28.1%. Our effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was lower than the statutory rate primarily due to earnings of foreign subsidiaries, generated primarily by our international operations managed in Ireland, that were taxed at lower rates, and $4.6 million of discrete excess tax benefits generated by the settlement of share-based awards, partially offset by $5.1 million of discrete interest accruals for unrecognized tax benefits. Our effective tax rate for the nine months ended March 31, 2018 was higher than the statutory rate primarily due to a $236.9 million discrete provisional charge for the Repatriation Tax, a $13.7 million discrete charge to remeasure deferred taxes as of the enactment date of the Act, and $13.1 million of discrete interest accruals for unrecognized tax benefits, partially offset by earnings of foreign subsidiaries, generated primarily by our international operations managed in Ireland, that were taxed at lower rates, and $8.3 million of discrete excess tax benefits generated by the settlement of share-based awards.Our federal statutory tax rate for the fiscal year 2017 was 35%. Our effective tax rate for the three and nine months ended March 25, 2017 was lower than the statutory rate primarily due to earnings of foreign subsidiaries, generated primarily by our international operations managed in Ireland, that were taxed at lower rates, and $4.3 million and $9.5 million of discrete excess tax benefits generated by the settlement of share-based awards in the three and nine months ended March 25, 2017, respectively, partially offset by stock-based compensation for which no tax benefit is expected and $3.6 million and $10.4 million of discrete interest accruals for unrecognized tax benefits in the three and nine months ended March 25, 2017, respectively.BACKLOGAt March 31, 2018 and June 24, 2017, our current quarter backlog was approximately $436.0 million and $389.1 million, respectively. In backlog, we include orders with customer request dates within the next three months. As is customary in the semiconductor industry, these orders may be canceled in most cases without penalty to customers. Accordingly, we believe that our backlog is not a reliable measure of future revenues. This increase was due primarily to an increase of $117.2 million in income before provision for income taxes, which resulted from higher revenue and improved gross margin. Investing activitiesInvesting cash flows consist primarily of net investment purchases and maturities and capital expenditures.Cash used in investing activities increased by $388.8 million for the nine months ended March 31, 2018 compared with the nine months ended March 25, 2017. The increase was due primarily to a $722.0 million increase in purchases of available-for-sale-securities, partially offset by $397.5 million increase in proceeds from maturity of available-for-sale securities during the nine months ended March 31, 2018.Financing activitiesFinancing cash flows consist primarily of debt issuance, repurchases of common stock and payment of dividends to stockholders.Net cash used in financing activities decreased by approximately $84.7 million for the nine months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the nine months ended March 25, 2017. The decrease was primarily due to a $250.0 million repayment of notes payable during the nine months ended March 25, 2017 with no repayment for the nine months ended March 31, 2018. This was partially offset by $104.0 million in higher repurchases of our common stock and a $40.2 million increase in dividends paid to stockholders during the nine months ended March 31, 2018.Liquidity and Capital ResourcesAs of March 31, 2018, our available funds consisted of $2.7 billion in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. Our management, including the CEO and the CFO, has concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of March 31, 2018. The purpose of these controls and procedures is to ensure that information required to be disclosed in the reports we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our CEO and our CFO, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures. Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended March 31, 2018 that have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect our internal control over financial reporting.Inherent Limitations on the Effectiveness of Internal Controls A system of internal control over financial reporting is intended to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP, and no control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide absolute assurance. The design of any control system is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect financial statement errors and misstatements. Also, projection of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods is subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 31PART II. The stock repurchase authorization does not have an expiration date and the pace of repurchase activity will depend on factors such as current stock price, levels of cash generation from operations, cash requirements, and other factors. As of March 31, 2018, the Company had remaining authorization of $746.4 million for future share repurchases.