See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company” and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. Yes ¨ No xAs of September 30, 2018, there were approximately 179.3 million shares of the Registrant’s Common Stock outstanding. See Note 2 for further details. See Note 2 for further details. Accordingly, we have recast our prior period condensed consolidated statement of cash flows to conform to the current presentation. We help our customers improve service quality and reduce costs while scaling and automating their businesses. We typically deliver our software via the Internet as a service, through an easy-to-use, consumer product-like interface, which means it can be easily configured and rapidly deployed. In a minority of cases, customers deploy our software internally or contract with a third party to host the software to support their unique regulatory or security requirements. All amounts and disclosures set forth in this Form 10-Q have been updated to comply with the new standard, including previously reported amounts, which are labeled "as adjusted" in these condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes. The results of operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the year ending December 31, 2018 or for other interim periods or future years. The condensed consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2017 is derived from audited financial statements as adjusted to reflect the impact of the full retrospective adoption of Topic 606; however, it does not include all of the information and footnotes required by GAAP for complete financial statements. These condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and related notes included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, which was filed with the SEC on February 28, 2018.Principles of ConsolidationThe condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in conformity with GAAP, and include our accounts and the accounts of our wholly-owned subsidiaries. All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated upon consolidation.Use of Estimates The preparation of condensed consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements, as well as reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. This new standard is effective for our interim and annual periods beginning January 1, 2020, and earlier adoption is permitted. Currently, the accounting requirements for nonemployee and employee share-based payment transactions are significantly different. This standard expands the scope of Topic 718 to include share-based payments issued to nonemployees for goods or services, aligning the accounting for share-based payments to nonemployees and employees. This standard is effective for our fiscal year beginning January 1, 2019 and early adoption is permitted. We early adopted this new standard effective January 1, 2018, and the adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements. As this standard was adopted on a prospective basis as of January 1, 2018, the adoption of this standard did not impact our previously reported financial statements for periods ended on or prior to December 31, 2017. This standard is effective for our fiscal year beginning January 1, 2019 and early adoption is permitted. We early adopted this new standard effective January 1, 2018, with an immaterial amount of cumulative effect adjustment recorded to our accumulated deficit as of January 1, 2018. As this standard was adopted on a modified prospective basis as of January 1, 2018, the adoption of this standard did not impact our previously reported financial statements for periods ended on or prior to December 31, 2017.In December 2017, the SEC staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. Through September 30, 2018, we did not have any significant adjustments to our provisional amounts. In light of the enactment of the Tax Act, we are assessing whether to change our indefinite reinvestment assertion, in which we consider earnings from our foreign operations to be indefinitely reinvested outside of the United States. Under guidance issued by the SEC, we are required to complete our assessment by the end of the measurement period described above. We will continue our analysis of these provisional amounts, which remain subject to change during the measurement period. We anticipate further guidance on accounting interpretations from the FASB and application of the law from the Department of Treasury. We expect to reach a final determination within the measurement period described above. We adopted this new standard as of January 1, 2018 with an immaterial amount of cumulative effect adjustment recorded to our accumulated deficit as of January 1, 2018. We adopted these new standards as of January 1, 2018 with a cumulative-effect adjustment, net of tax of $7.2 million recorded to our accumulated deficit as of January 1, 2018. As part of the adoption, we elected to apply the measurement alternative for our non-marketable equity investments that do not have readily determinable fair values, measuring them at cost, less any impairment, plus or minus adjustments resulting from observable price changes in orderly transactions for the identical or a similar investment of the same issuer. The adoption of these standards did not result in an adjustment for our non-marketable equity investments as our measurement alternative election requires adjustments to be recorded only on a prospective basis. Under Topic 606, revenue is recognized when a customer obtains control of promised goods or services and is recognized in an amount that reflects the consideration which the entity expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. In addition, this standard requires disclosure of the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. We adopted the requirements of Topic 606 as of January 1, 2018, utilizing a full retrospective method. The most significant impact of the standard relates to the timing of revenue recognition related to self-hosted offerings, in which customers deploy, or we grant customers the option to deploy without significant penalty, our software internally or contract with a third party to host the software, the accounting for incremental selling costs to obtain a contract, and the classification of proceeds for Knowledge and other user forums as a reduction in sales and marketing expenses instead of as professional services and other revenues. The adoption of Topic 606 resulted in changes to our accounting policies for revenue recognition, unbilled receivables, deferred commissions, deferred revenue and customer deposits as detailed below. As a result, for all periods presented, we have recognized as subscription revenues a portion of the sales price upon delivery of the software, compared to the prior practice under Topic 605 of recognizing the entire sales price ratably over an estimated subscription period due to the lack of VSOE. On renewal contracts, these costs are amortized over the renewal term. Additionally, for self-hosted offerings, consistent with the recognition of subscription revenue for self-hosted offerings as described above, a portion of the commission cost is expensed upfront when the self-hosted offering is made available. Our prior practice under Topic 605 was to defer only direct and incremental commission costs to obtain a contract and amortize those costs over the contract term, which is generally 12 to 36 months, for both self-hosted offerings and cloud-based subscription offerings.As part of our adoption of Topic 606, during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, we recorded a decrease in sales and marketing expenses and a corresponding increase in our deferred commissions asset of $7.4 million and $5.4 million, respectively. These adjustments reflect the correction of previously undercapitalized incremental fringe benefit costs associated with sales commissions that were paid since 2012. We concluded that these adjustments were not material to the current period or any previously reported periods presented, as adjusted for the full retrospective adoption of Topic 606.7Table of ContentsThe direct effect on income taxes resulting from the full retrospective adoption of the above-mentioned changes to revenues and commission expenses resulted in a cumulative income tax expense of $23.3 million recorded in the prior periods through December 31, 2017. The indirect tax benefit of Topic 606 on income taxes associated with intercompany adjustments of $23.1 million, or $0.13 per basic and diluted share for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, was recorded in the first quarter of adoption during the three months ended March 31, 2018. We recognize subscription revenues ratably over the contract term beginning on the commencement date of each contract, which is the date we make our services available to our customers. Our contracts with customers typically include a fixed amount of consideration and are generally non-cancelable and without any refund-type provisions. We typically invoice our customers annually in advance for our subscription services upon execution of the initial contract or subsequent renewal, and our invoices are typically due within 30 days from the invoice date. Subscription revenues also include revenues from self-hosted offerings in which customers deploy, or we grant customers the option to deploy without significant penalty, our subscription service internally or contract with a third party to host the software. For these contracts, we account for the software element and the related support and updates separately as they are distinct performance obligations. Refer to the discussion below related to contracts with multiple performance obligations for further details. The transaction price is allocated to separate performance obligations on a relative SSP basis. Transaction price allocated to the software element is recognized upon delivery, which is when transfer of control of the software to the customer is complete. The transaction price allocated to the related support and updates are recognized ratably over the contract term. Professional services and other revenuesOur professional services arrangements are primarily on a time-and-materials basis, and revenues on these arrangements are recognized as the services are delivered. We typically invoice our customers monthly in arrears for these professional services based on actual hours and expenses incurred, and our invoices are typically due within 30 days from the invoice date. Professional services revenues associated with fixed fee arrangements are recognized on a proportional performance basis. In instances where certain milestones are required to be met before revenues are recognized, we defer professional services revenues and the associated costs until milestone criteria have been met. Other revenues consist of fees from customer training delivered on-site or through publicly available classes.Contracts with multiple performance obligationsWe enter into contracts that can include various combinations of products and services, which are generally capable of being distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations. For these contracts, the transaction price is allocated to the separate performance obligations on a relative SSP basis. We determine SSP by considering the historical selling price of these performance obligations in similar transactions as well as other factors, including, but not limited to, competitive pricing of similar products, other software vendor pricing, industry publications and current pricing practices.Unbilled ReceivablesUnbilled receivables, which is a contract asset, represent subscription revenues that are recognized upon delivery of the software prior to being invoiced. Unbilled receivables are primarily presented under prepaid expenses and other current assets on our condensed consolidated balance sheets.10Table of ContentsDeferred CommissionsDeferred commissions are the incremental selling costs that are associated with acquiring customer contracts and consist primarily of sales commissions paid to our sales force and referral fees paid to independent third-parties. Capitalized sales commissions also include the associated payroll taxes and fringe benefit costs associated with payments to our sales employees to the extent they are incremental. On initial and expansion contracts, commissions and referral fees are primarily deferred and amortized over a period of benefit that we have determined to be five years. On renewal contracts, commissions are deferred and amortized over the average renewal term. Additionally, for self-hosted offerings, consistent with the recognition of subscription revenue for self-hosted offerings, a portion of the commission cost is expensed upfront when the self-hosted offering is made available. We determine the period of benefit by taking into consideration our customer contracts, our technology life cycle and other factors. There was no impairment loss in relation to the incremental selling costs capitalized for all periods presented.Deferred revenueDeferred revenue, which is a contract liability, consists primarily of payments received in advance of revenue recognition from our contracts with customers and is recognized as the revenue recognition criteria are met. Once our services are available to customers, we record amounts due in accounts receivable and in deferred revenue. To the extent we bill customers in advance of the billing period commencement date, the accounts receivable and corresponding deferred revenue amounts are netted to zero on our condensed consolidated balance sheets, unless such amounts have been paid as of the balance sheet date. Customer depositsCustomer deposits primarily relate to payments received from customers which could be refundable pursuant to the terms of the contract and are presented under “accrued expenses and other current liabilities” on our condensed consolidated balance sheets.Strategic investmentsOur strategic investments consist of debt and non-marketable equity investments in privately-held companies in which we do not have a controlling interest or significant influence. We have elected to apply the measurement alternative for equity investments that do not have readily determinable fair values, measuring them at cost, less any impairment, plus or minus adjustments resulting from observable price changes in orderly transactions for the identical or a similar investment of the same issuer. An impairment loss is recorded when event or circumstance indicates a decline in value has occurred. The new standard requires capitalized costs to be amortized on a straight-line basis generally over the term of the arrangement, and the financial statement presentation for these capitalized costs would be the same as that of the fees related to the hosting arrangements. This new standard is effective for our interim and annual periods beginning January 1, 2020 and earlier adoption is permitted. This standard could be applied either retrospectively or prospectively to all implementation costs incurred after the date of adoption. We are evaluating the timing and impact of our pending adoption of this standard on our consolidated financial statements.11Table of ContentsSEC disclosure updateIn August 2018, the SEC adopted the final rule under SEC Release No. 33-10532, Disclosure Update and Simplification, amending certain disclosure requirements that have become redundant, duplicative, overlapping, outdated or superseded. In addition, the amendments expanded the disclosure requirements on the analysis of stockholders' equity for interim financial statements. Under the amendments, an analysis of changes in each caption of stockholders' equity presented in the balance sheet must be provided in a note or separate statement. The analysis should present a reconciliation of the beginning balance to the ending balance of each period for which a statement of comprehensive income is required to be filed. The final rule is effective November 5, 2018. As permitted by the SEC, we will present this analysis beginning with our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the three months ending March 31, 2019. The GILTI provisions impose a tax on foreign income in excess of a deemed return on tangible assets of subsidiary foreign corporations. Credit losses relating to available-for-sale debt securities should be recorded through an allowance for credit losses. This new standard is effective for our interim and annual periods beginning January 1, 2020. This new standard, including related amendments subsequently issued by the FASB, is effective for our interim and annual periods beginning January 1, 2019, and early adoption is permitted. We are in the process of implementing changes to our existing systems and processes in conjunction with a review of existing vendor agreements and do not plan to early adopt this new standard. We currently anticipate that the adoption of this standard will have a material impact on our condensed consolidated balance sheets given that we had operating lease commitments in excess of $800 million as of September 30, 2018, on an undiscounted basis. There were no impairments considered “other-than-temporary” as it is more likely than not we will hold the securities until maturity or a recovery of the cost basis.14Table of ContentsMarketable Equity SecuritiesAs of December 31, 2017, we had marketable equity securities of $20.7 million. In May 2018, we sold these securities for total proceeds of $40.0 million. Refer to Note 2 for further details on ASU 2016-01. Upon our sale of these securities, the previously unrealized gain became realized. As of September 30, 2018, we had no marketable equity securities on our condensed consolidated balance sheet. Strategic InvestmentsAs of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the total amount of equity investments in privately-held companies included in other assets on our condensed consolidated balance sheets was $13.3 million and $4.8 million, respectively. We have not recorded any adjustments resulting from observable price changes or impairment charges for any of our equity investments in privately-held companies. The fair value of our debt investments in privately-held companies included within our strategic investments was $1.3 million and $1.0 million as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. These investments are recorded at fair value using significant unobservable inputs or data in an inactive market, and the valuation requires our judgment due to the absence of quoted prices in active markets and inherent lack of liquidity and are categorized accordingly as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy. government and agency securities— 61,380 61,380Total$303,224 $1,574,421 $1,877,645We determine the fair value of our security holdings based on pricing from our service providers and market prices from industry-standard independent data providers. The excess of purchase consideration over the fair value of net tangible and identifiable assets acquired was recorded as goodwill. We believe the goodwill balance associated with these business combinations represents the synergies expected from expanded market opportunities when integrating the acquired developed technologies with our offerings. The results of operations of these business combinations have been included in our condensed consolidated financial statements from their respective dates of purchase. These business combinations did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements, and therefore historical and pro forma disclosures have not been presented. Depreciation and amortization expense for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 was $31.5 million and $24.3 million, respectively, and for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 was approximately $88.3 million and $66.9 million, respectively. In order to manage certain exposures to currency fluctuations, we initiated a limited hedging program beginning in the three months ended March 31, 2018 by entering into foreign currency derivative contracts with maturities of 12 months or less to hedge a portion of our net outstanding monetary assets and liabilities. These derivative contracts consist of forward contracts entered into with various counterparties and are not designated as hedging instruments under applicable accounting guidance. These derivative contracts are intended to offset the foreign currency gains or losses associated with the underlying monetary assets and liabilities. Changes in the related derivative assets and liabilities balances are classified as operating activities in the condensed consolidated statement of cash flows.These derivative contracts expose us to credit risk to the extent that the counterparties may be unable to meet the terms of the arrangement. We mitigate this credit risk by transacting with major financial institutions with high credit ratings and entering into master netting arrangements, which permit net settlement of transactions with the same counterparty. While the contract or notional amount is often used to express the volume of foreign currency derivative contracts, the amounts potentially subject to credit risk are generally limited to the amounts, if any, by which the counterparties’ obligations under the agreements exceed the obligations of the Company to the counterparties. We are not required to pledge, and are not entitled to receive, cash collateral related to these derivative instruments. We do not enter into derivative contracts for trading or speculative purposes.As of September 30, 2018, we had derivative contracts with total notional values of $794.1 million, which are not designated as hedge instruments. Our foreign currency contracts are classified within Level 2 because the valuation inputs are based on quoted prices and market observable data of similar instruments in active markets, such as currency spot and forward rates. Revenues recognized during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 from performance obligations satisfied or partially satisfied in previous periods were not material.Transaction Price Allocated to the Remaining Performance ObligationsTransaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations represents contracted revenue that has not yet been recognized, which includes deferred revenue and non-cancelable amounts that will be invoiced and recognized as revenues in future periods. We applied the practical expedient in accordance with Topic 606 to exclude amounts related to professional services contracts that are on a time-and-material basis, which typically have a remaining duration of one year or less. In addition, we elected to apply the practical expedient to not disclose the transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations for all periods presented before January 1, 2018, the date of our initial adoption of Topic 606.As of September 30, 2018, the total remaining non-cancelable performance obligations under our contracts with customers was approximately $4.2 billion, and we expect to recognize revenues on approximately 51% of these remaining performance obligations over the following 12 months, with the balance to be recognized thereafter. See Note 2 for further details. The Notes do not bear interest, and we cannot redeem the Notes prior to maturity.The Notes are unsecured obligations and do not contain any financial covenants or restrictions on the payments of dividends, the incurrence of indebtedness or the issuance or repurchase of securities by us or any of our subsidiaries.Upon conversion of the Notes, we may choose to pay or deliver, as the case may be, cash, shares of our common stock or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock upon settlement. We currently intend to settle the principal amount of the Notes with cash. On or after the applicable Convertible Date, a holder may convert all or any portion of its Notes at any time prior to the close of business on the second scheduled trading day immediately preceding the maturity date regardless of the foregoing conditions, and such conversions will settle upon the applicable maturity date. Upon settlement, we will pay or deliver, as the case may be, cash, shares of our common stock or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock, pursuant to our election. The conversion price will be subject to adjustment in some events. Holders of the Notes who convert their Notes in connection with certain corporate events that constitute a “make-whole fundamental change” are, under certain circumstances, entitled to an increase in the conversion rate. Additionally, in the event of a corporate event that constitutes a “fundamental change,” holders of the Notes may require us to purchase with cash all or a portion of the Notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change, at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the respective Notes plus any accrued and unpaid special interest, if any.In accounting for the issuance of the Notes, we separated the Notes into liability and equity components. The carrying cost of the liability component was calculated by measuring the fair value of a similar liability that does not have an associated convertible feature. The carrying amount of the equity component representing the conversion option was determined by deducting the fair value of the liability component from the par value of the Notes. The difference between the principal amount of the Notes and the proceeds allocated to the liability component, or the debt discount, is amortized to interest expense using the effective interest method over the term of the respective Notes. The equity component is not remeasured as long as it continues to meet the conditions for equity classification.In accounting for the transaction costs related to the issuance of the Notes, we allocated the total amount incurred to the liability and equity components based on their relative fair values. Transaction costs attributable to the liability component are being amortized to interest expense over the respective terms of the Notes, and transaction costs attributable to the equity component were netted with the equity component of the Notes in stockholders’ equity. Therefore, our 2022 Notes became convertible at the holders’ option beginning on July 1, 2018 and continue to be convertible at the holders’ option through December 31, 2018. Through the filing date, we have not received any conversion requests for our 2022 Notes. The Conversion Condition for the 2018 Notes was met for the quarters ended June 30, 2017, September 30, 2017, December 31, 2017 and March 31, 2018. Therefore, the 2018 Notes became convertible at the holders’ option beginning on July 1, 2017 and continued to be convertible at the holders’ option through June 30, 2018. Any conversion requests received subsequent to June 30, 2018 were settled on the maturity date, which was November 1, 2018. During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we paid cash to settle $413.2 million principal amount of the 2018 Notes and recorded a loss on early note conversions of $4.1 million. The loss on early note conversions for the three months ended September 30, 2018 was not material. Refer to Note 19 for further details.We consider the fair value of the Notes at September 30, 2018 to be a Level 2 measurement. If exercised, we may elect to receive cash, shares of our common stock, or a combination of cash and shares. We have accounted for the aggregate amount of purchase price for the Note Hedges as a reduction to additional paid-in capital. The Note Hedges will expire upon the maturity of the Notes. The Note Hedges are intended to reduce the potential economic dilution upon conversion of the Notes in the event that the fair value per share of our common stock at the time of exercise is greater than the conversion price of the Notes. The Note Hedges are separate transactions and are not part of the terms of the Notes. Holders of the Notes will not have any rights with respect to the Note Hedges. The Note Hedges do not impact earnings per share, as they were entered into to offset any dilution from the Notes. During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, the Note Hedge counterparties paid $548.0 million in cash to holders of the 2018 Notes from the exercise of a portion of the 2018 Note Hedges. If the average market value per share of our common stock for the reporting period, as measured under the Warrants, exceeds the strike price of the respective Warrants, such Warrants would have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share to the extent we report net income. According to the terms of each of the Warrants, the Warrants will be automatically exercised over a 60 trading day period beginning on the first expiration date of the respective Warrants as set forth above. The Warrants are separate transactions and are not remeasured through earnings each reporting period. The Warrants are not part of the Notes or Note Hedges, and have been accounted for as part of additional paid-in capital. Based on the stock price as of September 30, 2018, we expect to issue additional shares in the first half of 2019 upon the exercise of the 2018 Warrants. As the warrants will be net share settled, the number of shares we will issue depends on the stock price over a 60 trading day period beginning on the first expiration date of the 2018 Warrants, which is February 1, 2019. See Note 2 for further details. Holders of our common stock are not entitled to receive dividends unless declared by our board of directors. Our 2005 Plan was terminated in connection with our initial public offering in 2012 but continues to govern the terms of outstanding stock options that were granted prior to the termination of the 2005 Plan. We no longer grant equity awards pursuant to our 2005 Plan. In addition, the 2012 Plan provides for the grant of performance cash awards. Incentive stock options may be granted only to employees. All other equity awards may be granted to employees, including officers, as well as directors and consultants. The share reserve may increase to the extent outstanding stock options under the 2005 Plan expire or terminate unexercised. The share reserve also automatically increases on January 1 of each year until January 1, 2022, by up to 5% of the total number of shares of common stock outstanding on December 31 of the preceding year as determined by our board of directors. On January 1, 2018, 8,713,793 shares of common stock were automatically added to the 2012 Plan pursuant to the provision described in the preceding sentence.Our 2012 ESPP authorizes the issuance of shares of common stock pursuant to purchase rights granted to our employees. The price at which common stock is purchased under the 2012 ESPP is equal to 85% of the fair market value of our common stock on the first or last day of the offering period, whichever is lower. Offering periods are six months long and begin on February 1 and August 1 of each year. The number of shares of common stock reserved for issuance automatically increases on January 1 of each year until January 1, 2022, by up to 1% of the total number of shares of common stock outstanding on December 31 of the preceding year as determined by our board of directors. The total fair value of stock options vested during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was $10.2 million. As of September 30, 2018, total unrecognized compensation cost, adjusted for estimated forfeitures, related to unvested stock options was approximately $13.9 million. As of September 30, 2018, total unrecognized compensation cost, adjusted for estimated forfeitures, related to unvested RSUs was approximately $914.3 million and the weighted-average remaining vesting period was 2.91 years. 24Included in the RSU activity table above are RSUs with both service and performance-based vesting criteria that were granted to certain employees. The ultimate number of shares eligible to vest for PRSUs range from 0% to 180% of the target number of shares depending on achievement relative to the performance metric over the applicable period. The eligible shares subject to PRSUs granted during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 will vest 33% in February 2019 and continue to vest quarterly for the remaining two subsequent years, contingent on each holder’s continuous status as a service provider on the applicable vesting dates. The PRSUs shown in the table above reflect the number of shares that would be eligible to vest at 100% of target performance, in the case of PRSUs for which achievement has not yet been determined, and reflect adjustments for over- or under- achievement, in the case of PRSUs for which achievement has already been determined. We recognized $65.7 million and $28.4 million of stock-based compensation expense, net of actual and estimated forfeitures, associated with PRSUs on a graded vesting basis during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Stock awards with performance conditions are included in dilutive shares to the extent the performance condition is met. The dilutive potential shares of common stock are computed using the treasury stock method or the as-if converted method, as applicable. For the three months ended September 30, 2018, the lower tax rate was primarily attributable to excess tax benefits of stock-based compensation and loss from domestic operations. The lower tax rate was primarily attributable to our loss from operations, the foreign tax rate differential, a release of the valuation allowance in connection with acquisitions and excess tax benefits of stock-based compensation.We are subject to taxation in the United States and foreign jurisdictions. As of September 30, 2018, our tax years 2004 to 2017 remain subject to examination in most jurisdictions.There are differing interpretations of tax laws and regulations, and as a result, disputes may arise with tax authorities involving issues of the timing and amount of deductions and allocations of income among various tax jurisdictions. We periodically evaluate our exposures associated with our tax filing positions. We believe that adequate amounts have been reserved for any adjustments that may ultimately result from these examinations, and we do not anticipate a significant impact to our gross unrecognized tax benefits within the next 12 months related to these years. Although the timing of the resolution, settlement, and closure of any audit is highly uncertain, it is reasonably possible that the balance of gross unrecognized tax benefits could significantly change in the next 12 months. However, given the number of years that remain subject to examination, we are unable to estimate the full range of possible adjustments to the balance of gross unrecognized tax benefits. Not included in the table above are certain purchase commitments related to our future annual Knowledge user conferences and other customer or sales conferences. If we were to cancel these contractual commitments as of September 30, 2018, we would have been obligated to pay cancellation penalties of approximately $18.1 million in aggregate.In addition to the amounts above, the repayment of our 2022 Notes with an aggregate principal amount of $782.5 million is due on June 1, 2022. Refer to Note 11 for further information regarding our Notes. On November 1, 2018, we repaid the remaining 2018 Notes with an aggregate principal amount of $161.8 million. Refer to Note 19 for further details of the 2018 Notes repayment. In addition to the obligations in the table above, approximately $6.5 million of unrecognized tax benefits have been recorded as liabilities as of September 30, 2018. Legal ProceedingsFrom time to time, we are party to litigation and other legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business. While the results of any litigation or other legal proceedings are uncertain, management does not believe the ultimate resolution of any pending legal matters is likely to have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows, except for those matters for which we have recorded a loss contingency. We accrue for loss contingencies when it is both probable that we will incur the loss and when we can reasonably estimate the amount of the loss or range of loss.27Table of ContentsGenerally, our subscription agreements require us to defend our customers for third-party intellectual property infringement and other claims. Any adverse determination related to intellectual property claims or other litigation could prevent us from offering our services and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. See Note 2 for further details.Our service management products include our platform, IT service management, IT business management, customer service management, HR service delivery and security operations, and are generally priced on a per user basis. Both transactions will be accounted for as business combinations. Our accounting and analyses of these transactions are pending completion.On November 1, 2018, the 2018 Notes matured and the remaining $161.8 million in principal amount of the 2018 Notes was settled in cash. The conversion value over the principal amount was satisfied with shares of our common stock, which was entirely offset by shares of our common stock delivered to us by the Note Hedge counterparties under the 2018 Note Hedge, and cash in lieu of fractional shares. The 2018 Notes and 2018 Note Hedge are no longer outstanding, and the 2018 Warrants remain outstanding as of the date of this filing. Based on the stock price as of September 30, 2018, the number of shares to be issued upon exercise of the 2018 Warrants would be approximately 3.5 million.28Table of ContentsITEM 2. These statements are often identified by the use of words such as “may,” “will,” “expect,” “believe,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “could,” “estimate,” or “continue,” and similar expressions or variations. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results and the timing of certain events to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those identified herein, and those discussed in the section titled “Risk Factors,” set forth in Part II, Item 1A of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and in our other SEC filings. We disclaim any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements. We use these channels, as well as social media, to communicate with our members and the public about our company, our services and other issues. It is possible that the information we post on social media could be deemed to be material information. These non-GAAP financial measures are not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for, or superior to, financial information prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP. These measures may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies, limiting their usefulness for comparison purposes. We encourage investors to carefully consider our results under GAAP, as well as our supplemental non-GAAP information and the reconciliation between these presentations, to more fully understand our business. OverviewServiceNow is a leading provider of enterprise cloud computing solutions that define, structure, manage and automate services for global enterprises. We help our customers improve service quality and reduce costs while scaling and automating their businesses. We typically deliver our software via the Internet as a service, through an easy-to-use, consumer product-like interface, which means it can be easily configured and rapidly deployed. In a minority of cases, customers deploy our software internally or contract with a third party to host the software to support their unique regulatory or security requirements.We generally offer our services on an annual subscription fee basis, which includes access to the ordered subscription service and related support, including updates to the subscription service during the subscription term. Pricing for our subscription services is based on a number of factors, including duration of subscription term, volume, mix of products purchased, and discounts. We generate sales through our direct sales team and, to a lesser extent, indirectly through resale partners and third-party referrals. We also generate revenues from professional services and for training of customer and partner personnel. We generally bill our customers annually in advance for subscription services and monthly in arrears for our professional services as the work is performed.A majority of our revenues come from large global enterprise customers. We continue to invest in the development of our services, infrastructure and sales and marketing to drive long-term growth. We increased our overall employee headcount to 7,661 as of September 30, 2018 from 5,895 as of September 30, 2017.29Table of ContentsKey Business MetricsNumber of customers with ACV greater than $1 million. We had 614 and 447 customers with ACV greater than $1 million as of September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The DUNS number is a global standard for business identification and tracking. We make exceptions for holding companies, government entities and other organizations for which the GULT, in our judgment, does not accurately represent the ServiceNow customer. For example, while all U.S. government agencies roll up to “Government of the United States” under the GULT, we count each government agency that we contract with as a separate customer. Our customer count is subject to adjustments for acquisitions, spin-offs and other market activity. Previously disclosed number of customers with ACV greater than $1 million as well as our average contract term calculations are restated to allow for comparability. ACV is calculated based on the foreign exchange rate in effect at the time the contract was signed. Foreign exchange rate fluctuations could cause some variability in the number of customers with ACV greater than $1 million. G2K customer count. The Forbes Global 2000 is an annual ranking of the top 2,000 public companies in the world by Forbes magazine. The Forbes Global 2000 is updated annually in the second quarter of the calendar year. Current and prior period G2K customer counts are based on the most recent list comparability purposes. We also adjust the G2K count for acquisitions, spin-offs and other market activity. For example, we add a G2K customer when a G2K company that is not our customer acquires a company in our existing customer base that is not a G2K company. When we enter into a contract with a G2K parent company, or any of its related subsidiaries, or any combination of entities within a G2K company, we count only one G2K customer. We do not count further penetration into entities within a given G2K as a new customer in the G2K customer count. Our G2K customer count also excludes customers that have only purchased our Express product offering, which is our entry-level IT service management solution. Our G2K customer count does not include large private companies, government agencies and educational organizations, which represent a growing portion of our customer base. As a result, we expect our G2K customer count metric to become less relevant to our business over time. Our G2K customer count was 860 and 789 as of September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Average ACV per G2K customer. We calculate average ACV for our G2K customers by taking aggregate ACV from G2K customers as of the end of the period divided by the total number of G2K customers as of the end of the period. ACV is calculated based on the foreign exchange rate in effect at the time the contract was entered into, and as a result, foreign currency rate fluctuations could cause variability in the average ACV per G2K customer. Prior G2K customer counts used in calculating ACV per G2K customer are adjusted for the most recent Forbes Global 2000 list for comparability purposes. Our average ACV per G2K customer was approximately $1.5 million and $1.2 million as of September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.Renewal rate. We calculate our renewal rate by subtracting our attrition rate from 100%. Accordingly, our renewal rate is calculated based on ACV and is not based on the number of customers that have renewed. Further, our renewal rate does not reflect increased or decreased purchases from our customers to the extent such customers are not lost customers. A lost customer is a customer that did not renew an expiring contract and that, in our judgment, will not be renewed. Typically, a customer that reduces its subscription upon renewal is not considered a lost customer. However, in instances where the subscription decrease represents the majority of the customer’s ACV, we may deem the renewal as a lost customer. For our renewal rate calculation, we define a customer as an entity with a separate production instance of our service and an active subscription contract as of the measurement date, instead of an entity with a unique GULT or DUNS number. Our renewal rate was 97% for each of the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, and 98% and 97% for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. As our renewal rate is impacted by the timing of renewals, which could occur in advance of, or subsequent to the original contract end date, period-to-period comparison of renewal rates may not be meaningful.Total backlog. Total backlog consists of unbilled backlog, deferred revenue and customer deposits. Unbilled backlog is an operational measure representing future unearned revenue amounts believed to be firm that are to be invoiced under our existing agreements and are not included in the deferred revenue or customer deposits on our consolidated balance sheets. In our previous Annual Reports on Form 10-K, we referred to unbilled backlog as “backlog.” We believe total backlog is a useful measure of customer adoption of our services. As of September 30, 2018, our total backlog was $4.4 billion, of which $3.0 billion was unbilled backlog and $1.4 billion was deferred revenue and customer deposits. Of this total backlog, we expect to recognize approximately 51% in revenues over the 12 months following September 30, 2018, with the balance to be recognized thereafter. 30Table of ContentsAs of December 31, 2017, our total backlog was $3.8 billion, of which $2.5 billion was unbilled backlog and $1.3 billion was deferred revenue and customer deposits, which reflects the impact of the full retrospective adoption of Topic 606. For the disclosure of unbilled backlog prior to the adoption of Topic 606, see the section entitled “Business” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 filed on February 28, 2018.We expect total backlog to fluctuate due to a number of factors, including the timing, duration and size of customer contracts, the mix of cloud and self-hosted offerings and foreign exchange rate fluctuations.Billings. We define billings, a non-GAAP financial measure, as revenues recognized plus the change in total unbilled receivables, deferred revenue and customer deposits as presented on the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows. Prior to adopting Topic 606 on January 1, 2018, we had defined billings in previous filings as revenues recognized plus the change in total deferred revenue as presented on the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows. Our current definition better aligns with Topic 606, which became effective for our interim and annual periods beginning January 1, 2018. See Note 2 for further details. While we typically bill customers annually for our subscription services, customers sometimes request, and we accommodate, billings with durations less than or greater than the typical 12-month term. •Contract start date. From time to time, we enter into contracts with a contract start date in the future, and we exclude these amounts from billings as these amounts are not included in our consolidated balance sheets, unless such amounts have been paid as of the balance sheet date. •Foreign currency exchange rates. While a majority of our billings have historically been in U.S. Dollars, an increasing percentage of our billings in recent periods has been in foreign currencies, particularly the Euro and British Pound Sterling. •Timing of contract renewals. While customers typically renew their contracts at the end of the contract term, from time to time customers may do so either before or after the scheduled expiration date. For example, in cases where we are successful in selling additional products or services to an existing customer, a customer may decide to renew its existing contract early to ensure that all its contracts expire on the same date. In other cases, prolonged negotiations or other factors may result in a contract not being renewed until after it has expired. While we believe billings is a useful leading indicator regarding the performance of our business, due to the factors described above, an increase or decrease in new or renewed subscriptions in a reporting period may not have an immediate impact on billings for that reporting period. 31Table of ContentsTo facilitate greater year-over-year comparability in our billings results, we disclose the impact that foreign currency rate fluctuations and fluctuations in billings duration had on our billings. The impact of foreign currency rate fluctuations is calculated by translating the current period results for entities reporting in currencies other than U.S. Dollars into U.S. Dollars at the average exchange rates in effect during the prior period presented, rather than the actual exchange rates in effect during the current period. The impact of fluctuations in billings duration is calculated by replacing the portion of multi-year billings in excess of 12 months during the current period with the portion of multi-year billings in excess of 12 months during the prior period presented. Notwithstanding the adjustments described above, the comparability of billings results from period to period remains subject to the impact of variations in the dollar value of contracts with future start dates and the timing of contract renewals, for which no adjustments have been presented.Foreign currency rate fluctuations had an unfavorable impact of $3.3 million on billings for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and a favorable impact $42.7 million on billings for the nine months ended September 30, 2018. Changes in billings duration had a favorable impact of $4.8 million and $3.5 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively.We have historically experienced seasonality in terms of when we enter into customer agreements for our services. We sign a significantly higher percentage of agreements with new customers, as well as renewal agreements with existing customers, in the fourth quarter of each year. The increase in customer agreements for the fourth quarter is primarily a result of the terms of our commission plans to incentivize our direct sales force to meet their annual quotas by December 31 and large enterprise account buying patterns typical in the software industry, which are driven primarily by the expiration of annual authorized budgeted expenditures. In addition, agreements entered into with the U.S. federal government have historically been higher in the third quarter of each year, driven primarily by timing of annual budget expenditures. Furthermore, we usually sign a significant portion of these agreements during the last month, and often the last two weeks, of each quarter. This seasonality in the timing of entering into customer contracts is sometimes not immediately apparent in our billings, due to the fact that we typically exclude cloud-offering contracts with a future start date from our billings. Similarly, this seasonality is reflected to a much lesser extent, and sometimes is not immediately apparent in our revenues, due to the fact that we recognize subscription revenues from our cloud offerings over the term of the license agreement, which is generally 12 to 36 months. Although these seasonal factors are common in the technology industry, historical patterns should not be considered a reliable indicator of our future sales activity or performance.Free cash flow. We define free cash flow, a non-GAAP financial measure, as GAAP net cash provided by operating activities reduced by purchases of property and equipment. Purchases of property and equipment are otherwise included in cash used in investing activities under GAAP. We believe information regarding free cash flow provides useful information to investors because it is an indicator of the strength and performance of our business operations. However, our calculation of free cash flow may not be comparable to similar measures used by other companies. In addition, free cash flow is impacted by the timing of collections and disbursements, including the timing of capital expenditures. We have historically seen higher collections in the quarter ended March 31 due to seasonality in timing of entering into customer contracts in the quarter ended December 31. We calculate the average contract term for new customers, expansion contracts, and renewals based on the terms of those contracts entered into during the period weighted by their ACV. The average new customer contract term was 32 months and 29 months for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and 35 months and 31 months for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The average expansion contract term was 24 months and 22 months for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and 25 months for each of the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017. The average renewal contract term was 25 months for each of the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, and 27 months and 26 months for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.32Table of ContentsComponents of Results of Operations RevenuesSubscription revenues. Subscription revenues are primarily comprised of fees that give customers access to the ordered subscription service for both self-hosted offerings and cloud-based subscription offerings, and related support and updates, if any, to the subscription service during the subscription term. For self-hosted offerings, a portion of the sales price is recognized upon delivery of the software, which may cause greater variability in our subscription revenues and subscription gross margin. Pricing includes multiple instances, hosting and support services, data backup and disaster recovery services, as well as future updates, when and if available, offered during the subscription term. We typically invoice our customers for subscription fees in annual increments upon execution of the initial contract or subsequent renewal. Our contracts are generally non-cancelable during the subscription term, though a customer can terminate for breach if we materially fail to perform. Professional services and other revenues. Professional services revenues consist of fees associated with professional services. Our arrangements for professional services are primarily on a time-and-materials basis. We generally invoice our professional services monthly in arrears based on actual hours and expenses incurred. Other revenues primarily consist of fees from customer training delivered on-site or through publicly available classes. Typical payment terms require our customers to pay us within 30 days of invoice. We generate sales directly through our sales team and, to a lesser extent, through our resale partners. Revenues from our direct sales organization represented 82% and 88% of our total revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and 84% and 89% for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. We make sales to our resale partners at a discount and record those revenues at the discounted price when all revenue recognition criteria have been met. From time to time, other third parties provide us referrals for which we pay a referral fee. We include revenues associated with these referrals as part of revenues from our direct sales organization. Referral fees paid to these third parties are generally 10% of the customer’s net new ACV. We include the amortization of these referral fees in sales and marketing expense.Allocation of Overhead CostsOverhead costs associated with office facilities, IT and certain depreciation related to infrastructure that is not dedicated for customer use or research and development use are allocated to cost of revenues and operating expenses based on headcount. Cost of RevenuesCost of subscription revenues. Cost of subscription revenues consists primarily of expenses related to hosting our services and providing support to our customers. These expenses are comprised of data center capacity costs, which include facility costs associated with our data centers as well as interconnectivity between data centers, depreciation related to our infrastructure hardware equipment dedicated for customer use, amortization of intangible assets and personnel-related costs directly associated with data center operations and customer support, including salaries, benefits, bonuses and stock-based compensation and allocated overhead.Cost of professional services and other revenues. Cost of professional services and other revenues consists primarily of personnel-related costs directly associated with our professional services and training departments, including salaries, benefits, bonuses and stock-based compensation, the costs of contracted third-party partners, travel expenses and allocated overhead.33Table of ContentsProfessional services are performed directly by our services team, as well as by contracted third-party partners. Fees paid to third-party partners are primarily recognized as cost of revenues as the professional services are delivered. Cost of revenues associated with our professional services engagements contracted with third-party partners as a percentage of professional services and other revenues was 16% and 21% for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and 18% and 22% for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Sales and MarketingSales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel-related expenses directly associated with our sales and marketing staff, including salaries, benefits, bonuses and stock-based compensation. Sales and marketing expenses also include the amortization of commissions paid to our sales employees and third-party referral fees, including related payroll taxes and fringe benefits. In addition, sales and marketing expenses include expenses offset by proceeds related to our annual Knowledge user conference, other marketing program expenses, which include events other than Knowledge, and costs associated with purchasing advertising and marketing data, and allocated overhead. As part of our adoption of Topic 606, during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, we recorded a decrease in sales and marketing expenses and a corresponding increase to our deferred commissions asset of $7.4 million and $5.4 million, respectively. These adjustments reflect the correction of previously undercapitalized incremental fringe benefit costs associated with sales commissions that were paid since 2012. We concluded that these adjustments were not material to the current period or any previously reported periods presented, as adjusted for the full retrospective adoption of Topic 606.Research and Development Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel-related expenses directly associated with our research and development staff, including salaries, benefits, bonuses and stock-based compensation and allocated overhead. Research and development expenses also include data center capacity costs, costs associated with outside services contracted for research and development purposes, amortization of intangible assets and depreciation of infrastructure hardware equipment that is used solely for research and development purposes. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel-related expenses for our executive, finance, legal, human resources, facilities and administrative personnel, including salaries, benefits, bonuses and stock-based compensation, external legal, accounting and other professional services fees, other corporate expenses, amortization of intangible assets and allocated overhead. Provision for Income TaxesProvision for income taxes consists of federal, state and foreign income taxes. Due to cumulative losses, we maintain a valuation allowance against our U.S. deferred tax assets as of September 30, 2018. The period-to-period comparison of financial results is not necessarily indicative of future results. See Note 2 for further details.35Table of ContentsThe following table sets forth our results of operations as a percentage of total revenues for the periods presented. See Note 2 for further details.Subscription revenues increased $177.1 million during the three months ended September 30, 2018 compared to the same period in the prior year, driven by increased purchases by existing customers and an increase in our customer count. Included in subscription revenues is $33.2 million and $15.3 million of revenues recognized upfront from the delivery of software associated with self-hosted offerings during the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. We expect subscription revenues to grow in absolute dollars and as a percentage of total revenues for the year ending December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017 as we continue to add new customers and existing customers increase their usage of our products. See Note 2 for further details.Our service management products include our platform, IT service management, IT business management, customer service management, HR service delivery and security operations, and are generally priced on a per user basis. Our ITOM products are generally priced on a per node basis.Professional services and other revenues increased $3.7 million during the three months ended September 30, 2018 compared to the same period in the prior year. We expect professional services and other revenues to grow in absolute dollars, but decline as a percentage of total revenues for the year ending December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017 as we are increasingly focused on deploying our internal professional services organization as a strategic resource and relying on our partner ecosystem to contract directly with customers for service delivery.37Table of ContentsOur international operations have provided and will continue to provide a significant portion of our total revenues. Revenues outside North America represented 33% and 34% of total revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. For entities reporting in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar, if we had translated our results for the three months ended September 30, 2018 at the exchange rates in effect for the three months ended September 30, 2017 rather than the actual exchange rates in effect during the period, our reported subscription revenues would have been $2.6 million higher. The impact from the foreign currency movements from the three months ended September 30, 2017 to the three months ended September 30, 2018 is not material to professional services and other revenues. See Note 2 for further details. Cost of subscription revenues increased $24.9 million during the three months ended September 30, 2018 compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily due to increased headcount, which resulted in an increase of $6.4 million in personnel-related costs excluding stock-based compensation, an increase of $3.8 million in stock-based compensation and an increase of $2.1 million in overhead expenses. Depreciation expense increased $5.6 million, primarily due to purchases of infrastructure hardware equipment for our data centers and expenses associated with software, IT services and technical support increased $3.6 million. In addition, data center capacity costs increased $1.3 million due to the addition of new data centers and the expansion of existing data centers and amortization of intangibles increased $1.3 million as a result of acquisitions. Our subscription gross profit percentage was 83% and 82% for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively due to improved data center utilization and economies of scale. The increase in revenues recognized upfront from the delivery of software associated with self-hosted offerings contributed to approximately one percentage point improvement in our subscription gross profit percentage for each of the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017. We expect our cost of subscription revenues to increase in absolute dollar terms for the year ending December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017 as we provide subscription services to more customers and increase usage within our customer instances. We expect our subscription gross profit percentage to improve for the year ending December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017 as we continue to leverage the investments we have made in our existing data center infrastructure. To the extent future acquisitions are consummated, our cost of subscription revenues may increase due to additional non-cash charges associated with the amortization of intangible assets acquired.Cost of professional services and other revenues increased $5.4 million during the three months ended September 30, 2018 as compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily due to increased headcount resulting in an increase of $4.6 million in personnel-related costs excluding stock-based compensation and an increase of $1.4 million in stock-based compensation, partially offset by a decrease in outside services costs of $1.3 million, primarily due to a decrease in professional services performed by contracted third-party partners. 38Table of ContentsOur professional services and other gross loss percentage increased to 10% for the three months ended September 30, 2018, from 6% for the three months ended September 30, 2017, primarily due to stock-based compensation and other personnel-related costs increasing at a higher rate than professional services and other revenues as we invest in specialized resources to support our newer products. See Note 2 for further details.Sales and marketing expenses increased $71.5 million during the three months ended September 30, 2018 compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily due to increased headcount that resulted in an increase of $15.4 million in personnel-related costs excluding stock-based compensation and commissions, an increase of $16.2 million in stock-based compensation and an increase of $6.6 million in overhead expenses. Expenses associated with commissions and third-party referral fees increased $18.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018 compared to the same period in the prior year, due to an increase in contracts with new customers, expansion and renewal contracts. Amortization expenses associated with commissions and third-party referral fees, including their related payroll taxes and fringe benefits, amounted to 6% of subscription revenues for each of the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017. Other marketing program expenses, which include events and costs associated with purchasing advertising and market data, increased $7.0 million during the three months ended September 30, 2018 compared to the same period in the prior year. Loss from write-off of property and equipment increased $4.6 million and expenses related to software subscription increased $2.4 million during the three months ended September 30, 2018 compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to write off of internal-use and subscription software. Outside services costs increased $1.3 million during the three months ended September 30, 2018 compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily due to an increase in contractors and professional fees to support our sales and marketing functions.The general strengthening of the U.S. Dollar relative to other major foreign currencies from the three months ended September 30, 2017 to the three months ended September 30, 2018 had a favorable impact on our sales and marketing expenses. See Note 2 for further details.39Table of ContentsResearch and development expenses increased $37.2 million during the three months ended September 30, 2018 compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily due to increased headcount, which resulted in an increase of $19.9 million in personnel-related costs excluding stock-based compensation, an increase of $12.4 million in stock-based compensation and an increase of $4.6 million in overhead expenses as we increase our investment in design, platform functionality and user experience.The impact from the foreign currency movements from the three months ended September 30, 2017 to the three months ended September 30, 2018 is not material to research and development expenses.We expect research and development expenses to increase in absolute dollar terms for the year ending December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017, but remain relatively flat as a percentage of total revenues as we continue to improve the existing functionality of our services, develop new applications to fill market needs and enhance our core platform. See Note 2 for further details. General and administrative expenses increased $28.2 million during the three months ended September 30, 2018 compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily due to increased headcount, which resulted in an increase of $11.3 million in personnel-related costs excluding stock-based compensation and an increase of $10.2 million in stock-based compensation. Outside services costs increased $2.7 million during the three months ended September 30, 2018 compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily due to an increase in contractors and professional fees to support our administrative function. Additionally, charitable contributions increased $2.0 million during the three months ended September 30, 2018 compared to the same period in the prior year.The impact from the foreign currency movements from the three months ended September 30, 2017 to the three months ended September 30, 2018 is not material to general and administrative expenses.We expect general and administrative expenses to increase in absolute dollar terms for the year ending December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017 as we continue to hire people, but remain relatively flat as a percentage of total revenues. See Note 2 for further details.Stock-based compensation increased $44.0 million during the three months ended September 30, 2018 compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily due to additional grants to current and new employees, and increased weighted-average grant date fair value of stock awards. Stock-based compensation is inherently difficult to forecast due to fluctuations in our stock price. Based upon our stock price as of September 30, 2018, we expect stock-based compensation to increase in absolute dollar terms for the year ending December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017 as we continue to issue stock-based awards to our employees, but remain relatively flat as a percentage of total revenues. Our foreign currency exchange exposures were largely mitigated by the derivative contracts we have entered into during the three months ended September 30, 2018 compared to no derivative contracts in the same period in the prior year. These hedging contracts may reduce, but cannot entirely eliminate, the impact of adverse currency exchange rate movements. See Note 2 for further details. The cash tax expenses are impacted by each jurisdiction’s individual tax rates, laws on timing of recognition of income and deductions, and availability of net operating losses and tax credits. Given the full valuation allowance and sensitivity of current cash taxes to local rules, we expect that our effective tax rate could fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis and could be adversely affected to the extent earnings are lower than anticipated in countries that have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries that have higher statutory rates. See Note 2 for further details.Net loss decreased $30.6 million during the three months ended September 30, 2018 compared to the same period in the prior year. See Note 2 for further details.Subscription revenues increased $515.4 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 compared to the same period in the prior year, driven by increased purchases by existing customers and an increase in our customer count. Included in subscription revenues is $89.3 million and $54.1 million of revenues recognized upfront from the delivery of software associated with self-hosted offerings during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. See Note 2 for further details.Our service management products include our platform, IT service management, IT business management, customer service management, HR service delivery and security operations, and are generally priced on a per user basis. Our ITOM products are generally priced on a per node basis.Professional services and other revenues increased $8.6 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 compared to the same period in the prior year, due to an increase in services provided to our growing customer base. Our international operations have provided and will continue to provide a significant portion of our total revenues. Revenues outside North America represented 34% and 32% of total revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. See Note 2 for further details. Cost of subscription revenues increased $75.9 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily due to increased headcount resulting in an increase of $24.4 million in personnel-related costs excluding stock-based compensation, an increase of $10.7 million in stock-based compensation and an increase of $7.4 million in overhead expenses. Depreciation expense increased $15.6 million primarily due to purchases of infrastructure hardware equipment for our data centers and expenses associated with software, IT services and technical support increased $7.6 million. In addition, data center capacity costs increased $4.0 million due to the addition of new data centers and the expansion of existing data centers, amortization of intangibles increased $3.1 million as a result of acquisitions and outside services costs increased $1.9 million due to an increase in contractors to support our subscription revenues.Our subscription gross profit percentage was 83% and 82% for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, due to improved data center utilization and economies of scale. The increase in revenues recognized upfront from the delivery of software associated with self-hosted offerings contributed to approximately one percentage point improvement in our the subscription gross profit percentage for each of the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017.Cost of professional services and other revenues increased $12.9 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 as compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily due to increased headcount resulting in an increase of $11.4 million in personnel-related costs excluding stock-based compensation, an increase of $2.8 million in stock-based compensation and an increase of $2.2 million in overhead expenses. The increase in cost of professional services and other revenues was partially offset by a decrease in outside services costs of $3.0 million, primarily due to a decrease in professional services performed by contracted third-party partners. Our professional services and other gross loss percentage increased to 9% for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, from 6% for the nine months ended September 30, 2017, primarily due to stock-based compensation and other personnel-related costs increasing at a higher rate than professional services and other revenues as we invest in specialized resources to support our newer products.The general weakening of the U.S. Dollar relative to other major foreign currencies from the nine months ended September 30, 2017 to the nine months ended September 30, 2018 had an unfavorable impact on our cost of revenues. See Note 2 for further details.Sales and marketing expenses increased $239.9 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily due to increased headcount that resulted in an increase of $88.8 million in personnel-related costs excluding stock-based compensation and commissions, an increase of $44.6 million in stock-based compensation and an increase of $21.5 million in overhead expenses. Expenses associated with commissions and third-party referral fees increased $39.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 compared to the same period in the prior year, due to an increase in contracts with new customers, expansion and renewal contracts. Amortization expenses associated with commissions and third-party referral fees, including their related payroll taxes and fringe benefits amounted to 6% of subscription revenues for each of the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017. Outside services costs increased $9.3 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily due to an increase in contractors and professional fees to support our sales and marketing functions. Marketing program expenses, which include events other than Knowledge, and costs associated with purchasing advertising and market data, increased $21.8 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 compared to the same period in the prior year. Expenses related to our annual Knowledge user conference, net of proceeds increased $6.8 million due to a 21% year-over-year increase in registrations. Loss from write-off of property and equipment increased $4.6 million and expenses related to software subscription increased $2.9 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to write off of internal-use and subscription software.The general weakening of the U.S. Dollar relative to other major foreign currencies from the nine months ended September 30, 2017 to the nine months ended September 30, 2018 had an unfavorable impact on our sales and marketing expenses. See Note 2 for further details.Research and development expenses increased $107.9 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily due to increased headcount, which resulted in an increase of $58.2 million in personnel-related costs excluding stock-based compensation, an increase of $30.3 million in stock-based compensation and an increase $14.6 million in overhead expenses. See Note 2 for further details.General and administrative expenses increased $66.6 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily due to increased headcount, which resulted in an increase of $31.6 million in personnel-related costs excluding stock-based compensation and an increase of $24.5 million in stock-based compensation. Outside services costs increased $6.3 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily due to an increase in contractors and professional fees to support our administrative function. See Note 2 for further details.Stock-based compensation increased $112.9 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily due to additional grants to current and new employees and increased weighted-average grant date fair value of stock awards. Refer to Note 2 for further details. See Note 2 for further details.Net loss decreased $65.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 compared to the same period in the prior year due to the adoption of Topic 606, which required us to record a one-time indirect tax benefit of $23.1 million, and $19.3 million in realized gain on marketable equity investments that we sold during the nine months ended September 30, 2018.Liquidity and Capital ResourcesOur principal sources of liquidity are our cash and cash equivalents, investments, and cash generated from operations. As of September 30, 2018, our principal sources of liquidity were $1.6 billion in cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments, of which $274.5 million represented cash held by foreign subsidiaries and $270.5 million was denominated in currencies other than U.S. Dollar. In addition, we had $457.6 million in long-term investments that provide additional capital resources. We do not anticipate that we will need funds generated from foreign operations to fund our domestic operations.The price of our common stock was greater than or equal to 130% of the conversion price of the 2022 Notes for at least 20 trading days during the 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the quarters ended June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2018. Therefore, the 2022 Notes became convertible at the holders’ option beginning on July 1, 2018 and continue to be convertible at the holders’ option through December 31, 2018. Through the filing date, we have not received any conversion requests for our 2022 Notes. The price of our common stock was greater than or equal to 130% of the conversion price of the 2018 Notes for at least 20 trading days during the 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the quarter ended June 30, 2017, September 30, 2017, December 31, 2017, and March 31, 2018, respectively. Therefore, the 2018 Notes became convertible at the holders’ option beginning on July 1, 2017 and continued to be convertible at the holders’ option through June 30, 2018.During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we paid cash to settle $413.2 million principal amount of the 2018 Notes and recorded a loss on early note conversions of $4.1 million. The loss on early note conversions for the three months ended September 30, 2018 was not material. As a result of the settlements, we also recorded a $6.4 million net reduction to additional paid-in capital, reflecting $554.4 million fair value adjustments to the conversion option settled, offset by a $548.0 million benefit from the 2018 Note Hedge. For conversion requests received on or after the July 1, 2018 Convertible Date for the 2018 Notes, the remaining principal amount of the 2018 Notes of $161.8 million was settled in cash on the maturity date, which was November 1, 2018.Based on the stock price as of September 30, 2018, we expect to issue additional shares in the first half of 2019 upon the exercise of the 2018 Warrants. The number of shares to be issued depends on the stock price over a 60 trading day period beginning on the first expiration date of the 2018 Warrants, which is February 1, 2019. Because exercises of the 2018 Warrants will be net share settled, there will not be an impact on our liquidity. Refer to Note 11 in the notes to our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information.We anticipate our current cash and cash equivalents balance and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet our liquidity needs, including the repayment of our Notes, expansion of data centers, lease obligations, expenditures related to the growth of our headcount and the acquisition of fixed assets, intangibles, and investments in office facilities, to accommodate our growth for at least the next 12 months. See Note 2 for further details.Operating ActivitiesCash provided by operating activities mainly consists of our net loss adjusted for certain non-cash items such as repayments of convertible senior notes attributable to debt discount, depreciation and amortization, amortization of premiums on investments, amortization of deferred commissions, amortization of issuance cost and debt discount, stock-based compensation and changes in operating assets and liabilities during the year.Net cash provided by operating activities was $521.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 compared to $458.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017. The increase in operating cash flow was primarily due to a decrease in net loss of $65.8 million. The remaining change was due to an unfavorable impact on operating cash flow from changes in operating assets and liabilities, offset by an increase in non-cash adjustments to reconcile net loss to net cash provided by operations. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was $100.3 million compared to $365.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017. The decrease in cash used in investing activities was mainly due to a $291.7 million decrease in net purchases of investments, partially offset by a $20.5 million increase in capital expenditures related to purchases of infrastructure hardware equipment to support the expansion of our data centers as well as investments in leasehold improvements, furniture and equipment to support our headcount growth and a $7.4 million increase in purchase of other intangibles.Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities was $433.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 compared to net cash provided by financing activities of $586.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017. During the nine months ended September 30, 2017, we had $698.2 million in net proceeds from issuance of the 2022 Notes and the related note hedge and warrant transactions, and used $55.0 million in cash to repurchase shares of our common stock. During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we had additional financing cash outflows of $311.5 million relating to the repayments of the 2018 Notes attributable to principal and $90.1 million increase in taxes paid related to net share settlement of equity awards, partially offset by a $23.7 million increase in proceeds from employee equity plans.Contractual Obligations and Commitments Except as set forth in Note 17, Commitments and Contingencies, of the notes to our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, there have been no material changes outside the ordinary course of business in the contractual obligations and commitments disclosed in our Annual Report on 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.Off-Balance Sheet ArrangementsDuring all periods presented, we did not have any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Revenues are recognized when control of these services is transferred to our customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those services. For our cloud services, we recognize subscription revenues ratably over the contract term beginning on the commencement date of each contract, the date we make our services available to our customers. Our contracts with customers typically include a fixed amount of consideration and are generally non-cancelable and without any refund-type provisions. We typically invoice our customers annually in advance for our subscription services upon execution of the initial contract or subsequent renewal, and our invoices are typically due within 30 days from the invoice date.Subscription revenues also include revenues from self-hosted offerings in which customers deploy, or we grant customers the option to deploy without significant penalty, our subscription service internally or contract with a third party to host the software. Transaction price allocated to the software element is recognized upon delivery, which is when transfer of control of the software to the customer is complete. The transaction price allocated to the related support and updates are recognized ratably over the contract term. Professional services and other revenuesOur professional services arrangements are primarily on a time-and-materials basis, and revenues on these arrangements are recognized as the services are delivered. We typically invoice our customers monthly in arrears for these professional services based on actual hours and expenses incurred, and our invoices are typically due within 30 days from the invoice date. Professional services revenues associated with fixed fee arrangements are recognized on a proportional performance basis. In instances where certain milestones are required to be met before revenues are recognized, we defer professional services revenues and the associated costs until milestone criteria have been met. Other revenues consist of fees from customer training delivered on-site or through publicly available classes.51Table of ContentsContracts with multiple performance obligationsWe enter into contracts that can include various combinations of products and services, which are generally capable of being distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations. For these contracts, the transaction price is allocated to the separate performance obligations on a relative SSP basis. Determining whether products and services are considered distinct performance obligations that should be accounted for separately versus together may require significant judgment. Significant judgment is also involved in determining SSP by considering the historical selling price of these performance obligations in similar transactions as well as other factors, including, but not limited to, competitive pricing of similar products, other software vendor pricing, industry publications and current pricing practices.Deferred CommissionsDeferred commissions are the incremental selling costs that are associated with acquiring customer contracts and consist primarily of sales commissions paid to our sales force and referral fees paid to independent third-parties. Capitalized sales commissions also include the associated payroll taxes and fringe benefit costs associated with payments to our sales employees to the extent they are incremental. On initial and expansion contracts, commissions and referral fees are primarily deferred and amortized over a period of benefit that we have determined to be five years. On renewal contracts, commissions are deferred and amortized over the average renewal term. Additionally, for self-hosted offerings, consistent with the recognition of subscription revenue for self-hosted offerings, a portion of the commission cost is expensed upfront when the self-hosted offering is made available. The determination of the period of benefit requires significant judgment by taking into consideration our customer contracts, our technology life cycle and other factors. New Accounting Pronouncements Pending AdoptionThe impact of recently issued accounting standards is set forth in Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, of the notes to our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. ITEM 3. QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISKExcept as set forth below, there have been no material changes in our market risk as compared to the disclosures in Part II, Item 7A in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, which was filed with the SEC on February 28, 2018.Foreign Currency Exchange RiskIn order to manage certain exposures to currency fluctuations, we initiated a limited hedging program beginning in the three months ended March 31, 2018 by entering into foreign currency derivative contracts to hedge a portion of our net outstanding monetary assets and liabilities. These derivative contracts include forward contracts entered into with various counterparties and are not designated as hedging instruments under applicable accounting standard. These derivative contracts are intended to offset the foreign currency gains or losses associated with the underlying monetary assets and liabilities, and cash flows from such derivative contracts are classified as operating activities.These derivative contracts expose us to credit risk to the extent that the counterparties may be unable to meet the terms of the arrangement. We mitigate this credit risk by transacting with major financial institutions with high credit ratings and entering into master netting arrangements, which permit net settlement of transactions with the same counterparty. While the contract or notional amount is often used to express the volume of foreign currency derivative contracts, the amounts potentially subject to credit risk are generally limited to the amounts, if any, by which the counterparties’ obligations under the agreements exceed our obligations to the counterparties. We are not required to pledge, and are not entitled to receive, cash collateral related to these derivative instruments. We do not enter into derivative contracts for trading or speculative purposes. Refer to Note 8 in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information.52Table of ContentsITEM 4. Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in our reports filed under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, or persons performing similar functions, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required or necessary disclosures. In designing and evaluating our disclosure controls and procedures, management recognizes that disclosure controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the disclosure controls and procedures are met. Additionally, in designing disclosure controls and procedures, our management necessarily was required to apply its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible disclosure controls and procedures. Our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded, based on the evaluation of the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures by our management as of the end of the quarter covered by this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective at the reasonable assurance level for this purpose. In connection with their evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer did not identify any change in our internal control over financial reporting during the quarter covered by this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q that materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.53Table of ContentsPART IIITEM 1. LEGAL PROCEEDINGSFrom time to time, we are party to litigation and other legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business. While the results of any litigation or other legal proceedings are uncertain, we are not presently a party to any legal proceedings that, if determined adversely to us, would individually or taken together have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSInvesting in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, including our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes, before making an investment decision. We have identified the following risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. Our business could be harmed by any of these risks. We also expect our costs to increase in future periods as we continue to invest in our capacity to support anticipated growth. These investments may not result in increased revenues or growth in our business. Even if our revenues continue to increase, we may incur losses in accordance with GAAP during future periods due to increased costs such as non-cash charges associated with equity awards, business combinations and other expenses. Additionally, we may encounter unforeseen operating expenses, difficulties, complications, delays and other unforeseen or unpredictable factors that may result in increased costs. Furthermore, it is difficult to predict the size and growth rate of our market, customer demand for our products, customer adoption and renewal rates, and the entry of competitive products or the success of existing competitive products. As a result of these and other factors, we may not maintain profitability in the future, our gross margins may be negatively impacted, and our ability to generate cash flow from operations may be negatively impacted. If we fail to increase our revenues sufficiently to keep pace with our growing investments and other expenses, our business, operating results and growth prospects will be adversely affected.54Table of ContentsIf we or our third-party service providers suffer a cyber-security event, we may lose customers and incur significant liabilities, any of which would harm our business and operating results.Our operations involve the storage, transmission and processing of our customers’ confidential, proprietary and sensitive data, including personally identifiable information, protected health information and credit card and other financial information. While we have security measures in place designed to protect customer information and prevent data loss, these measures may be breached as a result of employee error or third-party actions, including unintentional events or deliberate attacks by cyber criminals, and result in someone obtaining unauthorized access to our customers’ data or our data, including our intellectual property and other confidential business information. In addition, third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees, contractors, or users to disclose information to gain access to our data or our customers’ data, and we may be the target of email scams that attempt to acquire personal information or company assets. Additionally, because we do not control our third-party service providers, or the processing of data by our third-party service providers, we cannot ensure the integrity or security of measures they take to protect customer information and prevent data loss. Moreover, computer malware, viruses and hacking, phishing and denial of service attacks by third parties have become more prevalent in our industry, and have occurred on our and our third-party service providers’ systems in the past and may occur on these systems in the future. Because techniques used to sabotage or obtain unauthorized access to systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until successfully launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. We devote significant financial and personnel resources to implement and maintain security measures; however, as cyber-security threats develop, evolve, and grow more complex over time, it may be necessary to make significant further investments to protect data and infrastructure. A security breach suffered by us or our third-party service providers, an attack against our service availability or unauthorized access or loss of data could result in a disruption to our service, litigation, the triggering of service availability, indemnification and other contractual obligations, regulatory investigations, government fines and penalties, reputational damage, loss of sales and customers, mitigation and remediation expenses and other significant costs and liabilities. We also cannot be certain that our existing insurance coverage will continue to be available on acceptable terms or will be available in sufficient amounts to cover the potentially significant losses that may result from a security incident or breach or that the insurer will not deny coverage as to any future claim.If we do not accurately predict, prepare for, and respond promptly to rapidly evolving technological, market and customer developments, our competitive position and business prospects may be harmed. The markets in which we compete continue to evolve rapidly, and the pace of innovation will continue to accelerate, as public and private cloud solutions and infrastructure, massively scalable databases, mobile, workflow, consumer product-like user experiences, social, collaboration, machine learning, artificial intelligence, internet connected devices, robotic automation, security, cryptography, development tools and other digital technologies increasingly become the basis for customer purchases. At the same time, our customers and prospective customers are either facing their own competitive imperatives to adopt digital technologies, or have been built on fully digital, modern IT technologies, resulting in the ongoing disruption of almost every sector of the global economy. Acquisitions, integrations and consolidation by and among companies in our industry may further accelerate changes in the markets in which we participate. If we fail to meet any of these requirements, our competitive position and business prospects may be harmed.Delays in the release of, or actual or perceived defects in, new or updated products may slow the adoption of our most recent technologies, reduce our ability to efficiently provide our services, decrease customer satisfaction, increase our vulnerability to cyber attacks, and adversely impact sales of additional products to our customers.We must successfully continue to release new products and updates to existing products. The success of any release depends on a number of factors, including our ability to manage the risks associated with quality or other defects or deficiencies, delays in the timing of releases or the adoption of releases by customers, and other complications that may arise during the early stages of introduction. If releases are delayed or if customers perceive that our releases contain bugs or other defects or are otherwise difficult to implement, customer adoption of our new products or updates may be adversely impacted, customer satisfaction may decrease, our ability to efficiently provide our services may be reduced, and our growth prospects may be harmed. 55Table of ContentsVarious factors, including our customers’ business, integration, migration and security requirements, or errors by us or our partners, may cause implementations of our products to be delayed, inefficient or otherwise unsuccessful.Our business depends upon the successful implementation of our products by our customers. Increasingly, we, as well as our customers, rely on our network of partners to deliver implementation services, and there may not be enough qualified implementation partners available to meet customer demand. Further, various factors, including our customers’ business, integration, migration and security requirements, or errors by us or our partners, may cause implementations to be delayed, inefficient or otherwise unsuccessful. For example, changes in the functional requirements of our customers, delays in timeline, or deviation from recommended best practices may occur during the course of an implementation project. As a result of these and other risks, we or our customers may incur significant implementation costs in connection with the purchase, implementation and enablement of our products. Some customer implementations may take longer than planned or fail to meet our customers’ expectations, which may delay our ability to sell additional products or result in customers canceling or failing to renew their subscriptions before our products have been fully implemented. Unsuccessful, lengthy, or costly customer implementation and integration projects could result in claims from customers, harm to our reputation, and opportunities for competitors to displace our products, each of which could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. Disruptions or defects in our services could damage our customers’ businesses, subject us to substantial liability and harm our reputation and financial results.From time to time, we experience defects in our services, and new defects may be detected in the future. For example, we provide regular updates to our services, which frequently contain undetected defects when first introduced or released. Defects may also be introduced by our use of third-party software, including open source software. Disruptions may result from errors we make in delivering, configuring or hosting our services, or designing, installing, expanding or maintaining our cloud infrastructure. Disruptions in service can also result from incidents that are outside of our control, including denial of service attacks. We currently serve our customers primarily using equipment managed by us and co-located in third-party data center facilities operated by several different providers located around the world. These centers are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss and similar events. They may also be subject to break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and similar misconduct, equipment failure and adverse events caused by operator error. Despite precautions taken at these facilities, problems at these facilities could result in lengthy interruptions in our services and the loss of customer data. In addition, our customers may use our services in ways that cause disruptions in service for other customers. Our customers use our services to manage important aspects of their own businesses, and our reputation and business will be adversely affected if our customers and potential customers believe our services are unreliable. Disruptions or defects in our services may reduce our revenues, cause us to issue credits or pay penalties, subject us to claims and litigation, cause our customers to delay payment or terminate or fail to renew their subscriptions, and adversely affect our ability to attract new customers. The occurrence of payment delays, or service credit, warranty, termination for material breach or other claims against us, could result in an increase in our bad debt expense, an increase in collection cycles for accounts receivable, an increase to our service level credit accruals or other increased expenses or risks of litigation. We do not have insurance sufficient to compensate us for the potentially significant losses that may result from claims arising from disruptions in our services.56Table of ContentsOur operating results may vary significantly from period to period, and if we fail to meet the financial performance expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of our common stock could decline substantially.Our operating results may vary significantly from period to period as a result of various factors, some of which are beyond our control. For any quarterly or annual period, there is a risk that our financial performance will not meet the financial guidance we have previously given for that period, or that we may otherwise fail to meet the financial performance expectations of the securities analysts who issue reports on our company and our common stock price, or of investors in our common stock. There is also a risk that we may issue forward-looking financial guidance for a quarterly or annual period that fails to meet the expectations of such securities analysts or investors. If any of the foregoing occurs, for any reason either within or outside of our control, the price of our common stock could decline substantially and investors in our common stock could incur substantial losses. We believe that our provision for income taxes is reasonable, but the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods in which such outcome is determined. Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings and losses in countries with differing statutory tax rates, certain non-deductible expenses, the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities and the effects of acquisitions. Increases in our effective tax rate would reduce our profitability or in some cases increase our losses.57Table of ContentsAdditionally, our future effective tax rate could be impacted by changes in accounting principles or changes in U.S. federal, state or international tax laws or tax rulings. The U.S. recently enacted significant tax reform, and certain provisions of the new law may adversely affect us. Many countries and organizations such as the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development are actively considering changes to existing tax laws or have proposed or enacted new laws that could increase our tax obligations in countries where we do business or cause us to change the way we operate our business. Any changes in federal, state or international tax laws or tax rulings may increase our worldwide effective tax rate and harm our financial position and results of operations.In addition, we may be subject to income tax audits by tax jurisdictions throughout the world, many of which have not established clear guidance on the tax treatment of cloud computing companies. Although we believe our income tax liabilities are reasonably estimated and accounted for in accordance with applicable laws and principles, an adverse resolution of one or more uncertain tax positions in any period could have a material impact on the results of operations for that period.Uncertainties in the interpretation and application of the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act could materially affect our tax obligations and effective tax rate. The U.S. Department of Treasury has broad authority to issue regulations and interpretative guidance that may significantly impact how we will apply the law and affect our results of operations in the period issued.The Tax Act requires complex computations not previously provided in U.S. tax law. As such, the application of accounting guidance for such items is currently uncertain. Further, compliance with the Tax Act and the accounting for such provisions require accumulation of information not previously required or regularly produced. As a result, we have provided a provisional estimate on the effect of the Tax Act in our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017. Our final analysis, which will be recorded in the period completed, may be different from our current provisional amounts and could materially affect our tax obligations and effective tax rate. Such analysis may be affected by additional regulatory guidance issued by the applicable tax authorities, clarifications in accounting treatment, additional analysis on the application of the law, and refined estimates in calculating the impact of the Tax Act. Refer to Note 2 in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information on our provisional estimates on the effect of the Tax Act. Through September 30, 2018, we did not have any significant adjustments to our provisional amounts. New accounting pronouncements and changes in accounting principles have occurred in the past and are expected to occur in the future, which may have a significant effect on our financial results. Topic 606 superseded nearly all prior revenue recognition standards under GAAP. Under the Topic 606 standard, revenue is recognized when a customer obtains control of promised goods or services and is recognized in an amount that reflects the consideration which the entity expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services. Topic 606 has had a material impact on the timing of revenue and expense recognition for our contracts related to self-hosted offerings and on our deferred commissions asset and the related amortization expense. Refer to Note 2 in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information on Topic 606 and its impact on us. Adoption of this standard and any difficulties in implementation of changes in accounting principles, including the ability to modify our accounting systems and internal controls, could cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations, which could result in regulatory discipline and harm investors’ confidence in us.58Table of ContentsForeign currency exchange rate fluctuations could harm our financial results.We conduct significant transactions, including revenue transactions and intercompany transactions, in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar or the functional operating currency of the transactional entities. In addition, our international subsidiaries maintain significant net assets that are denominated in currencies other than the functional operating currencies of these entities. Accordingly, changes in the value of currencies relative to the U.S. Dollar may impact our consolidated revenues and operating results due to transactional and translational remeasurement that is reflected in our earnings. It is particularly difficult to forecast any impact from exchange rate movements, so there is risk that unanticipated currency fluctuations could adversely affect our financial results or cause our results to differ from investor expectations or our own guidance in any future periods. In addition, the June 23, 2016 referendum by British voters to exit the European Union adversely impacted global markets, including currencies, and resulted in a decline in the value of the British pound, as compared to the U.S. Dollar and other currencies. Volatility in exchange rates and global financial markets may continue due to a number of factors, including the continued negotiation of the United Kingdom’s exit from the European Union and the recent political and economic uncertainty globally.We recently began using derivative instruments, such as foreign currency forwards, to hedge certain exposures to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. These hedging contracts may reduce, but cannot entirely eliminate, the impact of adverse currency exchange rate movements. Further, unanticipated changes in currency exchange rates may result in poorer overall financial performance than if we had not engaged in any such hedging transactions. Moreover, for a number of reasons, including our limited experience with these hedging contracts, we may not seek or be able to establish a perfect correlation between such hedging instruments and the exposures being hedged. Any such imperfect correlation may prevent us from achieving the intended hedge and expose us to risk of loss.The markets in which we participate are intensely competitive, and if we do not compete effectively our business and operating results will be adversely affected.The markets for our enterprise cloud solutions are rapidly evolving and highly competitive, with relatively low barriers to entry. As the market for service management matures and new technologies and competitors enter the market, we expect competition to intensify. We compete primarily with large, well-established, enterprise application software vendors, in-house solutions, large integrated systems vendors, established and emerging cloud vendors and vendors of products and services for development operations. Many prospective customers have invested substantial personnel and financial resources to implement and integrate their current enterprise software into their businesses and therefore may be reluctant or unwilling to migrate away from their current solution to our enterprise cloud solutions. Many of our competitors and potential competitors are larger, have greater name recognition, longer operating histories, more established customer relationships, larger marketing budgets and greater resources than we do. Further, other potential competitors not currently offering competitive products may expand their services to compete with our services. Acquisitions, integrations and consolidation by and among other companies in our industry may allow potential competitors to offer integrated or bundled products, enhanced functionality, or other advantages, which may impact our competitive position. We have expanded the breadth of our services to include offerings in the markets for IT operations management, customer service management, security operations management, HR service delivery and use of our platform by developers of custom applications. As a result, we expect increasing competition from platform vendors and from application development vendors focused on these other markets. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards, customer requirements and buying practices. In addition, some of our competitors offer their products or services at a lower price, which has resulted in pricing pressures. Larger competitors with more diverse product and service offerings may reduce the price of products or subscriptions that compete with ours or may bundle them with other products and subscriptions. We expect that smaller competitors and new entrants may accelerate pricing pressures, including in the IT service management market, which is our more mature offering and from which we derive the substantial majority of our revenues. For all of these reasons, we may not be able to compete successfully, and competition could result in reduced sales, reduced margins, losses or the failure of our solutions to achieve or maintain market acceptance, any of which could harm our business.Lawsuits against us by third-parties that allege we infringe their intellectual property rights could harm our business and operating results.There is considerable patent and other intellectual property development activity in our industry. Many companies in our industry, including our competitors and other third parties, as well as non-practicing entities, own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, which they may use to assert claims of patent infringement, misappropriation or other violations of intellectual property rights against us. 59Table of ContentsMoreover, the patent portfolios of most of our competitors are larger than ours. This disparity may increase the risk that our competitors may sue us for patent infringement and may limit our ability to counterclaim for patent infringement or settle through patent cross-licenses. From time to time, our competitors or other third parties, including patent holding companies seeking to monetize patents they have purchased or otherwise obtained, may claim that we are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. For example, we recorded charges for aggregate legal settlements of $270.0 million in our consolidated statement of comprehensive loss during the year ended December 31, 2016. Further, upon expiration of the term of any third-party agreements that allow us to use their intellectual property, we may be unable to renew such agreements on favorable terms, if at all, in which case we may face intellectual property litigation. Accordingly, any claim or litigation against us could be costly, time-consuming and divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations and harm our financial condition and operating results. Our intellectual property protections may not provide us with a competitive advantage, and defending our intellectual property may result in substantial expenses that harm our operating results. Our success depends to a significant degree on our ability to protect our proprietary technology and our brand under a combination of patent and other intellectual property laws of the United States and other jurisdictions. Though we seek patent protection for our technology, we may not be successful in obtaining patent protection, and any patents acquired in the future may not provide us with competitive advantages, or may be successfully challenged by third parties. Furthermore, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights are uncertain. Any of our intellectual property rights may be challenged by others or invalidated through administrative process or litigation. Effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available to us in every country in which our services are available. The laws of some foreign countries may not be as protective of intellectual property rights as those in the United States, and mechanisms for enforcement of intellectual property rights may be inadequate. We may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect our intellectual property rights. We have initiated, and in the future may initiate, claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights or to establish the validity of our proprietary rights. Any litigation, whether or not it is resolved in our favor, could result in significant expense to us, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel and may result in counter-claims with respect to infringement of intellectual property rights by us. If we are unable to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property, or are required to incur substantial expenses in defending our intellectual property rights, our business and operating results may be adversely affected.60Table of ContentsIf we are unsuccessful in increasing our penetration of international markets or managing the risks associated with foreign markets, our business and operating results will be adversely affected.Sales outside of North America represented approximately 33% and 34% of our total revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and 34% and 32% of our total revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Our business and future prospects depend on increasing our international sales as a percentage of our total revenues, and the failure to grow internationally will harm our business. Additionally, operating in international markets requires significant investment and management attention and will subject us to regulatory and economic risks that are different from those in the United States. We have made, and will continue to make, substantial investments in data centers and cloud computing infrastructure, sales, marketing, personnel and facilities as we enter and expand in new geographic markets. When we make these investments, it is typically unclear whether, and when, sales in the new market will justify our investments, and we may significantly underestimate the level of investment and time required to be successful, or whether we will be successful. Our rate of acquisition of new Global 2000 customers, a factor effecting our growth, has generally been lower in Africa, Asia, Eastern Europe, South America and other markets in which we are less established, as compared to North America, Australia and areas within Western Europe. An increasing proportion of the Global 2000 companies and large enterprise customers that are not yet our customers are located in emerging markets where we are less established. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, difficulties in some of our investments in geographic expansion, including in hiring qualified sales management personnel and managing foreign operations. From time to time, there may be changes in our management team resulting from the hiring or departure of executives. Such changes may result in a loss of institutional knowledge and cause disruptions to our business. In the technology industry, there is substantial and continuous competition for engineers with high levels of experience in designing, developing and managing software and Internet-related solutions, as well as competition for sales executives and operations personnel. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel. We have from time to time experienced, and we may continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications, and may not be able to fill positions in desired geographic areas or at all. In particular, competition for experienced software and cloud computing infrastructure engineers in the San Francisco Bay area, San Diego, Seattle, London and Amsterdam, our primary operating locations, is intense. Our employees, including our executive officers, are employed by us on an “at-will” basis, which means they may terminate their employment with us at any time. If we fail to attract new personnel or fail to retain and motivate our current personnel, our business and future growth prospects could be adversely affected.61Table of ContentsPrivacy laws and concerns, evolving regulation of cloud computing, cross-border data transfer restrictions, other foreign and domestic regulations and standards related to personal data and the Internet may adversely affect our business.National and local governments or agencies have in the past adopted, and may in the future adopt, laws and regulations affecting data privacy, the use of the Internet as a commercial medium, and data sovereignty requirements concerning the location of data centers that store and process data. Changing laws, regulations and standards applying to the collection, transfer, processing, storage or use of personal data could affect our customers’ ability to use and share data, potentially restricting our ability to store, process and share data with our customers in connection with providing our services, and in some cases, could impact our ability to offer our services in certain locations or our customers’ ability to deploy our services globally. Additionally, in 2016 the EU adopted the GDPR, which took effect on May 25, 2018 and established new requirements applicable to the handling of personal data. Further, laws such as the EU’s proposed e-Privacy Regulation are increasingly aimed at the use of personal information for marketing purposes, and the tracking of individuals’ online activities. In addition, in June 2018 the CCPA was signed into law, which takes effect in January 2020 and broadly defines personal information and provides California consumers increased privacy rights and protections. The costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, the GDPR, the e-Privacy Regulation, the CCPA and other privacy laws, regulations and standards may cause us to incur substantial operational costs or require us to modify our data handling practices, may limit the use and adoption of our services and reduce overall demand for our services. In addition, non-compliance could result in proceedings against us by governmental entities or others, significant fines, and may otherwise adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results.In addition to government activity, privacy advocacy groups and other technology and industry groups have established or may establish various new, additional or different self-regulatory standards that may place additional burdens on us. Our customers may expect us to meet voluntary certifications or adhere to other standards established by third parties. If we are unable to maintain these certifications or meet these standards, it could reduce demand for our applications and adversely affect our business.Because we generally recognize revenues from our subscription service over the subscription term, a decrease in new or renewed subscriptions during a reporting period may not be immediately reflected in our operating results for that period. We generally recognize revenues from customers ratably over the terms of their subscriptions. As a result, most of the revenues we report in each period are derived from the recognition of deferred revenues relating to subscriptions entered into during previous periods. Consequently, a decrease in new or renewed subscriptions in any single reporting period will have a limited impact on our revenues for that period. In addition, our ability to adjust our cost structure in the event of a decrease in new or renewed subscriptions may be limited.Further, a decline in new or renewed subscriptions in a given period will negatively affect our revenues in future periods. Accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in sales and market acceptance of our services, and changes in our rate of renewals, may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. Our subscription model also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenues through additional sales in any period, as revenues from new customers are generally recognized over the applicable subscription term. Additionally, due to the complexity of certain of our customer contracts, the actual revenue recognition treatment required under Topic 606 will depend on contract-specific terms and may result in greater variability in revenues from period to period.In addition, a decrease in new or renewed subscriptions in a reporting period may not have an immediate impact on billings for that period due to factors that may offset the decrease, such as an increase in billings duration, the dollar value of contracts with future start dates, or the dollar value of collections in the current period related to contracts with future start dates.62Table of ContentsAs we acquire or invest in companies and technologies, we may not realize the expected business or financial benefits and the acquisitions and investments may divert our management’s attention and result in additional dilution to our stockholders.We have acquired or invested in companies and technologies in the past as part of our business strategy and may continue to evaluate potential strategic transactions, including acquisitions of, or investments in, businesses, technologies, services, products and other assets in the future. We also may enter into relationships with other businesses to expand our service offerings, functionality or our ability to provide services in international locations, which could involve preferred or exclusive licenses, additional channels of distribution, discount pricing or investments in other companies. Furthermore, if we finance acquisitions by issuing equity or convertible or other debt securities or loans, our existing stockholders may be diluted, or we could face constraints related to the terms of and repayment obligation related to the incurrence of indebtedness that could affect the market price of our common stock. The occurrence of any of these risks could harm our business, operating results and financial condition.A portion of our revenues are generated by sales to government entities and heavily regulated organizations, which are subject to a number of challenges and risks.A portion of our sales are to governmental agencies, and we have made, and may continue to make, significant investments to support future sales opportunities in the government sector. A substantial majority of our sales to date to government entities have been made indirectly through our distribution and reseller partners. Additionally, many of our current and prospective customers, such as those in the financial services and health care industries, are highly regulated and may be required to comply with more stringent regulations in connection with subscribing to and implementing our services. Selling to these entities can be highly competitive, expensive and time consuming, often requiring significant upfront time and expense without any assurance that we will successfully complete a sale. Furthermore, engaging in sales activities to foreign governments introduces additional compliance risks specific to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act and other similar statutory requirements prohibiting bribery and corruption in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Government and highly regulated entities often require contract terms that differ from our standard arrangements and impose compliance requirements that are complicated, require preferential pricing or “most favored nation” terms and conditions, or are otherwise time consuming and expensive to satisfy. Government and highly regulated entities may also have statutory, contractual, or other legal rights to terminate contracts with our partners for convenience, for lack of funding, or due to a default, and any such termination may adversely impact our future operating results. If we undertake to meet special standards or requirements and do not meet them, we could be subject to increased liability from our customers or regulators. Even if we do meet them, the additional costs associated with providing our services to government and highly regulated customers could harm our margins. Moreover, changes in the underlying regulatory conditions that affect these types of customers could harm our ability to efficiently provide our services to them and to grow or maintain our customer base.63Table of ContentsOur use of open source software could harm our ability to sell our services and subject us to possible litigation.Our products incorporate software licensed to us by third-party authors under open source licenses, and we expect to continue to incorporate open source software into other services in the future. We attempt to monitor our use of open source software in an effort to avoid subjecting our services to adverse licensing conditions. However, there can be no assurance that our efforts have been or will be successful. There is little or no legal precedent governing the interpretation of the terms of open source licenses, and therefore the potential impact of these terms on our business is uncertain and enforcement of these terms may result in unanticipated obligations regarding our services and technologies. For example, depending on which open source license governs open source software included within our services or technologies, we may be subjected to conditions requiring us to offer our services to users at no cost; make available the source code for modifications and derivative works based upon, incorporating or using the open source software; and license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of the particular open source license. Moreover, if an author or other third party that distributes such open source software were to allege that we had not complied with the conditions of one or more of these licenses, we could be required to incur significant legal costs defending ourselves against such allegations, be subject to significant damages or be enjoined from the distribution of our services.If we are unable to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, the accuracy and timeliness of our financial reporting may be adversely affected.The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires us, among other things, to assess and report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting annually and disclosure controls and procedures quarterly. Our independent registered public accounting firm may issue a report that is adverse in the event it is not satisfied with the level at which our controls are documented, designed or operating. Moreover, our testing, or the subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal material weaknesses or significant deficiencies. If material weaknesses are identified or we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, our reported financial results could be materially misstated or could subsequently require restatement, we could receive an adverse opinion regarding our internal control over financial reporting from our independent registered public accounting firm, we could be subject to investigations or sanctions by regulatory authorities and we could incur substantial expenses. New accounting principles, such as the new revenue recognition standards that became effective for us beginning January 1, 2018, require significant changes to our existing processes and controls. We may not be able to effectively implement system and process changes required for new standards on a timely basis. Any delays or failure to update our systems and processes could also lead to a material weakness or significant deficiency. Global economic conditions may harm our industry, business and results of operations.We operate globally and as a result our business and revenues are impacted by global macroeconomic conditions. Global financial developments seemingly unrelated to us or the software industry may harm us. From time to time, the United States and other key international economies have been impacted by geopolitical instability, high levels of bad debt globally, falling demand for a variety of goods and services, high levels of persistent unemployment and wage and income stagnation in some geographic markets, restricted credit, poor liquidity, reduced corporate profitability, volatility in credit, equity and foreign exchange markets, bankruptcies, international trade agreements, trade restrictions and overall uncertainty with respect to the economy. These conditions can arise suddenly and affect the rate of information technology spending and could adversely affect our customers’ ability or willingness to purchase our services, delay prospective customers’ purchasing decisions, reduce the value or duration of their subscriptions, or affect renewal rates, all of which could harm our operating results. In addition, the effects, if any, of global financial conditions on our business can be difficult to distinguish from the effects on our business from product, pricing, and other developments in the markets specific to our products and our relative competitive strength. If we make incorrect judgments about our business for this reason our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. 64Table of ContentsNatural disasters and other events beyond our control could harm our business.Natural disasters or other catastrophic events may cause damage or disruption to our operations, international commerce and the global economy, and thus could have a negative effect on us. Although we maintain crisis management and disaster response plans, such events could make it difficult or impossible for us to deliver our services to our customers, could decrease demand for our services, and could cause us to incur substantial expense. Our insurance may not be sufficient to cover losses or additional expense that we may sustain in connection with any natural disaster. The majority of our research and development activities, corporate offices, information technology systems, and other critical business operations are located near major seismic faults in California and Washington. However, we may not have enough available cash or be able to obtain financing at the time we are required to make repurchases of the 2022 Notes surrendered therefor or pay cash with respect to the 2022 Notes being converted.We and our subsidiaries may incur substantial additional debt in the future, subject to the restrictions contained in our future debt instruments, some of which may be secured debt. We are not restricted under the terms of the indenture governing the 2022 Notes from incurring additional debt, securing existing or future debt, recapitalizing our debt or taking a number of other actions that could have the effect of diminishing our ability to make payments on the 2022 Notes when due. Furthermore, the indenture for the 2022 Notes prohibits us from engaging in certain mergers or acquisitions unless, among other things, the surviving entity assumes our obligations under the 2022 Notes and the indenture. These and other provisions in the indenture could deter or prevent a third party from acquiring us even when the acquisition may be favorable to holders of the 2022 Notes.In addition, our ability to repurchase or to pay cash upon conversion of the 2022 Notes may be limited by law, regulatory authority or agreements governing our future indebtedness. Our failure to repurchase the 2022 Notes at a time when the repurchase is required by each indenture or to pay cash upon conversion of the 2022 Notes as required by the indenture would constitute a default. A default under the indenture or the fundamental change itself could also lead to a default under agreements governing our future indebtedness. Moreover, the occurrence of a fundamental change under the indenture could constitute an event of default under any such agreements. The Conversion Condition was met for the 2018 Notes during the three months ended June 30, 2017, September 30, 2017, December 31, 2017 and March 31, 2018. Accordingly, the 2018 Notes were convertible at the holders’ option during each of the three months ended September 30, 2017, December 31, 2017, March 31, 2018, and June 30, 2018. During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we paid cash to settle $413.2 million principal amount of the 2018 Notes and recorded a loss on early note conversions of $4.1 million. The loss on early note conversions for the three months ended September 30, 2018 was not material. As a result of the settlements, we also recorded a $6.4 million net reduction to additional paid-in capital, reflecting $554.4 million fair value adjustments to the conversion option settled, offset by a $548.0 million benefit from the convertible note hedge transaction entered in connection with the sale of the 2018 Notes. For conversion requests received on or after the July 1, 2018 Convertible Date for the 2018 Notes, the remaining principal amount of the 2018 Notes of $161.8 million was settled in cash on the maturity date, which was November 1, 2018.The Conversion Condition was met for the 2022 Notes during the three months ended June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2018. Therefore, the 2022 Notes became convertible at the holders’ option beginning on July 1, 2018 and continue to be convertible at the holders’ option through December 31, 2018. In addition, to the extent we receive conversion requests, we may also record a loss on early conversions of the 2022 Notes converted by noteholders based on the difference between the fair market value allocated to the liability component on the settlement date and the net carrying amount of the liability component and unamortized debt issuance on the settlement date. The 2018 Note Hedge offset the dilution and cash payments in excess of the principal amount of the converted 2018 Notes and expired upon the maturity date of the 2018 Notes, which was November 1. 2018. The warrant transactions could separately have a dilutive effect to the extent that the market price per share of our common stock exceeds the exercise price of the 2022 Warrants or 2018 Warrants, which is $203.40 and $107.46, respectively. Based on the stock price as of September 30, 2018, we expect to issue additional shares in the first half of 2019 upon the exercise of the 2018 Warrants. As the warrants will be net share settled, the number of shares we will issue depends on the stock price over a 60 trading day period beginning on the first expiration date of the 2018 Warrants, which is February 1, 2019. This activity could also cause or avoid an increase or a decrease in the market price of our common stock or the 2022 Notes, which could affect note holders’ ability to convert the 2022 Notes and, to the extent the activity occurs during any observation period related to a conversion of the 2022 Notes, it could affect the amount and value of the consideration that note holders will receive upon conversion of the 2022 Notes.The potential effect, if any, of these transactions and activities on the market price of our common stock or the 2022 Notes will depend in part on market conditions and cannot be ascertained at this time. In addition, we do not make any representation that the option counterparties will engage in these transactions or that these transactions, once commenced, will not be discontinued without notice.We are subject to counterparty risk with respect to the 2022 Note Hedge.The option counterparties are financial institutions, and we will be subject to the risk that any or all of them may default under the 2022 Note Hedge. Our exposure to the credit risk of the option counterparties will not be secured by any collateral. Recent global economic conditions have resulted in the actual or perceived failure or financial difficulties of many financial institutions. If an option counterparty becomes subject to insolvency proceedings, we will become an unsecured creditor in those proceedings, with a claim equal to our exposure at that time under our transactions with that option counterparty. Our exposure will depend on many factors but, generally, an increase in our exposure will be correlated to an increase in the market price and in the volatility of our common stock. In addition, upon a default by an option counterparty, we may suffer adverse tax consequences and more dilution than we currently anticipate with respect to our common stock. We can provide no assurances as to the financial stability or viability of the option counterparties. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common StockThe market price of our common stock has historically been and is likely to continue to be volatile and could subject us to litigation.The trading price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. In addition, the trading prices of the securities of technology companies in general have been highly volatile, and the volatility in market price and trading volume of securities is often unrelated or disproportionate to the financial performance of the companies issuing the securities. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources from our business. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition.We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock, so any returns will be limited to changes in the value of our common stock.We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently anticipate that we will retain future earnings for the development, operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate declaring or paying any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. In addition, our ability to pay cash dividends on our common stock may be prohibited or limited by the terms of any future debt financing arrangement. Any return to stockholders will therefore be limited to the increase, if any, of our stock price.67Table of ContentsProvisions in our charter documents, Delaware law, our 2022 Notes might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the market price of our common stock. Our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws contain provisions that could depress the market price of our common stock by acting to discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or changes in our management that the stockholders of our company may deem advantageous. Section 203 imposes certain restrictions on merger, business combinations and other transactions between us and holders of 15% or more of our common stock.Further, the fundamental change provisions of our 2022 Notes may delay or prevent a change in control of our company, because those provisions allow note holders to require us to repurchase such notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change.68Table of ContentsITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDSNone.ITEM 3. DEFAULTS UPON SENIOR SECURITIESNot applicable. ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURESNot applicable. ITEM 5. OTHER INFORMATIONNone.69Table of ContentsITEM 6. EXHIBITSEXHIBIT INDEXExhibitNumber Description of Document Incorporated by Reference FiledForm File No. Such certifications will not be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act. 70Table of ContentsSIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. SERVICENOW, INC.