See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” and “smaller reporting
company” and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Its principal products are hard disk drives, commonly referred to as disk drives, hard drives or HDDs. Hard disk drives are devices that store digitally encoded data on rapidly
rotating disks with magnetic surfaces. Disk drives continue to be the primary medium of mass data storage due to their performance attributes, high quality and cost effectiveness. Complementing existing data center storage architecture, solid-state
storage devices use integrated circuit assemblies as memory to store data, and most SSDs use NAND flash memory. The preparation of financial
statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying
notes. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. The methods, estimates and judgments the Company uses in applying its most critical accounting policies have a significant impact on the results the Company reports in its condensed
consolidated financial statements. The condensed consolidated financial statements reflect, in the opinion of management, all material adjustments necessary to present fairly the condensed consolidated financial position, results of operations,
comprehensive income, cash flows and shareholders’ equity for the periods presented. Such adjustments are of a normal and recurring nature. The Company believes that the disclosures included in the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, when read in conjunction with its consolidated financial statements as of
June 29, 2018, and the notes thereto, are adequate to make the information presented not misleading. The results of operations for the three
months ended September 28, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations to be expected for any subsequent interim period or for the Company’s fiscal year ending June 28, 2019. The Company operates and reports
financial results on a fiscal year of 52 or 53 weeks ending on the Friday closest to June 30. Both the three months ended September 28, 2018 and the three months ended September 29, 2017 consisted of 13 weeks. Fiscal year 2019,
which ends on June 28, 2019, and fiscal year 2018, which ended on June 29, 2018, are both comprised of 52 weeks. The fiscal quarters ended September 28, 2018, June 29, 2018, and September 29, 2017, are also referred to
herein as the “September 2018 quarter ”, the “June 2018 quarter” and the “September 2017 quarter”, respectively. Prior to fiscal year 2019, the revenue
recognition policy was based on ASC 605, Revenue Recognition. Revenue from sales of products is generally recognized upon transfer of control to customers in an amount that
reflects the consideration the Company expects to receive in exchange for those products, net of sales taxes. This typically occurs upon shipment from the Company. When applicable, the Company includes shipping charges billed to customers in Revenue
and includes the related shipping costs in Cost of revenue on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Company
records estimated variable consideration at the time of revenue recognition as a reduction to net revenue. Variable consideration generally consists of sales incentive programs, such as price protection and volume incentives aimed at increasing
customer demand. For OEM sales, rebates are typically established by estimating the most likely amount of consideration expected to be received based on an OEM customer’s volume of purchases from Seagate or other agreed upon rebate programs. For the distribution and retailing channel, these programs typically involve estimating the most likely amount of rebates related to a customer’s level of sales, order size, advertising or point of sale activity as well as the expected value of
price protection adjustments based on historical analysis and forecasted pricing environment. Marketing development program costs are accrued and recorded as a reduction to revenue at the same time that the related revenue is recognized. These costs are recorded as Marketing and administrative on the Company’s Condensed
Consolidated Statements of Operations. These ASUs amend a number of aspects of lease accounting, including requiring lessees to recognize operating leases with a term greater than
one year on their balance sheet as a right-of-use asset and corresponding lease liability, measured at the present value of the lease payments. The Company plans to
adopt this guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020. The Company is in the process of assessing the impact of these ASUs on its condensed consolidated financial statements. This ASU amends the requirement on the measurement and recognition of expected credit losses for financial assets held. The Company is required to adopt this guidance in the first
quarter of fiscal year 2021. Early adoption is permitted in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020. The Company is in the process of assessing the impact of this ASU on its condensed consolidated financial statements. The Company is required to adopt this guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020. Early adoption is
permitted. The Company is in the process of assessing the impact of this ASU on its condensed consolidated financial statements. This ASU aligns the accounting for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the
accounting for implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software. The Company is required to adopt the guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021. Early adoption is permitted. The
Company is in the process of assessing the impact of this ASU on its condensed consolidated financial statements. It also requires entities to disclose both quantitative and qualitative information that enable financial statements users to understand the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with
customers. The Company has completed the adoption and implemented policies, processes and controls to support the new standard’s measurement and disclosure requirements. The Company applied the ASC 606 using a modified retrospective transition approach to all contracts that were not completed as of June 29, 2018. Results for reporting periods beginning June 30, 2018 are presented under ASC 606, while prior period amounts were not adjusted and continue to be reported under the historical accounting standard. As a result of the adoption, the Company
identified a change in revenue recognition timing on its product sales made to certain retail customers and started to recognize revenue when the Company transfers control to the applicable customers rather than deferring recognition until those
customers sell the products. In addition, the Company established accruals for the variable consideration related to customer incentives on these arrangements. On the date of initial adoption, the Company removed the related deferred income on the
product sales made to these customers and recorded estimates of the accrual for variable consideration through a cumulative adjustment to accumulated deficit. The amendments in these ASUs require entities to measure all equity investments at fair value with changes recognized
through net income. Additionally, the amendments eliminate certain disclosure requirements related to financial instruments measured at amortized cost and add disclosures related to the measurement categories of financial assets and financial
liabilities. These ASUs became effective and were adopted by the Company in the September 2018 quarter. For equity investments without readily determinable fair value, the Company elected the measurement alternative for measurement of equity
investments, defined as cost, less impairments, if any, plus or minus changes resulting from observable price changes in orderly transactions for an identical or similar investment in the same issuer until the equity investments’ fair value
becomes readily determinable. The adoption of this guidance had no impact on the Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements and disclosures. The amendments in this ASU change the definition of a business to assist with evaluating when a set of transferred assets and activities is a business. The Company adopted the guidance in the September 2018 quarter. The adoption of this guidance had no impact on the Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements and disclosures. The amendments in this ASU provide guidance about which changes to the terms or conditions of a
share-based payment award require an entity to apply modification accounting. The Company adopted the guidance in the September 2018 quarter. The adoption of this guidance had no impact on its condensed consolidated financial statements and
disclosures. As of September 28, 2018, the Company had no material available-for-sale debt securities that had been in a continuous unrealized loss position for a period greater than 12 months. The Company determined no available-for-sale debt securities were other-than-temporarily impaired as of September 28, 2018. As of June 29, 2018, the Company had no material available-for-sale securities that had been in a continuous unrealized loss position for a period greater than 12 months. The Company determined no available-for-sale securities were other-than-temporarily impaired as of June 29, 2018. The investment, with a contractual maturity of six years starting from May 31, 2018, is accounted for as
a held-to-maturity debt security, carried at cost and adjusted for amortization of transaction costs into interest income. PIK income computed at the contractual rate is
accrued into Interest income in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations and added to the carrying value of the Investment in debt security on its Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. For the three months ended
September 28, 2018, the PIK income earned was $16 million. No impairment was identified as of September 28, 2018 and June 29, 2018. Please refer to Note 8 - Fair Value for more details. The term of the
Revolving Credit Facility is through January 15, 2020. The loans made under the Revolving Credit Facility will bear interest at a rate of LIBOR plus a variable margin that will be determined based on the corporate credit rating of the Company. The Company and certain of its material subsidiaries fully and unconditionally guarantee the Revolving Credit Facility. The Revolving Credit Facility is available for cash borrowings, subject to compliance with certain covenants and other customary
conditions to borrowing, and for the issuance of letters of credit up to a sub-limit of $75 million. The Company was in compliance with the modified covenants as of September 28, 2018 and expects to be in compliance for the next 12 months. As of September 28, 2018, no borrowings had been drawn or letters of credit utilized under the Revolving Credit Facility. The interest on the 2018 Notes is payable semi-annually on May 15 and November 15 of each year. The issuer under the 2018
Notes is Seagate HDD Cayman, and the obligations under the 2018 Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on a senior unsecured basis, by the Company. During the September 2017 quarter, the Company repurchased $22 million aggregate
principal amount of the 2018 Notes for cash at a premium to their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest. The Company recorded an immaterial loss on the repurchase during the three months ended September 29, 2017, which is included
in Other, net on the Compnay’s Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. There were no repurchases during the three months ended September 28, 2018. The remainder of the 2018 Notes were classified as Current portion of long-term
debt on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets at September 28, 2018 and June 29, 2018. The interest on the 2022 Notes is payable semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 of each year. The issuer under the 2022 Notes is Seagate HDD Cayman, and the obligations under the 2022 Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on a
senior unsecured basis, by the Company. The interest on the 2023 Notes is payable semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 of each year. The issuer under the 2023 Notes is Seagate HDD Cayman, and the obligations under the 2023 Notes are fully and
unconditionally guaranteed, on a senior unsecured basis, by the Company. The interest on the 2024 Notes is payable semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 of each year. The issuer under the 2024 Notes is Seagate HDD Cayman, and
the obligations under the 2024 Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on a senior unsecured basis, by the Company. The interest on the
2025 Notes is payable semi-annually on January 1 and July 1 of each year. The issuer under the 2025 Notes is Seagate HDD Cayman, and the obligations under the 2025 Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on a senior unsecured
basis, by the Company. The interest on the Notes is payable semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 of each year. The issuer under the 2027 Notes is Seagate HDD Cayman, and the obligations under the 2027 Notes are fully and unconditionally
guaranteed, on a senior unsecured basis, by the Company. The interest on the 2034 Notes is payable semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 of each year. The issuer under the 2034 Notes is Seagate HDD Cayman, and the obligations under the 2034 Notes
are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on a senior unsecured basis, by the Company. During the three months ended September 28, 2018, the Company’s unrecognized tax benefits excluding interest and penalties increased by
approximately $2 million to $62 million. The unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would impact the effective tax rate were $62 million at September 28, 2018, subject to certain future valuation allowance reversals. During the twelve months beginning September 29, 2018, the Company expects that its unrecognized tax benefits could be reduced by approximately $19 million, primarily as a result of the expiration of certain statutes of limitation. The Company’s income tax provision of $7 million in the three months ended September 29, 2017 included approximately $1 million of
net discrete tax expense. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Act was enacted into law in the United States. The Tax Act significantly revises U.S. corporate income tax law by,
among other things, lowering U.S. corporate income tax rates from 35% to 21%, implementing a territorial tax system, and imposing a one-time transition tax on deemed repatriated earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries. For fiscal year 2019, the Company has included these effects of the Tax Act in its financial statements and concluded the impact will not be material. 5. Intangibles are amortized on a straight-line basis over the respective estimated useful lives of the assets. Amortization is charged to Operating expenses in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Company’s significant
restructuring plans are described below. All restructuring charges are reported in Restructuring and other, net on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. The December 2017 Plan included reducing the Company’s global headcount by approximately 500 employees. The December 2017 Plan was substantially completed by the end of fiscal year 2018. The July 2017 Plan included reducing the Company’s global headcount by approximately 600 employees. The July 2017 Plan was substantially completed during fiscal year 2018. The Company closed its design center in Korea, resulting in the reduction of the Company’s headcount by approximately 300 employees. The March 2017 Plan was substantially completed by the end
of fiscal year 2017. The July 2016 Plan included reducing worldwide headcount by approximately 6,500 employees. The July 2016 Plan was substantially completed during
fiscal year 2018. From time to time, the Company enters into cash flow hedges in the form of foreign currency forward exchange contracts in order to manage the foreign currency exchange rate risk on forecasted expenses and investments denominated in
foreign currencies. The Company’s accounting policies for these instruments are based on whether the instruments are classified as designated or non-designated hedging instruments. The
Company records all derivatives in its Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value. The changes in the fair value of highly effective designated cash flow hedges are recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive loss until the hedged item is
recognized in earnings. The amount of net unrealized gain on cash flow
hedges was $2 million as of September 28, 2018 and less than $1 million as of June 29, 2018. The
Company de-designates its cash flow hedges when the forecasted hedged transactions affect earnings or it is probable the forecasted hedged transactions will not occur in the initially identified time
period. At such time, the associated gains and losses deferred in Accumulated other comprehensive loss on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets are reclassified immediately into earnings and any subsequent changes in the fair
value of such derivative instruments are immediately reflected in earnings. The Company recognized a net gain of $1 million in Other expense, net related to the loss of hedge designation on discontinued cash flow hedges during the three months
ended September 28, 2018. The Company did not recognize any net gains or losses related to the loss of hedge designation on discontinued cash flow hedges during the three months ended September 29, 2017. Other derivatives not designated as hedging instruments consist of foreign currency forward exchange contracts that the Company uses to hedge the foreign
currency exposure on the investment in debt security and forecasted expenditures denominated in currency other than the U.S. dollar. The Company recognizes gains and losses on these contracts, as well as the related costs in Other, net on its
Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations along with foreign currency gains and losses on investment in debt security, and deferred gains of derivatives in Other current assets on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. The following tables show the total notional value of the Company’s outstanding foreign currency forward exchange contracts as of September 28,
2018 and June 29, 2018. All these foreign currency forward exchange contracts mature within 12 months. The Company pays a floating rate, based on LIBOR plus an interest rate spread, on the notional amount of the TRS. The TRS is designed to
substantially offset changes in the SDCP liability due to changes in the value of the investment options made by employees. As of September 28, 2018, the notional investments underlying the TRS amounted to $120 million. The contract term
of the TRS is through January 2019 and is settled on a monthly basis, therefore limiting counterparty performance risk. The Company did not designate the TRS as a hedge. Rather, the Company records all changes in the fair value of the TRS to
earnings to offset the market value changes of the SDCP liabilities. When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities required to be
recorded at fair value, the Company considers the principal or most advantageous market in which it would transact and it considers assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability. A financial
instrument’s categorization within the fair value hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. The Company considers an active market to be one in which transactions for the asset or liability occur with sufficient frequency and volume to provide
pricing information on an ongoing basis, and views an inactive market as one in which there are few transactions for the asset or liability, the prices are not current, or price quotations vary substantially either over time or among market
makers. Where appropriate the Company’s or the counterparty’s non-performance risk is considered in determining the fair values of liabilities and assets, respectively. The Company classifies items in Level 2 if the financial asset or liability is valued using observable inputs. The Company uses observable inputs including quoted prices in active markets for similar assets or liabilities. These debt investments are priced using observable inputs and valuation models which vary by asset class. For the cash equivalents and short-term investments in the
Company’s portfolio, multiple pricing sources are generally available. The pricing service uses inputs from multiple industry standard data providers or other third party sources and various methodologies, such as weighting and models, to
determine the appropriate price at the measurement date. The Company corroborates the prices obtained from the pricing service against other independent sources and, as of September 28, 2018, has not found it necessary to make any adjustments
to the prices obtained. The Company’s derivative financial instruments are also classified within Level 2. The Company’s derivative financial instruments consist of foreign currency forward exchange contracts and the TRS. The Company
recognizes derivative financial instruments in its condensed consolidated financial statements at fair value. The Company determines the fair value of these instruments by considering the estimated amount it would pay or receive to terminate these
agreements at the reporting date. As of September 28, 2018 and June 29, 2018, the Company had no Level 3 assets or
liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis. These strategic
investments primarily include cost basis investments representing those where the Company does not have the ability to exercise significant influence as well as equity method investments representing those where the Company does have the ability to
exercise significant influence but does not have control. These investments are included in Other assets, net in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, and are periodically analyzed to determine whether or not there are indicators
of impairment. Prior to fiscal year 2019, the Company’s strategic investments in privately-held companies without readily determinable fair
values were accounted for under the cost method and were recorded at historical cost at the time of investment, with adjustments to the balance only in the event of impairment. Effective June 30, 2018, the Company adopted ASU 2016-01, Financial Instruments, which changed the way the Company accounts for equity investments, excluding investments that qualify for the equity method of accounting. The Company’s equity investments
in privately-held companies without readily determinable fair values are now measured using the measurement alternative, defined by ASC 321, Investments - Equity Securities, as cost, less impairments, and adjusted up or down based on
observable price changes in orderly transactions for identical or similar investments of the same issuer. As of September 28, 2018 and June 29, 2018, the carrying value of the Company’s strategic
investments were $107 million and $118 million, respectively. For the three months ended September 28, 2018 and September 29, 2017, the Company did not have any equity investments accounted for under the cost method that were
other-than-temporarily impaired and did not record any impairment charges. There were no upward or downward adjustments on equity investments as a result of adoption of measurement alternative during the September 2018 quarter. The respective property to be sold met the criteria to be classified as held for sale at the end of fiscal year 2017. During the September
2018 quarter, the Company accepted an offer to sell the property to a third party. The sale is expected to be completed by the end of fiscal year 2019, subject to government approval and customary closing conditions. No impairment was identified for
the three months ended September 28, 2018 and September 29, 2017. This debt security has a
maturity date of six years starting from May 31, 2018 and is classified as Investment in debt security on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. The debt security is recorded at amortized cost and its fair value approximated
the carrying value at June 29, 2018. As of September 28, 2018, the fair value of this investment was $1,289 million with an unrealized gain of $30 million on the carrying value of $1,259 million. The fair value was
determined utilizing Level 2 inputs such as discount rates and yield terms of similar types of securities issued by comparable companies. The estimated fair value of the
Company’s debt is derived using the closing price of the same debt instruments as of the date of valuation, which takes into account the yield curve, interest rates and other observable inputs. Accordingly, these fair value measurements
are categorized as Level 2. Upon any liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Company, after required payments are made to holders of preferred shares, any remaining assets of the Company will be
distributed ratably to holders of the preferred and ordinary shares. Holders of shares are entitled to one vote per share on all matters upon which the ordinary shares are entitled to vote, including the election of directors. Preferred shares – The Company may issue preferred shares in one or more series, up to the authorized amount, without shareholder approval. The Board of Directors is authorized to establish from time to time the number of shares to be included in each series, and to fix the rights, preferences and privileges of the shares of each wholly unissued series and any of its qualifications,
limitations or restrictions. The Board of Directors can also increase or decrease the number of shares of a series, but not below the number of shares of that series then outstanding, without any further vote or action by the shareholders. The Board of Directors may authorize the issuance of preferred shares with voting or conversion rights that could harm the voting power or other rights
of the holders of the ordinary shares. The issuance of preferred shares, while providing flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could, among other things, have the effect of delaying, deferring or
preventing a change in control of the Company and might harm the market price of its ordinary shares and the voting and other rights of the holders of ordinary shares. As of September 28, 2018, $0.7 billion remained available
for repurchase under the existing repurchase authorization limit. 12. In addition, the Revised Indemnification Agreement provides that Seagate-Cayman will advance expenses incurred by an Indemnitee in connection with enforcement of the Revised
Indemnification Agreement or with the investigation, settlement or appeal of any action or proceeding against him or her as to which he or she could be indemnified. Seagate-Cayman entered into Deeds of Indemnity with certain Deed Indemnitees effective as of July 3, 2010 and continues to enter into Deeds
of Indemnity with additional Deed Indemnitees from time to time. The nature of these indemnification obligations prevents the Company from making a
reasonable estimate of the maximum potential amount it could be required to pay on behalf of its officers and directors. Historically, the Company has not made any significant indemnification payments under such agreements and no amount has been
accrued in the Company’s consolidated financial statements with respect to these indemnification obligations. These guarantees generally require the Company to compensate the other party for certain damages and costs incurred as a result of third party intellectual property claims arising from these
transactions. The nature of the intellectual property indemnification obligations prevents the Company from making a reasonable estimate of the maximum potential amount it could be required to pay to its customers and suppliers. Historically, the
Company has not made any significant indemnification payments under such agreements and no amount has been accrued in the Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements with respect to these indemnification obligations. The Company generally warrants its products for a period of 1 to
5 years. The Company uses estimated repair or replacement costs and uses statistical modeling to estimate product return rates in order to determine its warranty obligation. Diluted earnings per share is computed by dividing income available to shareholders by the weighted-average number of shares outstanding during the period and the number of additional shares that would have been outstanding if the potentially
dilutive securities had been issued. The dilutive effect of potentially dilutive securities is reflected in diluted earnings per share by application of the treasury stock method. Under the treasury stock method, an increase in fair market value of the Company’s share price can
result in a greater dilutive effect from potentially dilutive securities. 14. In the event that an unfavorable outcome is determined to be probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated, the
Company establishes an accrual for the litigation, claim or assessment. In addition, in the event an unfavorable outcome is determined to be less than probable, but reasonably possible, the Company will disclose an estimate of the possible loss or
range of such loss; however, when a reasonable estimate cannot be made, the Company will provide disclosure to that effect. Litigation is inherently uncertain and may result in adverse rulings or decisions. Additionally, the Company may enter into
settlements or be subject to judgments that may, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on its results of operations. Accordingly, actual results could differ materially. On July 13, 2000, Convolve and MIT filed suit against Compaq Computer Corporation and Seagate Technology LLC in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York, alleging
infringement of U.S. Patent No. On January 16,
2002, Convolve filed an amended complaint, alleging defendants were infringing U.S. Patent No. The district court ruled in 2010 that the ‘267 patent was out of the case. On August 16, 2011, the district court granted in part and denied in part the Company’s motion for summary judgment. On July 11, 2014, the district court granted the Company’s further summary judgment motion regarding the ‘473 patent. In view of the rulings made by the district court and the Court of Appeals and the uncertainty regarding the amount of damages, if any, that could be awarded
Convolve in this matter, the Company does not believe that it is currently possible to determine a reasonable estimate of the possible range of loss related to this matter. 7,128,988, “Magnetic Material Structures,
Devices and Methods.” The Company believes the claims asserted in the complaint are without merit and intends to vigorously defend this case. The court issued its claim construction ruling on October 18, 2017. No trial date has been
set. While the possible range of loss for this matter remains uncertain, the Company estimates the amount of loss to be immaterial to the financial statements. Some of the Company’s operations require environmental permits and controls to prevent and reduce air and water pollution, and these permits are subject to modification, renewal and revocation by issuing authorities. The Company has established environmental management systems and continually updates its environmental policies and standard operating procedures for its
operations worldwide. The Company believes that its operations are in material compliance with applicable environmental laws, regulations and permits. The Company budgets for operating and capital costs on an ongoing basis to comply with
environmental laws. If additional or more stringent requirements are imposed on the Company in the future, it could incur additional operating costs and capital expenditures. The Company has been identified as a responsible or potentially responsible party at several sites. At each of these sites, the
Company has an assigned portion of the financial liability based on the type and amount of hazardous substances disposed of by each party at the site and the number of financially viable parties. The Company has fulfilled its responsibilities at
some of these sites and remains involved in only a few at this time. While the Company’s ultimate costs in connection with these sites is
difficult to predict with complete accuracy, based on its current estimates of cleanup costs and its expected allocation of these costs, the Company does not expect costs in connection with these sites to be material. Similar legislation has been or may be enacted in other
jurisdictions, including in the United States, Canada, Mexico, Taiwan, China, Japan and others. If the Company or its suppliers fails to comply with the substance restrictions, recycle requirements or other environmental requirements as they are enacted worldwide, it could have a materially
adverse effect on the Company’s business. Although occasional adverse decisions or settlements may occur, the Company believes that the final disposition of such
matters will not have a material adverse effect on its financial position or results of operations. 15. We operate and
report financial results on a fiscal year of 52 or 53 weeks ending on the Friday closest to June 30. The September 2018, June 2018 and September 2017 quarters were all 13 weeks. You should read this discussion in conjunction with financial information and related notes included elsewhere in this report. Unless the context
indicates otherwise, as used herein, the terms “we,” “us,” “Seagate,” the “Company” and “our” refer to Seagate Technology plc, an Irish public limited company, and its subsidiaries. References to
“$” are to United States dollars. These statements identify prospective information and may include words such as “expects,”
“intends,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “predicts,” “projects,” “may,” “will,” or negative of these words, variations of these words and
comparable terminology. These forward-looking statements are based on information available to the Company as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and are based on management’s
current views and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are conditioned upon and also involve a number of known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially
from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements. Such risks, uncertainties and other factors may be beyond our control and may pose a risk to our operating and financial condition. Risk Factors” of the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
June 29, 2018, which we encourage you to carefully read. These forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any date subsequent to the date on which they were made and we undertake no obligation to
update forward-looking statements to reflect new information or future events or circumstances after the date they were made. Overview of our business. Highlights of events in the September 2018 quarter that impacted our
financial position. An analysis of our financial results comparing the September 2018 quarter to the June
2018 quarter and the September 2017 quarter. An analysis of changes in our balance sheet and cash flows, and discussion of
our financial condition including the credit quality of our investment portfolio and potential sources of liquidity. Accounting policies and estimates that we believe are important to understanding
the assumptions and judgments incorporated in our reported financial results. Our principal products are hard disk drives, commonly referred to as disk drives, hard
drives or HDDs. Hard disk drives are devices that store digitally encoded data on rapidly rotating disks with magnetic surfaces. Disk drives continue to be the primary
medium of mass data storage due to their performance attributes, high quality and cost effectiveness. Complementing existing data center storage architecture, solid-state storage devices use integrated circuit assemblies as memory to store data, and
most SSDs use NAND flash memory. We generated revenue of approximately $3.0 billion, gross margin of 31% and our operating cash flow was $587 million. We paid $181 million in dividends and repurchased
3 million of our ordinary shares for $150 million. Revenue in the September 2018 quarter increased by $359 million from the September 2017 quarter as a result of an increase in exabytes shipped
driven primarily by higher demand for our enterprise and client markets, partially offset by price erosion. We maintain various sales programs such
as channel rebates and price masking. Sales programs were approximately 11%, 12% and 11% of gross drive revenue for the September 2018 quarter, June 2018 quarter and September 2017 quarter, respectively. Adjustments to revenues due to under or over
accruals for sales programs related to revenues reported in prior quarterly periods were less than 1% of quarterly gross revenue in all periods presented. Compared to the September 2017 quarter, gross margin as a percentage of revenue increased by 300 basis points primarily driven by favorable
product mix and improved factory utilization as a result of higher demand for our enterprise and client markets, partially offset by a decline in prices for NAND flash memory and general price erosion. In the September 2018 quarter, total warranty cost was 0.7% of revenue and included a favorable change in estimates of prior warranty accruals of 0.5% of
revenue due to improvements in return rates on newer generation products. Warranty cost related to new shipments was 1.2%, 1.3% and 1.3% of revenue for the September 2018, June 2018 and September 2017 quarters, respectively. Product development expense for the September 2018 quarter remained relatively
flat compared to the June 2018 quarter and the September 2017 quarter. Marketing and administrative expense. Marketing and
administrative expense for the September 2018 quarter decreased by $25 million from the June 2018 quarter primarily due to a $13 million decrease in variable compensation and share-based compensation expenses, a $5 million decrease in
salaries and employee benefits as a result of the restructuring of our workforce in prior periods and a $7 million decrease in other general expenses due to related operational efficiencies. Compared to the September 2017 quarter, Marketing and administrative expense decreased by $30 million primarily due to a $13 million decrease
in salaries and employee benefits as a result of the restructuring of our workforce in prior periods, a $9 million decrease in other general expenses due to related operational efficiencies and an $8 million decrease in variable
compensation and share-based compensation expenses. Amortization of intangibles. Amortization of intangibles for the September 2018
quarter remained flat compared to the June 2018 quarter. Amortization of intangibles for the September 2018 quarter decreased by $16 million from the September 2017 quarter due to certain intangible assets reaching the end of their useful life. Restructuring and other, net. Restructuring and other, net for the September 2018 quarter was comprised of charges primarily related to a
voluntary early exit program. Restructuring and other, net for the June 2018 quarter included a gain of $24 million from the sale of certain
properties previously classified as held for sale, offset by restructuring charges announced in prior periods. Restructuring and other, net for the
September 2017 quarter was comprised of restructuring charges to reduce our global workforce by 600 employees. Compared to the September 2017 quarter, Other expense, net decreased by $32 million primarily due to a $16 million net increase in gains due to
favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates and a $16 million increase in interest income on investment in a debt security. During the three months ended September 28, 2018 our unrecognized tax benefits excluding interest and penalties increased by approximately
$2 million to $62 million. The unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would impact the effective tax rate were $62 million at September 28, 2018, subject to certain future valuation allowance reversals. During the 12
months beginning September 29, 2018, we expect that our unrecognized tax benefits could be reduced by approximately $19 million, primarily as a result of the expiration of certain statutes of limitation. Our income tax provision of $7 million recorded for the September 2017 quarter included approximately $1 million of net discrete tax expense. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Act was enacted into law in the United States. The Tax Act significantly revises U.S. corporate income tax law by,
among other things, lowering U.S. corporate income tax rates from 35% to 21%, implementing a territorial tax system, and imposing a one-time transition tax on deemed repatriated earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries. For fiscal year 2019, we have included these effects of the Tax Act in our financial statements and have concluded the impact will not be material. Our
cash and cash equivalents are maintained in investments with remaining maturities of 90 days or less at the time of purchase. Our short-term investments consist primarily of money market funds, time deposits and certificates of deposit. The
principal objectives of our investment policy are the preservation of principal and maintenance of liquidity. We believe our cash equivalents and short-term investments are liquid and accessible. However, we believe our sources of cash have been and will continue to be sufficient to meet our cash needs for the next 12 months. We are not aware of any
downgrades, losses or other significant deterioration in the fair value of our cash equivalents or short-term investments and we do not believe the fair value of our short-term investments has significantly changed from the values reported as of
September 28, 2018. As of September 28,
2018, no borrowings had been drawn under the revolving credit facility or had been utilized for letters of credit issued under this credit facility. The line of credit is available for borrowings, subject to compliance with financial covenants and
other customary conditions to borrowing. The term of the revolving credit facility is through January 15, 2020. We were in
compliance with the modified covenants as of September 28, 2018 and expect to be in compliance for the next 12 months. Our liquidity
requirements are primarily to meet our working capital, product development and capital expenditure needs, to fund scheduled payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness, and to fund our quarterly dividend and any future strategic
investments. Our ability to fund these requirements will depend on our future cash flows, which are determined by future operating performance, and therefore, subject to prevailing global macroeconomic conditions and financial, business and other
factors, some of which are beyond our control. For fiscal year 2019, we expect capital expenditures to remain below our long-term targeted range of
6% to 8% of revenue. From time to time we may repurchase any of our outstanding notes in open market or privately negotiated purchases or otherwise,
or we may repurchase outstanding notes pursuant to the terms of the applicable indenture. Dividends declared in the September 2018 quarter of
$180 million were subsequently paid on October 3, 2018. The Company’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.63 per share on November 2, 2018, which is payable on January 2, 2019 to shareholders of
record at the close of business on December 19, 2018. From time to time we may repurchase any of our outstanding ordinary shares through
private, open market, tender offers broker-assisted purchases or other means. As of September 28, 2018, $0.7 billion remained available for repurchase under our existing repurchase authorization limit. All repurchases are effected as
redemptions in accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association. On October 29, 2018, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of an additional $2.3 billion of our outstanding ordinary shares. The preparation of such statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period
and the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements. Our estimates are based on historical experience and other assumptions that we consider to be appropriate in the circumstances. However, actual future
results may vary from our estimates. Other than as described in Note 1. “Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting
Policies” in the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements, there have been no other material changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates. Refer to “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations” contained in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 29, 2018, as filed with the SEC on
August 3, 2018, for a discussion of our critical accounting policies and estimates. Financial Statements—Note 1. Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies”
for information regarding the effect of new accounting pronouncements on our financial statements. A portion of these risks may be hedged, but fluctuations could impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Interest Rate
Risk. As of September 28, 2018, we had no impairment for our investment in debt security and we had no available-for-sale debt securities that
had been in a continuous unrealized loss position for a period greater than 12 months. We determined no available-for-sale debt securities were
other-than-temporarily impaired as of September 28, 2018. We have fixed rate debt obligations. We enter into debt obligations for general
corporate purposes including capital expenditures and working capital needs. The table below presents principal amounts and related weighted-average
interest rates by year of maturity for our investment portfolio and debt obligations as of September 28, 2018. From time to time, we may enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts
to manage exposure related to certain foreign currency commitments and anticipated foreign currency denominated expenditures. Our policy prohibits us from entering into derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. At this
time, we have not identified any material exposure associated with the potential changes related to the British vote to exit the European Union. We
hedge portions of our foreign currency denominated balance sheet positions with foreign currency forward exchange contracts to reduce the risk that our earnings will be adversely affected by changes in currency exchange rates. We did not designate these contracts as hedges under ASC 815, Derivatives and Hedging and, therefore, the change
in fair value of these contracts is recognized in earnings in the same period as the gains and losses from the remeasurement of the assets and liabilities. All foreign currency forward exchange contracts discussed above mature within 12 months. We evaluate hedging effectiveness prospectively and retrospectively. As of September 29, 2018, $22 million was de-designated and included in contracts not designated as hedges. We did not have any material net gains or losses
recognized in Other expense, net for cash flow hedges due to hedge ineffectiveness or discontinued cash flow hedges during the three months ended September 28, 2018. Other Market Risks. We have exposure to counterparty credit downgrades in the form of credit risk related to our foreign currency forward exchange
contracts and our fixed income portfolio. We monitor and limit our credit exposure for our foreign currency forward exchange contracts by performing ongoing credit evaluations. We also manage the notional amount of contracts entered into with any
one counterparty, and we maintain limits on maximum tenor of contracts based on the credit rating of the financial institution. Additionally, the investment portfolio is diversified and structured to minimize credit risk. Changes in our corporate issuer credit ratings have minimal impact on our near term financial results, but downgrades may negatively impact our future
ability to raise capital, increase the cost of such capital and our ability to execute transactions with various counterparties. We have an
investment in debt security of $1.3 billion carried at amortized cost. We review our debt security for impairment when events and circumstances indicate a decline in fair value of such asset below carrying value is other-than-temporary. We pay a floating rate, based on LIBOR
plus an interest rate spread, on the notional amount of the TRS. The TRS is designed to substantially offset changes in the SDCP liability due to changes in the value of the investment options made by employees. See
“Part I, Item 1. Financial Statements—Note 7. Derivative Financial Instruments” of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. ITEM 4. Based on the evaluation, our management, including our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures are effective as of September 28, 2018. In connection with our adoption of the new revenue recognition standard in the September 2018 quarter, we implemented internal controls to ensure that
the necessary revenue contracts, policies and process flows were reviewed to identify the impact of adoption. There were no significant changes to our internal control over financial reporting due to the adoption of the new revenue recognition
standard. During the quarter ended September 28, 2018, there were no other changes in our internal control over financial reporting that materially affected, or were reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial
reporting. Financial Statements—Note 14. Legal, Environmental and Other
Contingencies” of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. ITEM 1A. In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider
the risk factors discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K as they could materially affect our business, financial condition and future results. The Risk Factors are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be
immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. ITEM 2. As of September 28, 2018, $0.7 billion remained available for
repurchase under the existing repurchase authorization limit. There is no expiration date on this authorization. On October 29, 2018, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of an additional $2.3 billion of our outstanding
ordinary shares. ITEM 3. ITEM 4. ITEM 5.