See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” and “emerging
growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Its principal
products are hard disk drives, commonly referred to as disk drives, hard drives or HDDs. Hard disk drives are devices that store digitally encoded data on
rapidly rotating disks with magnetic surfaces. Disk drives continue to be the primary medium of mass data storage due to their performance attributes, high quality and cost effectiveness. Complementing existing data center storage architecture,
solid-state storage devices use integrated circuit assemblies as memory to store data with most SSDs using NAND-based flash memory. In addition to HDDs and SSDs, SSHDs combine the features of SSDs and HDDs in the same unit, containing a large hard
disk drive and an SSD cache to improve performance of frequently accessed data. The
Company’s cloud systems and solutions extend innovation from the device into the information infrastructure, onsite and in the cloud. The preparation of financial statements in accordance with
U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could
differ materially from those estimates. The methods, estimates and judgments the Company uses in applying its most critical accounting policies have a significant impact on the results the Company reports in its condensed consolidated financial
statements. The condensed consolidated financial statements reflect, in the opinion of management, all material adjustments necessary to present fairly the condensed consolidated financial position, results of operations, comprehensive income, cash
flows and shareholders’ equity for the periods presented. Such adjustments are of a normal and recurring nature. Certain prior period amounts in the condensed consolidated financial statements and notes to the condensed consolidated financial
statements have been reclassified to conform to the current period’s presentation. The Company believes that the disclosures included in the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, when read in conjunction with its Consolidated Financial Statements as of June 30, 2017, and the notes
thereto, are adequate to make the information presented not misleading. The results of operations for the three and six months ended
December 29, 2017, are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations to be expected for any subsequent interim period in the Company’s fiscal year ending June 29, 2018. The Company operates and reports financial results on a
fiscal year of 52 or 53 weeks ending on the Friday closest to June 30. Both the three and six months ended December 29, 2017 and the three and six months ended December 30, 2016 consisted of 13 weeks and 26 weeks, respectively. Fiscal year 2018 will be comprised of 52 weeks and will end on June 29, 2018. The fiscal quarters ended December 29, 2017, September 29, 2017, and December 30, 2016, are also referred to herein as the “December 2017
quarter”, the “September 2017 quarter”, and the “December 2016 quarter”, respectively. Please refer to Note 1 of “Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data” contained in Part II, Item 8 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017, as filed with the SEC on
August 4, 2017 for a discussion of the Company’s other significant accounting policies. ASC Topic 606 outlines a single
comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers and supersedes most current revenue recognition guidance, including industry-specific guidance. It also requires entities to disclose both
quantitative and qualitative information that enable financial statements users to understand the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. The Company is required to adopt the guidance
in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. Based on its assessment, the Company plans to adopt the new revenue standard in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, utilizing the modified retrospective method of transition. These changes are not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s condensed consolidated
financial statements. The amendments in this ASU require entities to measure all
investments in equity securities at fair value with changes recognized through net income. This requirement does not apply to investments that qualify for the equity method of accounting, to those that result in consolidation of the investee, or for
which the entity meets a practicability exception to fair value measurement. Additionally, the amendments eliminate certain disclosure requirements related to financial instruments measured at amortized cost and add disclosures related to the
measurement categories of financial assets and financial liabilities. The Company is required to adopt the guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. Early adoption is permitted for only certain portions of the ASU. The amount of the impact to equity investments will depend on any Price Changes observed after adoption in the first quarter of fiscal
2019. The ASU amends a number of aspects of lease accounting, including requiring lessees to recognize operating leases with a term greater than one year on their balance sheet as a right-of-use asset and corresponding lease liability, measured at the present value of the lease payments. The Company is required to adopt the guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2020. Early
adoption is permitted. The Company is in the process of assessing the impact of this ASU on its condensed consolidated financial statements. The amendments in this ASU change the definition of a business to assist with evaluating when a set of transferred assets and activities is a business. The Company plans to adopt the guidance in the first
quarter of fiscal 2019. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is in the process of assessing the impact of this ASU on its condensed consolidated financial statements. The amendments in this ASU provide guidance about which changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award require an entity to apply modification accounting. The Company plans to adopt the guidance in
the first quarter of fiscal 2019. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is in the process of assessing the impact of this ASU on its condensed consolidated financial statements. The amendments in this ASU require inventory measurement at the lower of cost and net realizable value. This ASU became effective and was adopted by the Company in the September 2017 quarter on a
prospective basis. The adoption of this guidance had no material impact on the Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements and disclosures. The amendments in this ASU are intended to simplify several areas of accounting for share-based compensation arrangements, including the income tax consequences,
classification on the consolidated statement of cash flows and treatment of forfeitures. This ASU became effective and was adopted by the Company in the September 2017 quarter. Upon adoption, excess tax benefits or deficiencies from share-based
award activity are reflected in the condensed consolidated statements of operations as a component of the provision for income taxes, whereas they previously were recognized in the Shareholder’s equity in the condensed consolidated balance
sheets. The Company also elected to continue to account for share-based compensation expense net of estimated forfeitures. The adoption of this ASU resulted in an increase in deferred tax assets relating to net operating losses of approximately
$0.6 billion, offset by an equivalent increase in the valuation allowance with no impact to retained earnings. The adoption of this guidance had no material impact on the Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements and
disclosures. The amendments in this ASU require the recognition of the income tax consequences for intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory when the transfer
occurs. The Company elected to adopt this ASU in the September 2017 quarter on a modified retrospective basis with no material impact on the Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements and disclosures. 2. As of December 29, 2017, the Company had no
material available-for-sale securities that had been in a continuous unrealized loss position for a period greater than 12 months. The Company determined that no available-for-sale securities were other-than-temporarily impaired as of December 29, 2017. As of June 30, 2017, the Company had no material available-for-sale securities that had been in a continuous unrealized loss position for a period greater than 12 months. The Company determined no available-for-sale securities were other-than-temporarily impaired as of June 30, 2017. The loans made under the Revolving Credit
Facility will bear interest at a rate of LIBOR plus a variable margin that will be determined based on the corporate credit rating of the Company. The Company and certain of its material subsidiaries fully and unconditionally guarantee the Revolving
Credit Facility. The Revolving Credit Facility is available for cash borrowings, subject to compliance with certain covenants and other customary conditions to borrowing, and for the issuance of letters of credit up to a sub-limit of $75 million. On April 27, 2016, the Revolving Credit Agreement was amended in order to increase the
allowable net leverage ratio to allow for higher net leverage levels. The Company was in compliance with the modified covenants as of December 29, 2017 and expects to be in compliance for the next 12 months. As of December 29, 2017, no borrowings had been drawn or letters of credit utilized under the Revolving Credit Facility. The interest on the 2018 Notes is payable semi-annually on May 15 and November 15 of each year. The issuer under the 2018 Notes is Seagate HDD Cayman, and the obligations under the 2018 Notes are fully and
unconditionally guaranteed, on a senior unsecured basis, by the Company. During the three and six months ended December 29, 2017, the Company repurchased $128 million and $150 million aggregate principal amount of the 2018 Notes,
respectively, for cash at a premium to their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest. The Company recorded a loss of approximately $2 million on repurchases during the three and six months ended December 29, 2017 which is
included in Other, net on the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. The remainder of the 2018 Notes are classified as Current portion of long-term debt on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 29, 2017. The interest on the 2022 Notes is payable semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 of each year. The issuer under the 2022 Notes is Seagate HDD Cayman, and the obligations under the 2022 Notes are fully and
unconditionally guaranteed, on a senior unsecured basis, by the Company. The interest on the 2023 Notes is payable semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 of each year. The issuer under the 2023 Notes is Seagate HDD Cayman, and the obligations
under the 2023 Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on a senior unsecured basis, by the Company. The interest on the 2024 Notes is payable semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 of each year. The issuer under the 2024 Notes is Seagate HDD Cayman, and the obligations under the 2024 Notes are fully and
unconditionally guaranteed, on a senior unsecured basis, by the Company. The interest on the 2025 Notes is payable semi-annually on January 1 and July 1 of each year. The issuer under the 2025 Notes is Seagate HDD Cayman, and the obligations
under the 2025 Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on a senior unsecured basis, by the Company. The
interest on the Notes is payable semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 of each year. The issuer under the 2027 Notes is Seagate HDD Cayman, and the obligations under the 2027 Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on a senior
unsecured basis, by the Company. The interest on the 2034 Notes is payable semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 of each year. The issuer under the 2034 Notes is Seagate HDD Cayman, and the obligations under the 2034 Notes are fully and
unconditionally guaranteed, on a senior unsecured basis, by the Company. The income tax provision for the three and six months ended December 29, 2017 included approximately $197 million of net discrete tax expense,
primarily associated with the revaluation of U.S. deferred tax assets as a result of the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act on December 22, 2017, partially offset by the recognition of previously unrecognized tax benefits associated with
the expiration of certain statutes of limitation. During the six months ended December 29, 2017, the Company’s unrecognized
tax benefits excluding interest and penalties increased by approximately $1 million to $75 million. The unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would impact the effective tax rate were $75 million at December 29, 2017,
subject to certain future changes in valuation allowance. During the 12 months beginning December 30, 2017, the Company expects that its unrecognized tax benefits could be reduced by approximately $2 million, primarily as a result of the
expiration of certain statutes of limitation. The Company recorded an income tax provision of $13 million and $19 million in
the three and six months ended December 30, 2016, respectively. The income tax provision for the six months ended December 30, 2016 included approximately $4 million of net discrete tax benefits, primarily associated with the release
of tax reserves associated with the expiration of certain statutes of limitation and prior year tax adjustments. The Act significantly revises U.S. corporate income tax law by, among other things, lowering U.S. corporate income tax rates from 35% to 21%, implementing a territorial tax system and
imposing a tax on deemed repatriated earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries. The Act’s new international rules, including the Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income, the
Foreign Derived Intangible Income and the Base Erosion Anti-Avoidance Tax, are not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s financial statements. However, these assessments are based on preliminary review and analysis of the Act and
are subject to change as the Company continues to evaluate these highly complex rules as additional interpretive guidance is issued. The
tax expense is provisional because the Company continues to evaluate the impact of various domestic and international provisions of the Act as well as the impact of additional guidance that may be provided. This provisional tax expense increased the
Company’s effective tax rate for the three months ended December 29, 2017 to approximately 56%. Many of the other U.S. tax changes are not expected to impact the Company’s tax expense in the short-term due the Company’s large net
operating loss and tax credit carryovers. 5. The Company paid $9.75 per share, or $674 million, in cash for the acquisition. The acquisition of Dot Hill further expands the Company’s
OEM-focused cloud storage systems business and advances the Company’s strategic efforts. 6. Intangibles are amortized on a straight-line basis over the respective estimated useful lives of the assets. Amortization is charged to Operating expenses in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. For the three and six months ended December 30, 2016, the amortization expense of other intangible assets was $42 million and $84 million, respectively. The Company’s significant restructuring plans are described below. All restructuring charges are reported in Restructuring and other, net on the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. The December 2017 Plan included reducing the Company’s global headcount by approximately 500 employees. The December 2017 Plan is expected to be substantially completed by the end of fiscal year 2018. The July 2017 Plan included reducing the Company’s global headcount by approximately 600 employees. The July 2017 Plan was largely completed by the end of the September 2017 quarter. The Company closed its design center in Korea, resulting in the reduction of the Company’s headcount by approximately 300 employees. The March 2017 Plan was largely completed by the end
of fiscal year 2017. The July 2016 Plan included reducing worldwide headcount by approximately 6,500 employees. The July 2016 Plan was largely completed
by the end of the December 2017 quarter. In addition, during fiscal year 2017, the Company committed to sell certain land and buildings
primarily in Asia as part of the March 2017 and July 2016 plans, which accordingly met the criteria to be classified as assets held for sale and were reclassified to Other current assets at that time. These assets remained included in Other current
assets on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 29, 2017. The Company enters into foreign currency forward exchange contracts in order to manage the foreign currency exchange rate risk on
forecasted expenses denominated in foreign currencies. The Company’s accounting policies for these instruments are based on whether the instruments are classified as designated or non-designated hedging
instruments. The Company records all derivatives in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value. The changes in the fair value of the effective portions of designated cash flow hedges are recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive loss
until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. Derivatives that are not designated as hedging instruments and the ineffective portions of cash flow hedges are adjusted to fair value through earnings. The Company had no outstanding cash flow hedges
as of December 29, 2017 and June 30, 2017. The Company dedesignates its cash flow hedges when the forecasted hedged
transactions are realized or it is probable the forecasted hedged transactions will not occur in the initially identified time period. At such time, the associated gains and losses deferred in Accumulated other comprehensive loss are reclassified
immediately into earnings and any subsequent changes in the fair value of such derivative instruments are immediately reflected in earnings. The Company did not recognize any net gains or losses related to the loss of hedge designation on
discontinued cash flow hedges during the three and six months ended December 29, 2017. As of December 29, 2017 and
June 30, 2017, the Company does not have outstanding foreign currency forward exchange contracts. The Company pays a floating rate, based on LIBOR plus an
interest rate spread, on the notional amount of the TRS. The TRS is designed to substantially offset changes in the SDCP liability due to changes in the value of the investment options made by employees. As of December 29, 2017, the notional
investments underlying the TRS amounted to $117 million. The contract term of the TRS is through January 2019 and is settled on a monthly basis, therefore limiting counterparty performance risk. The Company did not designate the TRS as a hedge. Rather, the Company records all changes in the fair value of the TRS to earnings to offset the market value changes of the SDCP liabilities. The following tables show the effect of the Company’s derivative instruments on the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive
Income and the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations for the three and six months ended December 29, 2017. 9. When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities required to be recorded at fair value, the Company considers the principal or most advantageous market in which it would
transact and it considers assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability. A financial instrument’s categorization within the fair value hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input
that is significant to the fair value measurement. The Company considers an active market to be one in which transactions for the asset or liability occur with sufficient frequency and volume
to provide pricing information on an ongoing basis, and views an inactive market as one in which there are few transactions for the asset or liability, the prices are not current, or price quotations vary substantially either over time or among
market makers. Where appropriate the Company’s or the counterparty’s non-performance risk is considered in determining the fair values of liabilities and assets, respectively. The Company classifies items in Level 2 if the financial asset or liability is valued
using observable inputs. The Company uses observable inputs including quoted prices in active markets for similar assets or liabilities. These debt investments are priced using observable inputs and valuation models which vary by asset class. The Company uses a pricing service to assist in determining the fair values of all of its cash
equivalents. For the cash equivalents and short-term investments in the Company’s portfolio, multiple pricing sources are generally available. The pricing service uses inputs from multiple industry standard data providers or other third party
sources and various methodologies, such as weighting and models, to determine the appropriate price at the measurement date. The Company corroborates the prices obtained from the pricing service against other independent sources and, as of
December 29, 2017, has not found it necessary to make any adjustments to the prices obtained. The Company’s derivative financial instruments are also classified within Level 2. The Company’s derivative financial instruments
consist of foreign currency forward exchange contracts and the TRS. The Company recognizes derivative financial instruments in its consolidated financial statements at fair value. The Company determines the fair value of these instruments by
considering the estimated amount it would pay or receive to terminate these agreements at the reporting date. As
of December 29, 2017 and June 30, 2017, the Company had no Level 3 assets or liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis. These
strategic investments primarily include cost basis investments representing those where the Company does not have the ability to exercise significant influence as well as equity method investments representing those where the Company does have the
ability to exercise significant influence but does not have control. These investments are included in Other assets, net in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, and are periodically analyzed to determine whether or not there are indicators of
impairment. The carrying value of the Company’s strategic investments at December 29, 2017 and June 30, 2017 totaled $129 million and $125 million, respectively, and consisted primarily of privately held equity securities without
a readily determinable fair value. For the six months ended December 30, 2016, the Company determined that a certain equity investment accounted
for under the cost method was other-than-temporarily impaired, and recognized a charge of $25 million in order to write down the carrying amount of the investment to zero. Since there was no active market for the equity securities of the
investee, the Company estimated fair value of the investee by analyzing the underlying cash flows and future prospects of the investee. These amounts were recorded in Other, net in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Company did
not record any impairment charges in the three months ended December 30, 2016. The respective properties to be sold met the criteria to be classified as held for sale during the
quarters ended March 31, 2017 and June 30, 2017. Depreciation related to the properties ceased as of the date these were determined to be held for sale. During fiscal year 2017, the Company recorded impairment charges of
$35 million to write down the carrying amount of such properties to their estimated fair values less costs to sell. The impairment charges were recorded in Operating expenses in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations. No additional
impairment charges related to these properties were recorded during the three and six months period ended December 29, 2017. The fair values were measured with the assistance of third-party valuation models which used inputs such as comparable
market data for similar land sale transactions adjusted for differences in comparable properties to derive the estimated fair value of the subject properties and the cost approach valuation techniques for buildings as part of the analysis. The fair
value measurement was categorized as Level 3 as significant unobservable inputs were used in the valuation analysis. The estimated fair value of the Company’s debt is
derived using the closing price as of the date of valuation, which takes into account the yield curve, interest rates and other observable inputs. Accordingly, these fair value measurements are categorized as Level 2. Upon any liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Company, after required payments are made to holders of preferred shares, any remaining assets of the Company will be distributed ratably to
holders of the preferred and ordinary shares. Holders of shares are entitled to one vote per share on all matters upon which the ordinary shares are entitled to vote, including the election of directors. Preferred shares—The Company may issue preferred shares in one or more series, up to the authorized amount, without shareholder
approval. The Board of Directors is authorized to establish from time to time, the number of shares to be included in each series, and to fix the rights, preferences and privileges of the shares of each wholly unissued series and any of its
qualifications, limitations or restrictions. The Board of Directors can also increase or decrease the number of shares of a series, but not below the number of shares of that series then outstanding, without any further vote or action by the
shareholders. The Board of Directors may authorize the issuance of preferred shares with voting or conversion rights that could harm the
voting power or other rights of the holders of the ordinary shares. The issuance of preferred shares, while providing flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could, among other things, have the effect of
delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of the Company and might harm the market price of its ordinary shares and the voting and other rights of the holders of ordinary shares. All repurchases are effected as redemptions in accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association. As of December 29, 2017, $0.9 billion remained available for repurchase under the existing repurchase authorization limit. The Company recorded approximately $33 million and $73 million of share-based compensation expense during the
three and six months ended December 30, 2016, respectively. In addition, the Revised
Indemnification Agreement provides that Seagate-Cayman will advance expenses incurred by an Indemnitee in connection with enforcement of the Revised Indemnification Agreement or with the investigation, settlement or appeal of any action or
proceeding against him or her as to which he or she could be indemnified. Seagate-Cayman
entered into the Deed of Indemnity with certain Deed Indemnitees effective as of July 3, 2010 and continues to enter into the Deed of Indemnity with additional Deed Indemnitees from time to time. The nature of these indemnification obligations prevents the Company from making a reasonable estimate of the maximum potential amount it
could be required to pay on behalf of its officers and directors. Historically, the Company has not made any significant indemnification payments under such agreements and no amount has been accrued in the accompanying condensed consolidated
financial statements with respect to these indemnification obligations. These guarantees generally require the Company to compensate the other party for certain damages and costs incurred as a result of third party intellectual property claims arising from these transactions. The
nature of the intellectual property indemnification obligations prevents the Company from making a reasonable estimate of the maximum potential amount it could be required to pay to its customers and suppliers. Historically, the Company has not made
any significant indemnification payments under such agreements and no amount has been accrued in the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements with respect to these indemnification obligations. The Company generally warrants its products for a period of 1 to 5 years. The Company uses estimated repair or replacement costs and uses statistical modeling to
estimate product return rates in order to determine its warranty obligation. Diluted earnings per share is computed by dividing income available to shareholders by the weighted-average number of shares outstanding during the period and the
number of additional shares that would have been outstanding if the potentially dilutive securities had been issued. The dilutive effect of potentially dilutive securities is reflected in diluted earnings per share by application of the treasury stock method. Under the treasury stock method, an increase in fair
market value of the Company’s share price can result in a greater dilutive effect from potentially dilutive securities. 14. In the event that an
unfavorable outcome is determined to be probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated, the Company establishes an accrual for the litigation, claim or assessment. In addition, in the event an unfavorable outcome is determined to be
less than probable, but reasonably possible, the Company will disclose an estimate of the possible loss or range of such loss; however, when a reasonable estimate cannot be made, the Company will provide disclosure to that effect. Litigation is
inherently uncertain and may result in adverse rulings or decisions. Additionally, the Company may enter into settlements or be subject to judgments that may, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on its results of
operations. Accordingly, actual results could differ materially. On July 13, 2000, Convolve and MIT filed suit against Compaq Computer Corporation and Seagate Technology LLC in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York, alleging
infringement of U.S. Patent No. On January 16,
2002, Convolve filed an amended complaint, alleging defendants infringe U.S. Patent No. The district court ruled in 2010 that the ‘267 patent was out of the case. On August 16, 2011, the district court granted in part and denied in part the Company’s motion for summary judgment. On July 11, 2014, the district court granted the Company’s further summary judgment motion regarding the ‘473 patent. In view of the rulings made by the district court and the Court of Appeals and the uncertainty regarding the amount of damages, if any, that could be awarded Convolve in this matter, the Company does not believe that it is
currently possible to determine a reasonable estimate of the possible range of loss related to this matter. On September 2, 2015, PTAB issued its final written decision that claims 1-15 of the ‘995 patent are held unpatentable. On December 18, 2015, PTAB issued its final written decisions that
claims 1-32 and 40-53 of the ‘057 patent are held unpatentable. On February 4, 2016, PTAB issued its final written decision that claims 33-39 of the ‘057 patent are held unpatentable. Enova appealed PTAB’s decisions on the ‘995 patent and the ‘057 patent to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal
Circuit. On March 20, 2017, the court of appeals issued its judgment affirming PTAB’s decision on the ‘995 patent. On September 6, 2017, the court of appeals issued its judgment affirming PTAB’s decision on the ‘057
patent. On November 27, 2017, Enova filed a petition for writ of certiorari with the U.S. Supreme Court challenging the court of appeals’ decision on the ‘057 Patent. The Supreme Court has not yet ruled on this petition. The district
court case remains stayed. In view of the uncertainty regarding the amount of damages, if any, that could be awarded in this matter, the Company does not believe that it is currently possible to determine a reasonable estimate of the possible range
of loss related to this matter. 7,128,988, “Magnetic Material Structures, Devices and Methods.” The Company believes the claims asserted in the complaint are without merit and intends to vigorously defend this case. The court issued its claim construction
ruling on October 18, 2017. No trial date has been set. In view of the uncertainty regarding the amount of damages, if any, that could be awarded in this matter, the Company does not believe that it is currently possible to determine a
reasonable estimate of the possible range of loss related to this matter. Some of the Company’s operations require environmental permits and controls
to prevent and reduce air and water pollution, and these permits are subject to modification, renewal and revocation by issuing authorities. The Company has established environmental management systems and continually updates its environmental policies and standard operating
procedures for its operations worldwide. The Company believes that its operations are in material compliance with applicable environmental laws, regulations and permits. The Company budgets for operating and capital costs on an ongoing basis to
comply with environmental laws. If additional or more stringent requirements are imposed on the Company in the future, it could incur additional operating costs and capital expenditures. The Company has been identified as a potentially responsible party at several sites. At each of these sites,
the Company has an assigned portion of the financial liability based on the type and amount of hazardous substances disposed of by each party at the site and the number of financially viable parties. The Company has fulfilled its responsibilities at
some of these sites and remains involved in only a few at this time. While the Company’s ultimate costs in connection with these
sites is difficult to predict with complete accuracy, based on its current estimates of cleanup costs and its expected allocation of these costs, the Company does not expect costs in connection with these sites to be material. Similar legislation has been or may be enacted in
other jurisdictions, including in the United States, Canada, Mexico, Taiwan, China, Japan and others. If the Company or its suppliers fails to comply with the substance restrictions, recycle requirements or other environmental requirements as they are enacted worldwide, it could have a materially
adverse effect on the Company’s business. Although occasional adverse decisions or settlements may occur, the Company believes that the final disposition of
such matters will not have a material adverse effect on its financial position or results of operations. 15. The closing of the acquisition is subject to regulatory approvals and other closing conditions. 16. We
operate and report financial results on a fiscal year of 52 or 53 weeks ending on the Friday closest to June 30. The December 2017, September 2017 and December 2016 quarters were all 13 weeks. You should read this discussion in conjunction with financial information and related notes included elsewhere in this report. Unless the
context indicates otherwise, as used herein, the terms “we,” “us,” “Seagate,” the “Company” and “our” refer to Seagate Technology plc, an Irish public limited company, and its subsidiaries. References to “$” are to United States dollars. Some of the statements and assumptions included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 or Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each as amended, including,
in particular, statements about our plans, strategies and prospects, demand for our products, shifts in technology, estimates of industry growth, our ability to effectively manage our debt obligations, our restructuring efforts, the impact of the
Tax Cuts and Jobs Act on our financial statements, and the projected costs savings for the fiscal quarter ending March 30, 2018 and the fiscal year ending June 29, 2018 and beyond. These statements identify prospective information and may
include words such as “expects,” “intends,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “predicts,” “projects,” “may,” “will,” or negatives of
these words, variations of these words and comparable terminology. These forward-looking statements are based on information available to the Company as of the date of this Quarterly Report
on Form 10-Q and are based on management’s current views and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are conditioned upon and also involve a number of known and unknown risks,
uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements. Such risks, uncertainties and other factors may be beyond our control and may
pose a risk to our operating and financial condition. Information concerning risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause results to differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements is also
set forth in “Item 1A. Risk Factors” of the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017, which we encourage you to carefully read. These
forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any subsequent date and we undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date they were made. Overview of our business. Highlights of events in the December 2017 quarter that impacted our financial position. An analysis of our financial results comparing the December 2017 quarter to the September 2017 quarter and the December 2016 quarter. An analysis of changes in our balance sheet and cash flows, and discussion of our financial condition including the credit quality of our investment portfolio and potential
sources of liquidity. Overview of contractual obligations and contingent liabilities and commitments outstanding as of December 29, 2017. Accounting policies and estimates that we believe are important to understanding the assumptions and judgments incorporated in our reported financial results. Our principal products are hard disk drives, commonly referred to as disk drives, hard drives or HDDs. Hard disk drives
are devices that store digitally encoded data on rapidly rotating disks with magnetic surfaces. Disk drives continue to be the primary medium of mass data storage due to their performance attributes, high quality and cost effectiveness. Complementing existing data center storage architecture, solid-state storage devices use integrated circuit assemblies as memory to store data with most SSDs using NAND-based flash memory. In addition to HDDs and SSDs, SSHDs combine the features of
SSDs and HDDs in the same unit, containing a large hard disk drive and an SSD cache to improve performance of frequently accessed data. Our cloud systems and solutions extend innovation from the device into the information infrastructure, onsite and in the cloud. Our operating cash flow was $850 million. We repurchased 5 million of our ordinary shares for $195 million, paid $182 million in dividends, as well as paid $130 million for the repurchase of certain of
our outstanding debt. Compared to the December 2016 quarter, revenue in the December 2017 quarter increased modestly primarily due to increase in exabytes shipped,
offset by price erosion. Revenue for the six months ended December 2017 quarter decreased by $145 million from the six months ended
December 2016 quarter as a result of price erosion, partially offset by an improved product mix. We maintain various sales programs such
as channel rebates and price masking. Sales programs were approximately 12%, 11% and 11% of gross drive revenue for the December 2017 quarter, September 2017 quarter and December 2016 quarter, respectively. Adjustments to revenues due to under or
over accruals for sales programs related to revenues reported in prior quarterly periods were less than 1% of quarterly gross revenue in all periods presented. Compared to the corresponding three and six months ended December 2016 quarter, gross margin as a percentage of revenue for the three and six
months ended December 2017 quarter decreased by 100 basis points in both periods, primarily driven by price erosion, partially offset by favorable product mix and improved factory utilization resulting from cost savings due to our workforce
reductions and manufacturing consolidation activities. In the December 2017 quarter, total warranty cost was within the historical range
of 1% to 1.5% of revenue and included a favorable change in estimates of prior warranty accruals of less than 0.2% of revenue. Warranty cost related to new shipments was 1.4%, 1.3%, and 1.2% of revenue for each of the December 2017, September 2017
and December 2016 quarters, respectively. Product development expense for the December 2017 quarter decreased
by $13 million from the September 2017 quarter primarily due to a $4 million decrease in salaries and employee benefits as a result of the restructuring of our workforce in prior periods, a $13 million decrease due to related
operational efficiencies, partially offset by an increase in variable compensation expense. Compared to the December 2016 quarter,
product development expense decreased by $55 million primarily due to a $17 million decrease in salaries and employee benefits as a result of the restructuring of our workforce in prior periods, a $25 million decrease due to related
operational efficiencies and a $13 million decrease in variable compensation and share-based compensation expenses. Compared to
corresponding six months ended December 2016 quarter, product development expense decreased by $107 million primarily due to a $47 million decrease in salaries and employee benefits as a result of the restructuring of our workforce in
prior periods, a $36 million decrease due to related operational efficiencies and a $24 million decrease in variable compensation and share-based compensation expenses. Marketing and administrative expense. Marketing and administrative expense for the December 2017 quarter decreased by
$3 million from the September 2017 quarter primarily due to a decrease in salaries and related benefits as a result of the restructuring of our workforce in prior periods, partially offset by an increase in variable compensation expense. Compared to the December 2016 quarter, Marketing and administrative expense decreased by $13 million, primarily due to a $9 million
decrease in salaries and related benefits as a result of the restructuring of our workforce in prior periods, and a $4 million decrease in variable compensation expense. Compared to corresponding six months ended December 2016 quarter, marketing and administrative expense decreased by $21 million primarily
due to a $13 million decrease in salaries and related benefits as a result of the restructuring of our workforce in prior periods and a $8 million decrease in variable compensation expense. Amortization of intangibles. Amortization of intangibles for the three and six months ended December 2017 quarter decreased by
$3 million, $9 million and $16 million respectively, from the three months ended September 2017 quarter and the three and six months ended December 2016 quarter due to certain intangible assets reaching the end of their useful life. Restructuring and other, net. Restructuring and other, net for the three and six months ended December 2017 quarter was comprised
of restructuring charges to reduce our global workforce by 500 and 1100 employees, respectively. Restructuring and other, net for the
three and six months ended December 2016 quarter was primarily comprised of restructuring charges to reduce our global workforce by 6,500 employees. Each of these restructuring activities have reduced our workforce as we continue to consolidate our
global footprint across Asia, EMEA and the Americas. See “Part I, Item 1. Financial Statements—Note 7. Restructuring and Exit Costs” for more details. Compared to December 2016 quarter, Other expense, net increased by $2 million in the December 2017 quarter primarily due to a
$16 million of unfavorable change in foreign currency exchange rates and a $10 million increase in interest expense on the issuance of $750 million of 4.25% Senior Notes due 2022 and $500 million of 4.875% Senior Notes due 2024
in the quarter ended March 31, 2017, offset by the absence of a $25 million charge related to the impairment of a strategic investment in the December 2016 quarter. The income tax provision for the three and six months ended December 2017 quarter included approximately $197 million of net discrete tax expense, primarily associated with the revaluation of U.S.
deferred tax assets as a result of the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act on December 22, 2017, partially offset by the recognition of previously unrecognized tax benefits associated with the expiration of certain statutes of limitation. During the six months ended December 2017 quarter, our unrecognized tax benefits excluding interest and penalties increased by approximately
$1 million to $75 million. The unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would impact the effective tax rate were $75 million at December 29, 2017, subject to certain future changes in valuation allowance. During the twelve
months beginning December 30, 2017, we expect that our unrecognized tax benefits could be reduced by approximately $2 million, primarily as a result of the expiration of certain statutes of limitation. Our income tax provision recorded for the six months ended December 2016 quarter included approximately $4 million of net discrete tax
benefits, primarily associated with the release of tax reserves associated with the expiration of certain statutes of limitation. The Act significantly revises U.S. corporate income tax law by, among other things, lowering corporate income tax rates from 35% to 21%, implementing a territorial tax system and imposing a
tax on deemed repatriated earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries. The Act’s new international rules, including the Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income, the Foreign
Derived Intangible Income and the Base Erosion Anti-Avoidance Tax, are not expected to have a material impact on our financial statements. However, these assessments are based on preliminary review and analysis of the Act and are subject to change
as we continue to evaluate these highly complex rules as additional interpretive guidance is issued. The tax expense is provisional because we continue to evaluate the impact of various domestic and international provisions of the Act as
well as the impact of additional guidance that may be provided. This provisional tax expense increased our effective tax rate for the three months ended December 29, 2017 to approximately 56%. Many of the other U.S. tax changes are not expected
to impact our tax expense in the short-term due to our large net operating loss and tax credit carryovers. Our cash and cash equivalents are maintained in investments with remaining maturities of 90 days or less at the time of purchase. Our short-term investments consist primarily of money market funds, time deposits and certificates of
deposit. The principal objectives of our investment policy are the preservation of principal and maintenance of liquidity. We believe our cash equivalents and short-term investments are liquid and accessible. However, we believe our sources of cash have been and will continue to be sufficient to meet our cash needs for the next 12 months. We are not
aware of any downgrades, losses or other significant deterioration in the fair value of our cash equivalents or short-term investments. As of December 29, 2017, no borrowings had been drawn under the revolving credit facility or had been utilized for letters of credit
issued under this credit facility. The line of credit is available for borrowings, subject to compliance with financial covenants and other customary conditions to borrowing. On April 28, 2016, the Revolving Credit Agreement was amended in order to
increase the allowable net leverage ratio to adjust for our current financial liquidity position. We were in compliance with the modified covenants as of December 29, 2017 and
expect to be in compliance for the next 12 months. Our liquidity requirements are primarily to meet our working capital, product
development and capital expenditure needs, to fund scheduled payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness, and to fund our quarterly dividend. Our ability to fund these requirements will depend on our future cash flows, which are
determined by future operating performance, and therefore, subject to prevailing global macroeconomic conditions and financial, business and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. For fiscal year 2018, we expect capital expenditures to be less than 5% of revenue. From time to time we may repurchase any of our outstanding notes in open market or privately negotiated purchases or otherwise, or may
repurchase outstanding notes pursuant to the terms of the applicable indenture. Dividends declared in the December 2017 quarter of
$179 million were subsequently paid on January 3, 2018. The Company’s Board of Directors announced a quarterly cash dividend of $0.63 per share on January 29, 2018, which is payable on April 4, 2018 to shareholders of record
at the close of business on March 21, 2018. From time to time we may repurchase any of our outstanding ordinary shares through
private, open market, or broker-assisted purchases. As of December 29, 2017, $0.9 billion remained available for repurchase under our existing repurchase authorization limit. All repurchases are effected as redemptions in accordance
with the Company’s Articles of Association. The closing of the acquisition is subject to regulatory approvals and other
closing conditions. As of December 29, 2017, we had a liability for unrecognized tax benefits and an accrual for the payment of
related interest totaling $11 million, none of which is expected to be settled within one year. Outside of one year, we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of when cash settlement with a taxing authority will occur. The preparation of
such statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period and the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements. Our
estimates are based on historical experience and other assumptions that we consider to be appropriate in the circumstances. However, actual future results may vary from our estimates. Since our fiscal year ended June 30, 2017, there have been no material changes in our critical accounting policies and
estimates. Refer to “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” contained in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017, as filed with the SEC on August 4, 2017, for a discussion of our critical accounting policies and estimates. Financial Statements—Note 1. Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” for information regarding the effect of new accounting pronouncements on our financial statements. A portion of these risks may be hedged, but fluctuations could impact our results of operations, financial position and
cash flows. Interest Rate Risk. Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment
portfolio. As of December 29, 2017, we had no available-for-sale securities that had been in a continuous unrealized loss position for a period greater
than 12 months. The Company determined no available-for-sale securities were other-than-temporarily impaired as of December 29, 2017. We currently do not
use derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. We have fixed-rate debt obligations. We enter into these debt
obligations to support general corporate purposes including capital expenditures and working capital needs. The table below presents
principal amounts and related weighted-average interest rates by year of maturity for our investment portfolio and debt obligations as of December 29, 2017. From time to time, we may enter into foreign currency forward exchange
contracts to manage exposure related to certain foreign currency commitments and anticipated foreign currency denominated expenditures. Our policy prohibits us from entering into derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. At this time, we have not identified any material exposure associated with the changes as a result of the British vote to exit the European Union. We hedge portions of our foreign currency denominated balance sheet positions with foreign currency forward exchange contracts to reduce the
risk that our earnings will be adversely affected by changes in currency exchange rates. The changes in fair value of these hedges are recognized in earnings in the same period as the gains and losses from the remeasurement of the assets and
liabilities. These foreign currency forward exchange contracts are not designated as hedging instruments under ASC 815, Derivatives and Hedging. We had no outstanding foreign currency forward exchange contracts as of December 29,
2017. We evaluate hedging effectiveness prospectively and retrospectively and record any ineffective portion of the hedging instruments
in Cost of revenue on the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. Other Market Risks. We have exposure to counterparty credit downgrades in the
form of credit risk related to our foreign currency forward exchange contracts and our fixed income portfolio. We monitor and limit our credit exposure for our foreign currency forward exchange contracts by performing ongoing credit evaluations. We
also manage the notional amount of contracts entered into with any one counterparty, and we maintain limits on maximum tenor of contracts based on the credit rating of the financial institution. Additionally, the investment portfolio is diversified
and structured to minimize credit risk. Changes in our corporate issuer credit ratings have minimal impact on our financial results, but downgrades may negatively impact our future transaction costs and our ability to execute transactions with
various counterparties. We
pay a floating rate, based on LIBOR plus an interest rate spread, on the notional amount of the TRS. The TRS is designed to substantially offset changes in the SDCP liability due to changes in the value of the investment options made by employees. See “Part I, Item 1. Financial Statements—Note 8. Derivative Financial Instruments” of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Based on the evaluation, our management, including our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December 29, 2017. During the quarter ended
December 29, 2017, there were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting that materially affected, or were reasonably likely to materially affect our internal control over financial reporting. Financial Statements—Note 14. Legal, Environmental and Other Contingencies” of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. ITEM 1A. In
addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the risk factors discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K as they could materially affect our business,
financial condition and future results. The Risk Factors are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not
currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. ITEM 2. On April 22, 2015, the Board of Directors authorized the Company to repurchase $2.5 billion of its outstanding ordinary shares. As of December 29, 2017, $0.9 billion remained available for repurchase under the existing repurchase authorization limit. There is
no expiration date on this authorization. ITEM 4. ITEM 5. +
Filed herewith. †
The certifications attached as Exhibit 32.1 that accompany this Form 10-Q are not deemed filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and are not to be incorporated
by reference into any filing of Seagate Technology plc under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, whether made before or after the date of this
Form 10-Q, irrespective of any general incorporation language contained in such filing.