See the definitions of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer," "smaller reporting company," and "emerging growth company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. In management's opinion, the unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contain all normal recurring adjustments
necessary for a fair presentation of interim results. The results of operations reported for interim periods are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations for the entire fiscal year or
any subsequent interim period. The
year-end balance sheet data was derived from audited financial statements, but does not include all of the information and disclosures required by GAAP. These financial statements
should be read in conjunction with our audited Consolidated Financial Statements contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2017. Unless
otherwise indicated, references in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements to fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017 are to our fiscal years ending September 28, 2018 and
ended September 29, 2017, respectively. ASC 606 also enhances disclosures related to
revenue recognition. ASC 606, as amended, is effective for us beginning in fiscal 2019, and we intend to adopt the new standard using the modified retrospective approach applied to
contracts that are not completed as of that date. We are continuing to assess the impact of adopting ASC 606. Based on the ongoing evaluation of our current contracts and revenue streams, we do not
expect that adoption will have a material impact on our results of operations or financial position. We are in the process of identifying necessary changes to accounting policies, processes, financial
statement disclosures, internal controls, and systems to enable compliance with this new standard. We believe we are following an appropriate timeline to allow for the proper recognition, reporting,
and disclosure of revenue upon adoption of ASC 606 at the beginning of fiscal 2019. 2017-07, an update to ASC 715, Compensation—Retirement
Benefits, which changes the income statement presentation of net periodic pension benefit cost and net periodic postretirement benefit cost. The ASU requires that service costs
be presented with other employee compensation costs within operating income and that other cost components be presented outside of operating income. We elected to early adopt this update in the
quarter ended December 29, 2017. The update was applied retrospectively and did not have a material impact on our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. In connection with this program, during the quarter ended December 29, 2017, we recorded restructuring charges of $22 million. We expect to complete
significantly all restructuring actions commenced during the quarter ended December 29, 2017 by the end of fiscal 2019 and to incur total charges of approximately $30 million with the
remaining charges primarily in the Industrial Solutions segment. In connection with this program, during the quarters ended December 29, 2017 and December 30, 2016, we recorded restructuring charges of
$5 million and $46 million, respectively. We expect to complete all restructuring actions commenced during fiscal 2017 by the end of fiscal 2019 and to incur total charges of
approximately $160 million with the remaining charges primarily in the Communications Solutions segment. During the quarter ended December 29, 2017, we recorded net restructuring charges of $8 million related to pre-fiscal 2017 actions. We expect to
incur additional charges of approximately $15 million related to pre-fiscal 2017 actions with the remaining charges primarily in the Communications Solutions segment. 5. During
the quarter ended December 29, 2017, we reclassified $325 million of 2.375% senior notes due 2018 from long-term debt to short-term debt on the Condensed
Consolidated Balance Sheet. During
December 2017, TEGSA entered into an uncommitted revolving credit facility under which it borrowed €100 million, at a 0% interest rate with repayment due at
maturity in December 2018. As
of December 29, 2017, TEGSA had $241 million of commercial paper outstanding at a weighted-average interest rate of 1.96%. TEGSA had no commercial paper outstanding at
September 29, 2017. The
fair value of our debt, based on indicative valuations, was approximately $4,298 million and $4,622 million at December 29, 2017 and September 29, 2017,
respectively. 7. Although it is not feasible to predict the outcome of these proceedings, based upon our experience, current information, and applicable
law, we do not expect that the outcome of these proceedings, either individually or in the aggregate, will have a material effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. As of December 29, 2017, we concluded
that it was probable that we would incur investigation and remediation costs at these sites in the range of $15 million to $44 million, and that the best estimate within this range was
$19 million. We believe that any potential payment of such estimated amounts will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. We do not expect that these uncertainties will have a material adverse effect on our results of
operations, financial position, or cash flows. At
December 29, 2017, we had outstanding letters of credit, letters of guarantee, and surety bonds of $291 million. We
generally record estimated product warranty costs when contract revenues are recognized under the percentage-of-completion method for construction related contracts; other warranty
reserves are not significant. The estimation is based primarily on historical experience and actual warranty claims. Amounts accrued for warranty claims were $49 million and $50 million
at December 29, 2017 and September 29, 2017, respectively. Pursuant to the Tax Sharing Agreement, we entered into certain guarantee
commitments and indemnifications with Tyco International and Covidien. We have substantially settled all U.S. federal income tax matters with the Internal Revenue Service for periods covered under the
Tax Sharing Agreement. Certain shared U.S. state and non-U.S. income tax matters remain open. We do not expect these matters will have a material effect on our results of operations, financial
position, or cash flows. The aggregate notional value of
these hedges was $3,343 million and $3,110 million at December 29, 2017 and September 29, 2017, respectively. 9. During
the quarter ended December 29, 2017, we contributed $13 million to our non-U.S. pension plans. See "Tax Cuts and Jobs Act" below for additional information. The income tax expense for the quarter ended December 30,
2016 included a $30 million income tax benefit associated with the tax impacts of certain intercompany restructurings and the corresponding reduction in the valuation allowance for U.S. tax
loss carryforwards. We
record accrued interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions as part of income tax expense. As of December 29, 2017 and September 29, 2017, we had
$62 million and $60 million, respectively, of accrued interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, recorded primarily in income
taxes. During the quarter ended December 29, 2017, we recognized $2 million of income tax expense related to interest and penalties on the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations. Although
it is difficult to predict the timing or results of our worldwide examinations, we estimate that up to approximately $40 million of unrecognized income tax benefits,
excluding the impact relating to accrued interest and penalties, could be resolved within the next twelve months. We
are not aware of any other matters that would result in significant changes to the amount of unrecognized income tax benefits reflected on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as
of December 29, 2017. The Act includes numerous significant changes to existing tax
law, including a permanent reduction in the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate from 35% to 21%, further limitations on the deductibility of interest expense and certain executive compensation,
repeal of the corporate Alternative Minimum Tax, and imposition of a territorial tax system with a one-time repatriation tax on deemed repatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries. While some of the
new provisions of the Act will impact us in fiscal 2019 and beyond, the change in the corporate income tax rate was effective January 1, 2018. During the quarter ended December 29, 2017,
we were required to revalue our U.S. federal deferred tax assets and liabilities at the new federal corporate income tax rate in the period of enactment; accordingly, we recorded additional income tax
expense of $567 million primarily to write-down our net U.S. federal deferred tax asset to the lower statutory tax rate. Most of this charge related to the revaluation of our U.S. federal net
operating loss and interest carryforwards to the lower tax rate. Included in the $567 million charge was a $34 million benefit related to the reduction in the existing valuation
allowance recorded against certain U.S. federal tax credit carryforwards. The limitations on interest expense deductions contained in the Act are expected to increase prospective taxable income and
thereby allow the utilization of more tax credits in future years. As a Swiss corporation, the one-time repatriation tax imposed by the Act will not be significant to us. Also, we do not expect a
change in our fiscal 2018 cash taxes because of the new law. The
Act makes broad and complex changes to the U.S. tax code, and in certain instances, lacks clarity and is subject to interpretation until additional Internal Revenue Service guidance
is issued. One area requiring guidance is a
transition rule regarding limitations on interest expense deductions. The Act does not address the treatment of the carryforward of disallowed interest expense generated under the prior law. Our
interpretation is that the carryforward of interest should survive and is deductible in future periods subject to the new interest limitations. Accordingly, during the quarter ended
December 29, 2017, we revalued our beginning deferred tax asset related to our interest carryforwards to $223 million to reflect the lower statutory rate. It is possible additional
regulatory guidance could be issued contrary to this interpretation at which point we may be required to record a charge to income tax expense to revalue or eliminate the related deferred tax asset. 11. For
the quarter ended December 29, 2017, there were three million nonvested share awards and options outstanding with underlying exercise prices less than the average market
prices of our common shares; however, these were excluded from the calculation of diluted loss per share as inclusion would be antidilutive as a result of our loss during the period. 12. Upon
shareholders' approval of a dividend payment, we record a liability with a corresponding charge to shareholders' equity. At December 29, 2017 and September 29, 2017,
the unpaid portion of the dividends recorded in accrued and other current liabilities on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets totaled $140 million and $281 million, respectively. 13. TEGSA is the obligor under our senior notes, commercial paper, and five-year unsecured senior revolving credit facility, which are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by its parent, TE
Connectivity Ltd. The following tables present condensed consolidating financial information for TE Connectivity Ltd., TEGSA, and all other subsidiaries that are not providing a
guarantee of debt but which represent assets of TEGSA, using the equity method of accounting. Cash flows are presented based upon the nature of the
distributions. The following discussion may contain forward-looking statements that
reflect our plans, estimates, and beliefs. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements as a result of many factors, including but not limited to
those under the heading "Forward-Looking Information" and "Part II. Item 1A. Risk Factors." The
following discussion includes organic net sales growth which is a non-GAAP financial measure. We believe this non-GAAP financial measure, together with GAAP financial measures,
provides useful information to investors because it is one of the financial measures that management uses in evaluating the underlying results of our operations. See "Non-GAAP Financial Measure" for
more information about this non-GAAP financial measure, including our reasons for including the measure and material limitations with respect to the usefulness of the measure. For more than 75 years, our connectivity and sensor solutions, proven in the harshest environments, have
enabled advancements in transportation, industrial applications, medical technology, energy, data communications, and the home. Foreign currency exchange rates positively impacted net sales by
$115 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 as compared to the same period of fiscal 2017. On an organic basis, our net sales increased 7.9% during the first quarter of fiscal 2018 as
compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2017. •Industrial Solutions—Our net sales increased 10.9% during the first
quarter of fiscal 2018 due primarily to increased sales in the industrial equipment end market. •Communications Solutions—Our net sales decreased 4.6% in the first
quarter of fiscal 2018 with sales declines in the subsea communications end market, partially offset by sales increases in the appliances and, to a lesser degree, the data and devices end markets. • Net cash provided by operating activities was $350 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2018. We also expect continued growth in the commercial transportation and sensors end markets. •Industrial Solutions—We expect our net sales to increase in the industrial
equipment end market due primarily to continued growth in the factory automation and controls market and the medical market. •Communications Solutions—We expect our net sales growth in the appliances and the
data and devices end markets to be partially offset by sales declines in the subsea communications end market. We
expect diluted earnings per share from continuing operations to be in the range of $1.18 to $1.22 per share in the second quarter of fiscal 2018. This outlook reflects the positive impact of
foreign currency exchange rates on net sales and earnings per share of approximately $123 million and $0.06 per share, respectively, in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 as compared to the
second quarter of fiscal 2017. For
fiscal 2018, we expect our net sales to be between $14.1 billion and $14.3 billion as compared to $13.1 billion in fiscal 2017. This increase reflects sales
growth in the Transportation Solutions and Industrial Solutions segments relative to fiscal 2017. We expect global automotive production to increase approximately 2% in
fiscal 2018. We also expect continued growth in the commercial transportation and sensors end markets. •Industrial Solutions—We expect our net sales to increase in the industrial
equipment end market primarily as a result of growth in the factory automation and controls market and the medical market. •Communications Solutions—We expect our net sales growth in the appliances and the
data and devices end markets to be offset by sales declines in the subsea communications end market. We expect our sales in the subsea communications end market to be approximately $800 million
in fiscal 2018. We
expect diluted earnings per share from continuing operations to be in the range of $3.61 to $3.71 per share in fiscal 2018. This outlook reflects the positive impact of foreign currency exchange
rates on net sales and earnings per share of approximately $228 million and $0.11 per share, respectively, in fiscal 2018 as compared to fiscal 2017. The
above outlook is based on foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices that are consistent with current levels. We
are monitoring the current macroeconomic environment and its potential effects on our customers and the end markets we serve. We continue to closely manage our costs in line with
economic conditions. See further discussion in "Liquidity and Capital Resources." The increase in net sales resulted from organic
net sales growth of 7.9%, the positive impact of foreign currency translation of 3.7% due to the strengthening of certain foreign currencies, and sales contributions from acquisitions of 2.0%. Price
erosion adversely affected organic net sales by $44 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2018. See
further discussion of net sales below under "Segment Results." Net Sales by Geographic Region. Increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar, compared to
other currencies, will directly affect our reported results as we translate those currencies into U.S. dollars at the end of each fiscal period. Approximately
60% of our net sales were invoiced in currencies other than the U.S. dollar in the first quarter of fiscal 2018. The increase in gross margin was due primarily to higher
volume and improved manufacturing productivity, partially offset by the negative impact of price erosion. Gross margin as a percentage of net sales decreased to 33.8% in the first quarter of 2018 from
34.8% in the first quarter of fiscal 2017. Cost
of sales and gross margin are subject to variability in raw material prices which continue to fluctuate for many of the raw materials used in the manufacture of our products. Selling, general, and administrative expenses increased $16 million in the
first quarter of
fiscal 2018 from the first quarter of fiscal 2017. The increase resulted primarily from increased selling expenses to support higher sales levels. Selling, general, and
administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales decreased to 11.0% in the first quarter of 2018 from 12.0% in the first quarter of fiscal 2017. Research, Development, and Engineering Expenses. In the first quarter of fiscal 2018, research, development, and engineering
expenses increased
$20 million as compared to the same period of fiscal 2017 due to costs related to growth initiatives, primarily in the Transportation Solutions segment. Restructuring and Other Charges, Net. We are committed to continuous productivity improvements and consistently evaluate
opportunities to simplify
our global manufacturing footprint, migrate facilities to lower-cost regions, reduce fixed costs, and eliminate excess capacity. These initiatives are designed to help us maintain our competitiveness
in the industry, improve our operating leverage, and position us for future growth. During
fiscal 2018, we initiated a restructuring program associated with footprint consolidation and structural improvements primarily impacting the Industrial Solutions segment. During
fiscal 2017, we initiated a restructuring program associated with footprint consolidation related to recent acquisitions and structural improvements impacting all segments. In
connection with these initiatives, we incurred net restructuring charges of $35 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2018, of which $22 million related to the
fiscal 2018 restructuring program. Annualized cost savings related to fiscal 2018 actions commenced during the first quarter of fiscal 2018 are expected to be approximately $20 million and are
expected to be realized by the end of fiscal 2019. Cost savings will be reflected primarily in cost of sales and selling, general, and administrative expenses. During fiscal 2018, we expect to incur
net restructuring charges of approximately $150 million. See
Note 2 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding net restructuring and other charges. See Note 10 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of items
impacting income tax expense for the first quarters of fiscal 2018 and 2017 and information regarding the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. In the Americas region, our organic net sales increased due to content
growth in North America and continued market recovery in South America. Our growth in the EMEA region was driven by market growth, electronification, and new model launches. Our growth in the
Asia–Pacific region resulted from market share gains and electronification. •Commercial transportation—Our organic net sales increased 34.2% in the first
quarter of fiscal 2018, with growth in the heavy truck, construction, and agriculture markets and sales increases across all regions. •Sensors—Our organic net sales increased 10.6% in the first quarter of fiscal 2018
due primarily to growth in the commercial transportation, industrial equipment, and automotive markets. •Aerospace, defense, oil, and gas—Our organic net sales decreased 2.2% in the first
quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily as a result of declines in our sales into the commercial aerospace market. •Energy—Our organic net sales decreased 6.1% in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 due
to weakness in the power market and declines in all regions. Operating Income. •Subsea communications—Our organic net sales decreased 33.2% in the first quarter of
fiscal 2018 as a result of lower levels of project activity and production delays on a program. •Appliances—Our organic net sales increased 21.7% in the first quarter of fiscal
2018 due to market share gains and growth in all regions. We believe that cash generated from operations
and, to the extent necessary, these other sources of potential funding will be sufficient to meet our anticipated capital needs for the foreseeable future, including the payment of $325 million
of 2.375% senior notes due in 2018. We may use excess cash to purchase a portion of our common shares pursuant to our authorized share repurchase program, to acquire strategic businesses or product
lines, to pay dividends on our common shares, or to reduce our outstanding debt, including through the possible repurchase of our debt in accordance with applicable law. The cost or availability of
future funding may be impacted by financial market conditions. We will continue to monitor financial markets and respond as necessary to changing conditions. The decrease resulted primarily from an increase in employee-compensation related payments, partially offset by higher pre-tax income levels. The
amount of income taxes paid, net of refunds, during the first quarters of fiscal 2018 and 2017 was $82 million and $96 million, respectively. We expect
fiscal 2018 capital spending levels to be approximately 5% of net sales. We believe our capital funding levels are adequate to support new programs, and we continue to invest in our manufacturing
infrastructure to further enhance productivity and manufacturing capabilities. See
Note 6 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding debt. During
December 2017, TEGSA entered into an uncommitted revolving credit facility under which it borrowed €100 million, at a 0% interest rate with repayment due at
maturity in December 2018. TEGSA had no
borrowings under the
Credit Facility at December 29, 2017 or September 29, 2017. Borrowings under our commercial paper program are backed by the Credit Facility and reduce the availability of funds from the
Credit Facility. The Credit Facility and our other debt agreements contain other customary covenants. None of our covenants are presently considered restrictive to our operations. As of December 29,
2017, we were in compliance with all of our debt covenants and believe that we will continue to be in compliance with our existing covenants for the foreseeable future. In
addition to the Credit Facility, TEGSA is the borrower under our senior notes and commercial paper. During
the first quarter of fiscal 2018, our board of directors authorized an increase of $1.5 billion in the share repurchase program. We repurchased approximately
2 million of our common shares for $214 million and approximately 2 million of our common shares for $102 million under our share repurchase program during the first
quarters of fiscal 2018 and 2017, respectively. At December 29, 2017, we had $1,766 million of availability remaining under our share repurchase authorization. Although it is not feasible to predict the outcome of these proceedings, based upon our
experience, current information, and applicable law, we do not expect that the outcome of these proceedings, either individually or in the aggregate, will have a material effect on our results of
operations, financial position, or cash flows. The guarantees would be triggered in the event of nonperformance, and the potential exposure for nonperformance under
the guarantees would not have a material effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. We do not expect that these uncertainties will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. At
December 29, 2017, we had outstanding letters of credit, letters of guarantee, and surety bonds of $291 million. See Note 7 to the Condensed
Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Tax Sharing Agreement. Our
accounting policies for revenue recognition, goodwill and other intangible assets, income taxes, and pension liabilities are based on, among other things, judgments and assumptions
made by management. For additional information regarding these policies and the underlying accounting assumptions and estimates used in these policies, refer to the Consolidated Financial Statements
and accompanying notes contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2017. There were no significant changes to this information during the first
quarter of fiscal 2018. Organic net sales growth is a useful measure of our performance because it excludes items that are not completely
under management's control, such as the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, and items that do not reflect the underlying growth of the company, such as acquisition and divestiture
activity. Management uses organic net sales growth to monitor and evaluate performance. Also,
management uses organic net sales growth together with GAAP financial measures in its decision-making processes related to the operations of our reportable segments and our overall company. It is also
a significant component in our incentive compensation plans. We believe that investors benefit from having access to the same financial measures that management uses in evaluating operations. The
tables presented in "Results of Operations" and "Segment Results" provide reconciliations of organic net sales growth to net sales growth calculated in accordance with GAAP. Organic
net sales growth is a non-GAAP financial measure and should not be considered a replacement for results in accordance with GAAP. This non-GAAP financial measure may not be
comparable to similarly-titled measures reported by other companies. The primary limitation of this measure is that it excludes the financial impact of items that would otherwise either increase or
decrease our reported results. This limitation is best addressed by using organic net sales growth in combination with net sales growth in order to better understand the amounts, character, and impact
of any increase or decrease in reported amounts. Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on our management's beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available to our management. Forward-looking statements
include, among others, the information concerning our possible or assumed future results of operations, business strategies, financing plans, competitive position, potential growth opportunities,
potential operating performance improvements, acquisitions, divestitures, the effects of competition, and the effects of future legislation or regulations. Forward-looking statements include all
statements that are not historical facts and can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as the words "believe," "expect," "plan," "intend," "anticipate," "estimate," "predict,"
"potential," "continue," "may," "should," or the negative of these terms or similar expressions. Forward-looking
statements involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements. Investors should
not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. We do not have any intention or obligation to update forward-looking statements after we file this report except as required by law. The
following and other risks, which are described in greater detail in "Part I. Item 1A. There
may be other risks and uncertainties that we are unable to predict at this time or that we currently do not expect to have a material adverse effect on our business. ITEM 3. For further discussion of our
exposures to market risk, refer to "Part II. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
September 29, 2017. ITEM 4. Based on that evaluation, our Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December 29, 2017. Refer to "Part I. Item 3. Legal Proceedings" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2017 for additional
information regarding legal proceedings. ITEM 1A. Item 1A. Risk Factors" in our Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2017. The risk factors described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, in addition to other information in this report,
could materially affect our business operations, financial condition, or liquidity. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also
impair our business operations, financial condition, and liquidity. ITEM 2. Our share
repurchase program authorizes us to purchase a portion of our outstanding common shares from time to time through open market or private transactions, depending on business and market conditions. The
share repurchase program does not have an expiration date.