EmployerIdentification No. See definition of “large accelerated filer”, “accelerated filer”, “smaller reporting company”, and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. We design, manufacture, and sell a broad range of products that capture and move data. We also provide a full range of services, including maintenance, technical support, repair, and managed services, including cloud-based subscriptions. End-users of our products and services include those in retail and e-commerce, transportation and logistics, manufacturing, healthcare, hospitality, warehouse and distribution, energy and utilities, and education industries around the world. We provide our products and services globally through a direct sales force and an extensive network of channel partners. These condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017.The Company reclassified $41 million of costs from Accrued liabilities to Accounts payable on the Consolidated Balance Sheets for the period ended December 31, 2017 to conform to the current period presentation. These results, however, are not necessarily indicative of the results expected for the full year ending December 31, 2018. Note 2 Significant Accounting PoliciesRevenue Recognition. The average life of repair and maintenance service contracts is approximately three years. The duration of professional service arrangements ranges from a day to several weeks or months. We recognize revenues when we transfer control of promised goods or services to our customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which we expect to receive in exchange for those goods or services. The Company elects to exclude from the transaction price sales and other taxes assessed by a governmental authority and collected by the Company from a customer. The adoption of ASC 606 did not have a material effect on the Company’s consolidated financial statements or results of operations. Had the Company applied the previous revenue recognition guidance, revenue would have been $3 million lower for the quarter ended June 30, 2018 and $2 million lower for the six-month period ended June 30, 2018.See Note 3, Revenues for further information. ASU 2016-01 amends various aspects of the recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure for financial instruments. It replaces the existing incurred loss impairment model with an expected loss methodology, which will result in more timely recognition of credit losses. There are two transition methods available under the new standard dependent upon the type of financial instrument, either cumulative effect or prospective. The standard will be effective for the Company in the first quarter of 2020. Earlier adoption is permitted only for annual periods after December 15, 2018. Management has assessed the impact of adoption of the new standard and determined there are no material impacts to the Company's consolidated financial statements or disclosures resulting from the adoption of this ASU. The principal difference from previous guidance is that the lease assets and lease liabilities arising from operating leases were not previously recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The recognition, measurement and cash flows arising from a lease by a lessee have not significantly changed. This standard will be effective for the Company in the first quarter of 2019, with early adoption permitted. In transition, lessees 8Table of Contentsand lessors are required to recognize and measure leases at the beginning of the earliest period presented using a modified retrospective approach, which includes a number of optional practical expedients that entities may elect to apply. While Management is currently assessing the impact of adoption on its consolidated financial statements, we have identified and collected data on our significant leases, made progress in assessing practical expedients and policy elections we will make upon adoption, as well as, selected an accounting system to support future accounting and disclosure requirements. At this time, we do not have an estimate of the expected increase in assets and liabilities on the Company’s consolidated balance sheet upon adoption of this ASU in the first quarter of 2019.Note 3 Revenues As prescribed in ASC 606, the Company recognizes revenue to depict the transfer of goods or services to a customer at an amount that reflects the consideration which the entity expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services.Performance ObligationsWe enter into contract arrangements that may include various combinations of tangible products and services, which generally are capable of being distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations. For these types of contract arrangements, we evaluate whether two or more contracts should be combined and accounted for as one single contract and whether the combined or single contract has more than one performance obligation. This evaluation requires significant judgment and the decision to combine a group of contracts or separate the combined or single contract into multiple performance obligations could change the amount of revenue recorded in the reporting period. We use the accounting guidance on “capable of being distinct” and “distinct within the context of the contract” to help with the aforementioned evaluation. When the standalone selling prices are not directly observable, we estimate the standalone selling prices primarily based on the expected cost-plus margin approach. For arrangements comprised strictly of the sale of product and performance of maintenance type services where the standalone selling price of the maintenance service is not discernible, we estimate the standalone selling price of the maintenance contract through the use of the residual approach. When the residual approach cannot be applied, regional pricing, marketing strategies and business practices are evaluated and analyzed to derive the estimated standalone selling price through the use of a cost-plus margin methodology.The Company recognizes revenue when transfer of control has occurred for the goods or services sold. Control is deemed to have been transferred when the customer has the ability to direct the use of and has obtained substantially all of the remaining benefits from the goods and services sold. For each performance obligation satisfied over time, the Company measures its progress toward completion to determine the timing of revenue recognition. Assuming all other criteria for revenue recognition have been met, for products and services sold on a standalone basis, revenue is generally recognized upon shipment and by using an output method or time-based method respectively. In cases where a bundle of products and services are delivered to the customer, judgment is required to select the method of progress which best reflects the transfer of control.The Company’s remaining obligations that are greater than one year in duration relate primarily to repair and support services. The aggregated transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations related to these types of service arrangements is $430 million as of June 30, 2018. We expect to recognize these performance obligations over the approximate three-year average contract term. For some of our transactions, products are sold with a right of return, and we may also provide other rebates, price protection, or incentives, which are accounted for as variable consideration. The Company estimates the amount of variable consideration by using the expected value or the most likely amount method and reduces the revenue by those estimated amounts, only to the extent it is probable that a significant reversal in the cumulative revenue recognized will not occur. Substantially all of our revenue for tangible products is recognized at a point in time, whereby revenue for services and software is predominantly recognized over time.Contract BalancesProgress on satisfying performance obligations under contracts with customers and the related billings and cash collections are recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets in Accounts receivable, net and Prepaid expenses and other current assets. The opening and closing contract assets balances were $7 million and $5 million, as of January 1, 2018 and June 30, 2018, respectively, and were recorded within Prepaid expenses and other current assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. These contract assets result from timing differences between the billing schedule and the products and services delivery schedules, as well as, the impact from the allocation of the transaction price among performance obligations for contracts that include multiple performance obligations. Our policy is to test these contract asset balances for impairment in accordance with ASC 310 Receivables. No impairment losses have been recorded for the three and six-month periods ended June 30, 2018.Deferred revenue on the Consolidated Balance Sheets, consist of payments and billings in advance of our performance. The combined short-term and long-term Deferred revenue balances were $348 million and $334 million at June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. During the three-month and six-month period ended June 30, 2018, the Company recognized $55 million and $120 million in revenue respectively, which was previously included in the beginning balance of deferred revenue. Our payment terms vary by the type and location of our customer and the products or services offered. The time between invoicing and when payment is due is not significant. In instances where the timing of revenue recognition differs from the timing of invoicing, we have determined that our contracts do not include a significant financing component.Costs to obtain a contractOur incremental direct costs of obtaining a contract, which consist of sales commissions and incremental fringe benefits, are deferred and amortized over the weighted-average contract term, consistent with the guidance in ASC 340 Other Assets and Deferred Costs. The incremental costs to obtain a contract, which were previously expensed as incurred under ASC 605, and the determination of the amortization period are derived at a portfolio level and the amortization is recognized on a straight-line basis. The adoption of ASC 606 required the capitalization of these costs which resulted in an adjustment to increase retained earnings. The Company recorded $12 million to Other long-term assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of January 1, 2018. The Company recognized amortization expense related to commissions during the three-month and six-month period ended June 30, 2018 of $3 million and $5 million, respectively. The ending balance of the deferred commissions was $12 million as of June 30, 2018. Manufactured inventory cost includes materials, labor, and manufacturing overhead. Purchased inventory cost also includes internal purchasing overhead costs.Provisions are made to reduce excess and obsolete inventories to their estimated net realizable values. The Company completed all initiatives under the Acquisition Plan as of December 31, 2017. Actions under the Productivity Plan include organizational design changes, process improvements and automation. Exit and restructuring costs are not included in the operating results of our segments as they are not deemed to impact the specific segment measures as reviewed by our Chief Operating Decision Maker and therefore are reported as a component of Corporate, eliminations. See Note 14, Segment Information.Total exit and restructuring charges of $17 million life-to-date specific to the Productivity Plan have been recorded through June 30, 2018 and relate to severance and related benefits and other expenses. Exit and restructuring charges of $1 million and $5 million were recorded in the respective three and six-month periods ended June 30, 2018, respectively. The long-term portion of the accrual relates to non-cancellable lease payments associated with exited facilities whose latest term expires May 2021.Note 6 Fair Value MeasurementsFinancial assets and liabilities are to be measured using inputs from three levels of the fair value hierarchy in accordance with ASC Topic 820, “Fair Value Measurements.” Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The fair value hierarchy gives the lowest priority to Level 3 inputs.In determining fair value, the Company utilizes valuation techniques that maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs to the extent possible. As a result, there were $1 million of transfers from Level 2 to Level 1 as of June 30, 2018 and $2 million as of December 31, 2017. See gross balance reporting in Note 7, Derivative Instruments. Note 7 Derivative InstrumentsIn the normal course of business, the Company is exposed to global market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. The Company uses derivative instruments to manage its exposure to such risks and may elect to designate certain derivatives as hedging instruments under ASC 815, Derivatives and Hedging. The Company 12Table of Contentsformally documents all relationships between designated hedging instruments and hedged items as well as its risk management objectives and strategies for undertaking hedge transactions. The Company does not hold or issue derivatives for trading or speculative purposes.In accordance with ASC 815, the Company recognizes derivative instruments as either assets or liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and measures them at fair value. The Company manages its exposure to counterparty credit risk by establishing minimum credit standards, diversifying its counterparties, and monitoring its concentrations of credit. The Company’s credit risk counterparties are commercial banks with expertise in derivative financial instruments. The Company evaluates the impact of market risk on the fair value and cash flows of its derivative and other financial instruments by considering reasonably possible changes in interest rates and currency exchange rates. The Company continually monitors the creditworthiness of the customers to which it grants credit terms in the normal course of business. The terms and conditions of the Company’s credit sales are designed to mitigate or eliminate concentrations of credit risk with any single customer.13Table of ContentsForeign Currency Exchange Risk ManagementThe Company conducts business on a multinational basis in a wide variety of foreign currencies. Exposure to market risk for changes in foreign currency exchange rates arises from euro denominated external revenues, cross-border financing activities between subsidiaries, and foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities. The Company realizes its objective of preserving the economic value of non-functional currency denominated cash flows by initially hedging transaction exposures with natural offsets to the fullest extent possible and, once these opportunities have been exhausted, through foreign exchange forward and option contracts.The Company manages the exchange rate risk of anticipated euro denominated sales using put options, forward contracts, and participating forwards, all of which typically mature within twelve months of execution. The Company designates these derivative contracts as cash flow hedges. The realized gain or loss is then recorded as an adjustment to Net sales on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. As of June 30, 2018, and December 31, 2017, the notional amounts of the Company’s foreign exchange cash flow hedges were €402 million and €389 million, respectively. The Company has reviewed cash flow hedges for effectiveness and determined they are highly effective. The Company uses forward contracts, which are not designated as hedging instruments, to manage its exposures related to its Brazilian real, British pound, Canadian dollar, Czech koruna, Euro, Australian dollar, Swedish krona, Japanese yen, and Singapore dollars, Mexican Peso and Chinese Yuan denominated net assets. These forward contracts typically mature within one-month after execution. Monetary gains and losses on these forward contracts are recorded in income each quarter and are generally offset by the transaction gains and losses related to their net asset positions. See Note 8, Long-Term Debt. As a result, the Company is exposed to market risk associated with the variable interest rate payments on both term loans.The Company manages its exposure to changes in interest rates by utilizing interest rate swaps to hedge this exposure and to achieve a desired proportion of fixed versus floating-rate debt, based on current and projected market conditions. The Company does not enter into derivative instruments for trading or speculative purposes.14Table of ContentsIn December 2017, the Company entered into an $800 million forward long-term interest rate swap agreement to lock into a fixed LIBOR interest rate base for debt facilities subject to monthly interest payments, including Term Loan A, the Revolving Credit Facility and receivables financing facility. Under the terms of the agreement, $800 million in variable-rate debt will be swapped for a fixed interest rate with net settlement terms due effective in December 2018. The changes in fair value of these swaps are not designated as hedges and are recognized immediately as Interest expense, net on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.The Company previously had a floating-to-fixed interest rate swap, which was designated as a cash flow hedge. This swap was terminated and the hedge accounting treatment discontinued in 2014. The terminated swap has approximately $3 million remaining to be amortized through AOCI on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and subsequently reclassified into net earnings through June 2021. Approximately $2 million is expected to be amortized and expensed in 2018. There was less than $1 million expensed by the Company in the second quarter of 2018 and $1 million expensed for the six-month period ended June 30, 2018.The Company has three interest rate swaps previously entered into for the purpose of converting floating-to-fixed rate debt. The first swap was entered into with a syndicated group of commercial banks for the purpose of moving from floating-to-fixed rate debt. The second swap largely offsets the first swap, moving from fixed-to-floating rate debt. Both of these instruments are not designated as hedges with the changes in fair value recognized in Interest expense, net on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. The third swap entered into is an interest rate swap converting floating-to-fixed rate debt which was designated as a cash flow hedge and receives hedge accounting treatment. All three swaps have a termination date in June 2021.The changes in fair value of the active swap designated as a cash flow hedge are recognized in AOCI on the Consolidated Balance Sheets, with any ineffectiveness immediately recognized in earnings. The notional amount of the interest rate swaps effective in each year of the cash flow hedge relationships does not exceed the principal amount of Term Loan B, which is hedged. The Company has reviewed the interest rate swap hedges for effectiveness and determined they are 100% effective.At June 30, 2018, the Company estimated that approximately $1 million in losses on the forward interest rate swap designated as a cash flow hedge will be reclassified from AOCI on the Consolidated Balance Sheets into earnings during the next four quarters.The Company’s master netting and other similar arrangements with the respective counterparties allow for net settlement under certain conditions, which are designed to reduce credit risk by permitting net settlement with the same counterparty. These fair value amounts represent the estimated value at which the Company’s lenders could trade its debt within the financial markets and does not represent the settlement value of these long-term debt liabilities to the Company. The fair value of the long-term debt will continue to vary each period based on fluctuations in market interest rates, as well as changes to the Company’s credit ratings. This methodology resulted in a Level 2 classification in the fair value hierarchy.Credit FacilitiesOn May 31, 2018, the Company entered into Amendment No.1. Amendment No. In addition, as part of the Amendment No. 1, the Company entered into a partial early debt termination of $300 million and repricing of Term Loan B. Amendment No. 1 lowered the index rate spread for LIBOR loans from LIBOR + 200 bp to LIBOR + 175 bp.In accounting for the impact of Amendment No. 16Table of ContentsIn addition, the issuance of Amended Term Loan A and the increase to the revolving credit facility resulted in $2 million of one-time third party fees for arranger, legal, and other services, which were capitalized and will be amortized over the term of the credit facilities.As of June 30, 2018, the Term Loan A interest rate was 3.84%, and the Term Loan B interest rate was 4.06%. Borrowings under Term Loan A and B bear interest at a variable rate. Term Loan B borrowings are subject to a floor of 2.75%. Interest payments are payable monthly or quarterly on Term Loan A and quarterly on Term Loan B. The Company has entered into interest rate swaps to manage interest rate risk on Term Loan B. See Note 7, Derivative Instruments.Amendement No. 1 also requires the Company to prepay certain amounts in the event of certain circumstances or transactions. The Company may make prepayments against the Term Loans, in whole or in part, without premium or penalty. The borrowings under Amendment No. 1 will mature on July 27, 2021.The Revolving Credit Facility is available for working capital and other general corporate purposes including letters of credit. As of June 30, 2018, the Company had issued letters of credit totaling $5 million, which reduced funds available for other borrowings under the agreement to $795 million. The Revolving Credit Facility will mature and the related commitments will terminate on July 27, 2021.Borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility bear interest at a variable rate plus an applicable margin. As of June 30, 2018, the Revolving Credit Facility had an average interest rate of 3.91%. Interest payments are payable monthly or quarterly for the Revolving Credit Facility. The SPE utilizes the receivables financing facility in the normal course of business as part of its management of cash flows. Under its committed receivables financing facility, a subsidiary of the Company sells its domestically originated accounts receivables at fair value, on a revolving basis, to the SPE which was formed for the sole purpose of buying the receivables. The SPE, in turn, pledges a valid and perfected first-priority security interest in the pool of purchased receivables to a financial institution for borrowing purposes. The subsidiary retains an ownership interest in the pool of receivables that are sold to the SPE and services those receivables. Accordingly, the Company has determined that these transactions do not qualify for sale accounting under ASC 860, Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets, and has, therefore, accounted for the transactions as secured borrowings.At June 30, 2018, the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets included $419 million of receivables that were pledged and $118 million of associated liabilities. The receivables financing facility will mature on November 29, 2019.Borrowings under the receivables financing facility bear interest at a variable rate plus an applicable margin. As of June 30, 2018, the receivables financing facility had an average interest rate of 2.94% and requires monthly interest payments.Both the Revolving Credit Facility and receivables financing facility include terms and conditions that limit the incurrence of additional borrowings and require that certain financial ratios be maintained at designated levels. Advanced data capture products are warrantied from 1 to 5 years, depending on the product. Thermal printheads are warrantied for 6 months and battery-based products, such as location tags, are covered by a 90-day warranty. The Company currently believes that the outcomes of such proceedings, individually and in the aggregate, will not have a material adverse impact on its business, cash flows, financial position, or results of operations. Any legal proceedings are subject to inherent uncertainties, and the Company’s view of these matters and its potential effects may change in the future. The Company establishes an accrued liability for loss contingencies related to legal matters when the loss is both probable and estimable. In addition, for some matters for which a loss is probable or reasonably possible, an estimate of the amount of loss or range of loss is not possible, and we may be unable to estimate the possible loss or range of losses that could potentially result from the application of non-monetary remedies. A putative federal class action lawsuit, Waring v. Symbol Technologies, Inc., et al., was filed on August 16, 2005 against Symbol Technologies, Inc. and two of its former officers in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York by Robert Waring. The lead plaintiff alleges that it was damaged by the decline in the price of Symbol’s stock following certain purported corrective disclosures and seeks unspecified damages. The court has certified a class of investors that includes those that purchased Symbol common stock between March 12, 2004 and August 1, 2005. The parties completed fact and expert discovery. They also agreed to a schedule for the filing of dispositive motions, which the court so-ordered on February 12, 2018. However, by order entered on April 2, 2018, the court adjourned the deadlines for summary judgment briefing in light of the fact that the parties reached an agreement in principle to settle the matter at the mediation held on March 15, 2018. Additionally, in December 2017, the Company entered into a VDA with the State of Delaware. The Company has engaged an outside consultant to facilitate the assessment of the estimated liability that may result from these activities. As of June 30, 2018, no significant contingency reserve has been recorded as it has not progressed sufficiently in its assessment to quantify and record a contingency reserve for any unreported unclaimed property liabilities is ongoing. The 2018 Plan superseded and replaced the 2015 Plan on the approval date, except that the 2015 Plan shall remain in effect with respect 18Table of Contentsto outstanding awards under the 2015 Plan until such awards have been exercised, forfeited, canceled, expired or otherwise terminated in accordance with their terms. The 2018 plan provides for incentive compensation to the Company’s non-employee directors, officers and employees. A total of 3,800,000 shares are authorized for delivery under the 2018 Plan. The awards available under the 2015 Plan included SARs, RSAs, PSAs, Cash-settled Stock Appreciation Rights, RSUs, and PSUs. A total of 4 million shares were authorized for delivery under the 2015 Plan. Tax related benefits of $5 million were also recognized for the each of the six-month periods ended June 30, 2018 and July 1, 2017, respectively. Volatility is based on an average of the implied volatility in the open market and the annualized volatility of the Company’s stock price over its entire stock history. Grants in the table below include SARs that will be settled in the Class A common stock or cash. The total fair value of SARs vested during the period of June 30, 2018 and July 1, 2017 was $7 million and $6 million, respectively.The Company’s SARs are expensed straight-line over the vesting period of the related award, which is typically 4 years. The RSAs and PSAs hold voting rights and therefore are considered participating securities. The outstanding RSAs and PSAs are included as part of the Company’s Class A Common Stock outstanding. The RSAs and PSAs vest at each vesting date subject to restrictions such as continuous employment except in certain cases as set forth in each stock agreement. The Company’s restricted stock awards are expensed straight-line over the vesting period of the related award, which is typically 3 years. The RSAs granted beginning in 2018 will grade vest over the 3-year vesting period. Some awards, including those granted annually to non-employee directors as an equity retainer fee, were vested upon grant. PSAs targets are set based on certain Company-wide financial metrics. Compensation cost is calculated as the market date fair value on grant date multiplied by the number of shares granted.The Company also issues stock awards to non-employee directors. Each director receives an equity grant of shares every year during the month of May. The number of shares granted to each director is determined by dividing the value of the annual grant by the price of a share of common stock. During the first six months of 2018, there were 7,980 shares granted to non-employee directors compared to 12,488 shares in the first six months of prior year. The RSUs granted beginning in 2018 will grade vest over the 3-year vesting period. Compensation cost is calculated as the market date fair value on grant date multiplied by the number of share-equivalents granted. The fair value is remeasured at the end of each reporting period. Cash settlement payments for these awards of $2.0 million and $1.0 million were made during the six-months ended June 30, 2018 and July 1, 2017, respectively. Cash received from the exercise of non-qualified options during the six-months ended June 30, 2018 was less than $1 million compared to $3 million in the prior year period. The related tax benefit realized was $1 million during both the six-months ended June 30, 2018 and July 1, 2017. Employees may make purchases by cash or payroll deductions up to certain limits. The aggregate number of shares that may be purchased under this plan is 1,500,000 shares. At June 30, 2018, 869,514 shares were available for future purchase.Note 11 Income Taxes The Company’s effective tax rates for the three-month and six-month periods ended June 30, 2018 were 30.0% and 23.2%, respectively. The variance from the 2018 federal statutory rate of 21% for the three months and six months ended June 30, 2018 was attributable to increases related to foreign earnings subject to U.S. taxation, the U.S. impact of the Enterprise acquisition, partially offset by lower tax rates in foreign jurisdictions, and the generation of tax credits in the current year. The variance from the 2017 federal statutory rate of 35% for the three months and six months ended July 1, 2017 was attributable to lower tax rates in foreign jurisdictions, the generation of tax credits and benefits for share-based compensation, which were partially offset by the U.S. impact of the Enterprise acquisition and state deferred tax expense due to changes in our business operations. The Company’s effective tax rate for the six months ended July 1, 2017 was further reduced by benefits associated with an intercompany sale of intellectual property and a rate decrease in Singapore.Pre-tax earnings outside the United States are primarily generated in the United Kingdom, Singapore, and Luxembourg, with statutory rates of 19%, 17%, and 27%, respectively. During 2017, the Company received approval from the Singapore Economic Development Board for a tax rate of 10% with the Company’s commitment to make increased investments in Singapore. The Singapore incentivized rate expires on December 31, 2018.Quarterly, Management evaluates all jurisdictions based on historical pre-tax earnings and taxable income to determine the need for valuation allowances. Based on this analysis, a valuation allowance has been recorded for any jurisdictions where, in the Company’s judgment, tax benefits will not be realized.Uncertain Tax Positions The Company is currently undergoing U.S. Federal income tax audits for the years 2013 through 2015, as well as UK income tax years 2012 and 2014. The tax years 2004 through 2016 remain open to examination by multiple foreign and U.S. state taxing jurisdictions. The Company continues to believe its positions are supportable, however, the Company anticipates that $22 million of uncertain tax benefits may be disallowed within the next twelve months and has reflected this liability as current within the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets. During the second quarter of 2018, the Company recorded a $13 million charge related to increases in income tax uncertainties for prior year tax positions. Based on current operations, we estimate that the Company is subject to the Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income and the Deduction for 22Table of ContentsForeign-Derived Intangible Income provisions of the Act. We estimate that the new limitations which defer U.S. interest deductions in excess of 30% of Adjusted Taxable Income are not applicable. These impacts are included in the calculation of our annual estimated effective tax rate.Provisional amountsAt June 30, 2018, we continue to analyze the accounting for the tax effects of enactment of the Act. The Company remeasured U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the rates at which they are expected to reverse in the future, which is generally 21%. However, the remeasurement of deferred taxes requires further analysis regarding the state tax impacts of the remeasurement, the impact of the Act on the taxation of executive compensation arrangements, changes to tax capitalization provisions and other aspects of the Act that may impact our tax balances.The Company recorded a provisional amount of $36 million in the December 31, 2017 financial statements for the one-time transition tax. The Internal Revenue Service issued Notice 2018-26 on April 2, 2018, which required an additional $8 million of tax expense to be recorded in the quarter ended June 30, 2018, increasing the total provisional amount to $44 million. The Company utilized $10 million of deferred tax assets for income tax credits available to offset the one-time transition tax, and estimates its cash tax liability to be $34 million, that will be remitted over the next eight years in annual amounts ranging from $3 to $8 million.We continue to evaluate the transition charge based on guidance issued. The transition tax is based in part on the amount of those earnings held in cash and other specified assets. This calculation may change when we finalize the calculation of post-1986 foreign earnings and profit previously deferred from U.S. federal taxation and finalize the amounts held in cash or other specified assets. The Company earns a significant amount of its operating income outside of the U.S. The Company’s policy considers its U.S. investment in directly-owned foreign affiliates to be indefinitely reinvested. Under the Act, future unremitted foreign earnings will no longer be subject to tax when repatriated to its U.S. parent, but may be subject to withholding taxes of the payor affiliate country. Additionally, gains and losses on taxable dispositions of U.S.-owned foreign affiliates continue to be subject to U.S. tax.Note 12 Earnings per ShareBasic net earnings per share is calculated by dividing net income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted earnings per share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted average number of shares assuming dilution. Dilutive common shares outstanding is computed using the Treasury Stock method and in periods of income, reflects the additional shares that would be outstanding if dilutive stock options were exercised for common shares during the period. Outstanding options to purchase common shares were anti-dilutive and excluded from the earnings per share calculations of 87,310 and 701,272 for the six-month periods ended June 30, 2018 and July 1, 2017, respectively. These hedges are designated as cash flow hedges, and the Company defers income statement recognition of gains and losses until the hedged transaction occurs. See Note 7, Derivative Instruments for more details.•Foreign currency translation adjustments relate to the Company’s non-U.S. subsidiary companies that have designated a functional currency other than the U.S. dollar. The Company is required to translate the subsidiary functional currency financial statements to dollars using a combination of historical, period-end, and average foreign exchange rates. The CODM reviews adjusted operating income to assess segment profitability. Adjusted operating income excludes purchase accounting adjustments, amortization of intangible assets, acquisition and 24Table of Contentsintegration costs, and exit and restructuring costs. The reallocations relate primarily to information technology, marketing and human resources expenses. Prior year segment operating results have been recast for comparability with the current year presentation. For the quarter ended July 1, 2017, $2 million of operating expenses were reclassified from EVM to AIT. For the six-month period ended July 1, 2017, $5 million of operating expenses were reclassified from AIT to EVM. For the full year ended December 31, 2017, $14 million of operating expenses were reclassified from AIT to EVM. There was no impact to the Consolidated Financial Statements as a result of these reclassifications.Information regarding the Company’s operations by geographic area is contained in the following table. These amounts are reported in the geographic area of the destination of the final sale. On July 27, 2018, the Company and plaintiff executed an agreement resolving the lawsuit in its entirety. As a result, the Company recorded a $13 million pretax charge in the second quarter of 2018, which is reflected as a component of General and administrative expenses within the Consolidated Statements of Operations. 25Table of ContentsOn July 5, 2018, Zebra entered into a definitive agreement under which Zebra will acquire all outstanding common stock of Xplore Technologies Corporation for $6.00 per share in cash. Under the terms of the agreement, Zebra plans to effect the acquisition via a tender offer. The aggregate consideration of the transaction, including assumed indebtedness, is expected to be less than or equal to $90 million. Zebra expects to fund the transaction with a combination of cash on hand along with fully committed financing available under its Revolving Credit Facility. The transaction is subject to customary closing conditions and is expected to close in the third quarter of 2018. The tender offer was filed on July 17, 2018. We also provide a full range of services, including maintenance, technical support, repair, and managed services, including cloud-based subscriptions. End-users of our products and services include those in the retail, transportation and logistics, manufacturing, healthcare, hospitality, warehouse and distribution, energy and utilities, and education industries around the world. Our customers have traditionally benefited from proven solutions that increase productivity and improve efficiency and asset utilization. Its major product lines include barcode and card printers, supplies, services and location solutions. Its major product lines include mobile computing, data capture, RFID, and services. For the six-months ended June 30, 2018, the Company recorded $1,989 million of net sales in its Consolidated Statements of Operations, of which approximately 47% were attributable to North America; approximately 35% were attributable to EMEA; and other foreign locations accounted for the remaining 18%. AcquisitionOn July 5, 2018, Zebra entered into a definitive agreement under which Zebra will acquire all outstanding common stock of Xplore Technologies Corporation for $6.00 per share in cash. Under the terms of the agreement, Zebra plans to effect the acquisition via a tender offer. The aggregate consideration of the transaction, including assumed indebtedness, is expected to be less than or equal to $90 million. Zebra expects to fund the transaction with a combination of cash on hand along with fully committed financing available under its credit facility. The transaction is subject to customary closing conditions and is expected to close in the third quarter of 2018. The tender offer was filed on July 17, 2018. The acquired business will become part of our EVM segment.Legal SettlementDuring the second quarter of 2018, the Company began settlement discussions associated with a pending commercial lawsuit. On July 27, 2018, the Company and plaintiff executed an agreement resolving the lawsuit in its entirety. As a result, the 26Table of ContentsCompany recorded a $13 million pretax charge in the second quarter of 2018, which is reflected as a component of General and administrative expenses within the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Uncertain Tax PositionsThe Company is currently undergoing U.S. Federal income tax audits for the years 2013 through 2015, as well as UK income tax years 2012 and 2014. The tax years 2004 through 2016 remain open to examination by multiple foreign and U.S. state taxing jurisdictions. The Company continues to believe its positions are supportable, however, the Company anticipates that $22 million of uncertain tax benefits may be disallowed within the next twelve months and has reflected this liability as current within the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets. During the second quarter of 2018, the Company recorded a $13 million charge related to income tax uncertainties for prior year tax positions. Due to uncertainties in any tax audit or litigation outcome, the Company’s estimates of the ultimate settlement of uncertain tax positions may change and the actual tax benefits may differ significantly from the estimates.Impact of U.S. Tax ReformEnacted on December 22, 2017, the Act reduces the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, and requires companies to pay a one-time transition tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred. Based on current operations, we estimate that the Company is subject to the Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income and the Deduction for Foreign-Derived Intangible Income provisions of the Act. We estimate that the new limitations which defer U.S. interest deductions in excess of 30% of Adjusted Taxable Income are not applicable. These impacts are included in the calculation of our annual estimated effective tax rate.Provisional amountsAt June 30, 2018, we continue to analyze the accounting for the tax effects of enactment of the Act. The Company remeasured U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the rates at which they are expected to reverse in the future, which is generally 21%. However, the remeasurement of deferred taxes requires further analysis regarding the state tax impacts of the remeasurement, the impact of the Act on the taxation of executive compensation arrangements, changes to tax capitalization provisions and other aspects of the Act that may impact our tax balances. The Company recorded a provisional amount of $36 million in the December 31, 2017 financial statements for the one-time transition tax. The Internal Revenue Service issued Notice 2018-26 on April 2, 2018, which required an additional $8 million of tax expense to be recorded in the quarter ended June 30, 2018, increasing the total provisional amount to $44 million. Foreign currency translation impact represents the difference in results that are attributable to fluctuations in the currency exchange rates used to convert the results for businesses where the functional currency is not the U.S. dollar. This impact is calculated by translating, for certain currencies, the current period results at the currency exchange rates used in the comparable prior year period, rather than the exchange rates in effect during the current period. In addition, we exclude the impact of the company’s foreign currency hedging program in both the current and prior year periods.Second quarter 2018 compared to second quarter 2017 Net sales increased by $116 million or 12.9% compared with the prior year period, reflecting growth in EMEA, North America, and Asia-Pacific. The increase in net sales was primarily due to higher sales of data capture, barcode printing, and mobile computing products. Net sales growth was also positively impacted by currency changes, primarily in the EMEA region. Consolidated Organic Net Sales growth was 10.6%.28Table of ContentsGross margin increased to 46.6% in the current period compared to 45.9% in the prior year period. Gross margin improvement included favorable foreign currency changes and was driven by higher margins in EVM, partially offset by a slight decline in AIT margins.Operating expenses for the quarter ended June 30, 2018 and July 1, 2017, were $347 million and $353 million, or 34.3% and 39.4% of net sales, respectively. The reduction in operating expenses was primarily due to lower amortization expense and acquisition and integration charges being partially offset by higher compensation costs, including the impact of higher incentive-based compensation associated with financial performance as well as a $13 million pretax charge related to a legal settlement included within general and administrative expense in the current year. The lower amortization expense results from certain intangible assets that became fully amortized in the third quarter of fiscal 2017. Operating income increased 115.5% to $125 million for the current period compared to $58 million for the prior year period. The increase was due to higher sales and gross profit and lower operating expenses.Total Other expenses, net was $25 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2018, as compared to $39 million in the prior year quarter. The decrease versus the prior year quarter was primarily driven by a $17 million decrease in interest expense due to a $5 million gain from interest rate swaps, lower outstanding debt and interest rates, being partially offset by $7 million of accelerated debit issuance cost amortization and third-party fees related to debt restructuring activities in the current period.In the quarter ending June 30, 2018, the Company recognized tax expense of $30 million compared to an expense of $2 million for the prior year quarter. The Company’s effective tax rates for the three-month periods ended June 30, 2018 and July 1, 2017 were 30.0% and 10.5%, respectively. The increase in the effective rate in 2018 versus the prior year is primarily due to discrete tax items offset by the impacts of U.S. Tax Reform.Year to date 2018 compared to year to date 2017Net sales increased by $228 million or 12.9% compared with the prior year period, reflecting growth across all regions, most notably EMEA, North America, and Asia-Pacific. The increase in net sales was primarily due to higher sales of mobile computing, barcode printing and data capture products. Net sales growth was also positively impacted by currency changes, primarily in the EMEA region. Consolidated Organic Net Sales growth was 10.2%.Gross margin increased to 47.1% in the current period compared to 46.1% in the prior year period. Gross margin improvement included favorable foreign currency changes and was driven by higher margins in both the EVM and AIT segments primarily due to favorable business mix and improved business costs.Operating expenses for the period ended June 30, 2018 and July 1, 2017, were $668 million and $714 million, or 33.6% and 40.5% of net sales, respectively. The reduction in operating expenses was primarily due to lower amortization expense and acquisition and integration charges being partially offset by higher compensation costs, including the impact of higher incentive-based compensation associated with financial performance as well as a $13 million pretax charge related to a legal settlement included within general and administrative expense in the current year. The lower amortization expense results from certain intangible assets that became fully amortized in the third quarter of fiscal 2017. Operating income increased 174.5% to $269 million for the current period compared to $98 million for the prior year period. The increase was primarily due to higher sales and gross profit and lower operating expenses.Total Other expenses, net was $36 million for the period ended June 30, 2018, as compared to $81 million in the prior year period. The decrease versus the prior year period was primarily driven by a decrease in Interest expense, net of $47 million resulting from an $18 million gain from interest rate swaps, lower outstanding debt and interest rates, being partially offset by $7 million of accelerated debit issuance cost amortization and third party fees related to debt restructuring activities in the current period.For the six-months ending June 30, 2018, the Company recognized a tax expense of $54 million compared to a tax benefit of $8 million for the prior year period. The increase in the effective tax rate in 2018 versus the prior year is primarily due to discrete tax items offset by the impacts of U.S. Tax Reform. See Note 11, Income Taxes of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.Results of Operations by Segment The following commentary should be read in conjunction with the financial results of each operating business segment as detailed in Note 14, Segment Information in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Foreign currency translation impact represents the difference in results that are attributable to fluctuations in the currency exchange rates used to convert the results for businesses where the functional currency is not the U.S. dollar. This impact is calculated by translating, for certain currencies, the current period results at the currency exchange rates used in the comparable prior year period, rather than the exchange rates in effect during the current period. In addition, we exclude the impact of the company’s foreign currency hedging program in both the current and prior year periods.Second quarter 2018 compared to second quarter 2017 Net sales for AIT increased $38 million or 12.1% compared to the prior year period. The increase in net sales was primarily due to higher sales of barcode printing products and supplies. Barcode printer growth was broad based across all major product lines and primarily within North America and EMEA regions. Net sales growth was also positively impacted by currency changes, primarily in the EMEA region. AIT Organic Net Sales growth was 9.9%.Gross margin decreased to 49.3% in the current period compared to 49.5% in the prior year period. The decrease primarily related to higher transitional costs incurred to insource our North America support services as well as a reduction of reserves in the prior year related to price concessions on certain product sales in China. These factors more than offset favorable product mix and the positive impact of currency changes.Operating income for the period increased 26.2% primarily due to higher sales and gross profit.Year to date 2018 compared to year to date 201730Table of ContentsNet sales for AIT increased $68 million or 10.7% compared to the prior year period. The increase in net sales was primarily due to higher sales of barcode printing products. Barcode printer growth was broad based across all major product lines and primarily within North America, EMEA, and Asia-Pacific regions. Net sales growth was also positively impacted by currency changes, primarily in the EMEA region. AIT Organic Net sales growth was 8.1%.Gross margin increased to 50.6% in the current period compared to 49.9% for the prior year period. Foreign currency translation impact represents the difference in results that are attributable to fluctuations in the currency exchange rates used to convert the results for businesses where the functional currency is not the U.S. dollar. This impact is calculated by translating, for certain currencies, the current period results at the currency exchange rates used in the comparable prior year period, rather than the exchange rates in effect during the current period. In addition, the Company excludes the impact of the company’s foreign currency hedging program in both the current and prior year periods.Second quarter 2018 compared to second quarter 2017 Net sales for EMV increased $77 million or 13.2% compared to prior year period. The increase in net sales was primarily attributable to strong global sales in both data capture and mobile computing products. Net sales growth was also positively impacted by currency changes, primarily in the EMEA region. EVM Organic Net Sales growth was 10.9%.Gross margin increased to 45.2% in the current period compared to 44.0% in the prior year period. The increase was primarily due to favorable business mix and the positive impact of currency changes.Operating income for the current period increased 4.3% due to higher sales and gross profit that were partially offset by higher operating expenses.Year to date 2018 compared to year to date 201731Table of ContentsNet sales for EVM increased $158 million or 14.0% compared to prior year period. The increase in net sales was primarily attributable to strong sales of data capture and mobile computing products, in EMEA, North America, and Asia-Pacific regions. Net sales growth was also positively impacted by currency changes, primarily in the EMEA region. EVM Organic Net Sales growth was 11.3%.Gross margin increased to 45.2% in the current period compared to 44.1% in the prior year period. The increase was primarily due to favorable business mix and the positive impact of currency changes.Operating income for the current period increased 29.7% due to higher sales and gross profit that were partially offset by higher operating expenses.Liquidity and Capital Resources The primary factors that influence our liquidity include, but are not limited to, the amount and timing of our revenues, cash collections from our customers, capital expenditures, repatriation of foreign cash and investments, and acquisitions of third-parties. Management believes that our existing capital resources and funds generated from operations are sufficient to meet anticipated capital requirements and service our indebtedness. The increase was primarily due to higher net income, lower cash payments for income taxes and interest as well as improved inventory management that was partially offset by timing of accounts receivable collections as well as unfavorable changes in accrued liabilities resulting from higher incentive compensation payments as compared to the prior year period.•The increase in net cash used in investing activities was driven by higher capital expenditures. •Net cash used in financing activities during the six-month period ended June 30, 2018 consisted primarily of net debt repayments of $235 million compared to $240 million in the six-month period ended July 1, 2017. These fair value amounts represent the estimated value at which the Company’s lenders could trade its debt within the financial markets and does not represent the settlement value of these long-term debt liabilities to the Company. The fair value of the long-term debt will continue to vary each period based on fluctuations in market interest rates, as well as changes to the Company’s credit ratings. Amendment No. In addition, as part of the Amendment No. 1, the Company entered into a partial early debt termination of $300 million and repricing of Term Loan B. Amendment No. 1 lowered the index rate spread for LIBOR loans from LIBOR + 200 bp to LIBOR + 175 bp.In accounting for the impact of Amendment No. In addition, the issuance of Amended Term Loan A and the increase to the revolving credit facility resulted in $2 million of one-time third party fees for arranger, legal, and other services, which were capitalized and will be amortized over the term of the credit facilities.As of June 30, 2018, the Term Loan A interest rate was 3.84%, and the Term Loan B interest rate was 4.06%. Borrowings under Term Loan A and B bear interest at a variable rate. Term Loan B borrowings are subject to a floor of 2.75%. Interest payments are payable monthly or quarterly on Term Loan A and quarterly on Term Loan B. The Company has entered into interest rate swaps to manage interest rate risk on Term Loan B. See Note 7, Derivative Instruments.Amendement No. 1 also requires the Company to prepay certain amounts in the event of certain circumstances or transactions. The Company may make prepayments against the Term Loans, in whole or in part, without premium or penalty. The borrowings under Amendment No. 1 will mature on July 27, 2021.The Revolving Credit Facility is available for working capital and other general corporate purposes including letters of credit. As of June 30, 2018, the Company had issued letters of credit totaling $5 million, which reduced funds available for other borrowings under the agreement to $795 million. The Revolving Credit Facility will mature and the related commitments will terminate on July 27, 2021.Borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility bear interest at a variable rate plus an applicable margin. As of June 30, 2018, the Revolving Credit Facility had an average interest rate of 3.91%. Interest payments are payable monthly or quarterly for the Revolving Credit Facility. The SPE utilizes the receivables financing facility in the normal course of business as part of its management of cash flows. Under its committed 33Table of Contentsreceivables financing facility, a subsidiary of the Company sells its domestically originated accounts receivables at fair value, on a revolving basis, to the SPE which was formed for the sole purpose of buying the receivables. The SPE, in turn, pledges a valid and perfected first-priority security interest in the pool of purchased receivables to a financial institution for borrowing purposes. The subsidiary retains an ownership interest in the pool of receivables that are sold to the SPE and services those receivables. Accordingly, the Company has determined that these transactions do not qualify for sale accounting under ASC 860, Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets, and has, therefore, accounted for the transactions as secured borrowings.At June 30, 2018, the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets included $419 million of receivables that were pledged and $118 million of associated liabilities. The receivables financing facility will mature on November 29, 2019.Borrowings under the receivables financing facility bear interest at a variable rate plus an applicable margin. As of June 30, 2018, the receivables financing facility had an average interest rate of 2.94% and requires monthly interest payments.Both the Revolving Credit Facility and receivables financing facility include terms and conditions that limit the incurrence of additional borrowings and require that certain financial ratios be maintained at designated levels. The largest customers accounted for 34.1%, 22.1%, and 19.7% of outstanding accounts receivable. No other customer accounted for 10% or more of total net sales during these periods. Safe HarborForward-looking statements contained in this filing are subject to the safe harbor created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and are highly dependent upon a variety of important factors, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in such forward-looking statements. When used in this document and documents referenced, the words “anticipate,” “believe,” “intend,” “estimate,” “will,” and “expect” and similar expressions as they relate to the Company or its management are intended to identify such forward-looking statements but are not the exclusive means of identifying these statements. The forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the Company’s financial outlook for the full year of 2018. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, forecasts and assumptions and are subject to the risks and uncertainties inherent in the Company’s industry, market conditions, general domestic and international economic conditions, and other factors. We undertake no obligation, other than as may be required by law, to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, changed circumstances, or any other reason after the date of this report. Non-GAAP measuresThe Company has provided reconciliations of the supplemental non-GAAP financial measures, as defined under the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission, presented herein to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP.These supplemental non-GAAP financial measures, Consolidated Organic Net Sales Growth, AIT Organic Net sales growth, and EVM Organic Net sales growth, are presented because our management has evaluated our financial results both including and excluding the adjusted items or the effects of foreign currency translation, as applicable, and believe that the supplemental non-GAAP financial measures presented provide additional perspective and insights when analyzing the core operating performance of our business from period to period and trends in our historical operating results. These supplemental non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered superior to, as a substitute for or as an alternative to, and should be considered in conjunction with, the GAAP financial measures presented.Item 3.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market RiskThere were no material changes in the Company’s market risk during the quarter ended June 30, 2018. For additional information on market risk, refer to the “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” section of the Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.In the normal course of business, portions of the Company’s operations are subject to fluctuations in currency values. The Company manages these risks using derivative financial instruments. Our management assessed the effectiveness of our disclosure controls as of June 30, 2018. Based on this assessment and those criteria, our management believes that, as of June 30, 2018, our disclosure controls are effective.Changes in Internal Controls over Financial Reporting During the second quarter ended June 30, 2018, there have been no changes in our internal controls that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal controls over financial reporting.Inherent Limitations on the Effectiveness of Controls The Company’s management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that the disclosure controls and procedures or the internal controls over financial reporting will prevent all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the Company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Controls can also be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls is based in part on certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Projections of any evaluation of controls effectiveness to future periods are subject to risks. Over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures.36Table of ContentsPART II - OTHER INFORMATION Item 1.Legal ProceedingsSee Note 9, Commitments and Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report.Item 1A.Risk FactorsIn addition to the other information included in this report, you should carefully consider the factors discussed in Part I, “Item 1A. Risk Factors” in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, and the factors identified under “Safe Harbor” at the end of Item 2 of Part I of the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, which could materially affect our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations. The risks described in the Annual Report are not the only risks facing the Company. There have been no material changes to the risk factors included in our Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 2017, other than as described below.The impact of changes in customs duties and trade policies in the United States and corresponding actions by other countries in which the Company does business could adversely affect our financial performance. The U.S. government has imposed customs duties on various imports from China that are intended to address trade imbalances and encourage increased production in the United States. These actions will result in increased customs duties and will likely result in the renegotiation of some U.S. trade agreements. In response to such actions, China has instituted customs duties on certain U.S. goods. Other governments could also institute customs duties on U.S. goods similar to China’s actions in response to the U.S. government’s customs duties. The Company imports a significant percentage of our products into the United States and China, and an increase in customs duties with respect to these imports could negatively impact the Company’s financial performance. Such customs duties also may cause the U.S.’ trading partners, other than China, to take actions with respect to U.S. imports or U.S. investment activities in their respective countries. Any potential changes in trade policies in the United States and the potential corresponding actions by other countries in which the Company does business could adversely affect the Company’s financial performance. Given the level of uncertainty over which provisions will be enacted, the Company cannot predict with certainty the impact of the proposals.Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of ProceedsTreasury SharesWe did not purchase shares of Zebra Class A common stock during the period ending June 30, 2018 as part of the purchase plan program.In November 2011, our Board authorized the purchase of up to an additional 3,000,000 shares under the purchase plan program and the maximum number of shares that may yet be purchased under the program is 665,475.