Refer to Note 1. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting PoliciesBasis of Presentation. The results of operations for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 shown in this report are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for the full year ending December 29, 2018. In the opinion of the Company’s management, the information contained herein reflects all adjustments necessary for a fair presentation of the Company’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows. All such adjustments are of a normal, recurring nature. The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 30, 2017.The Company uses a 52 or 53 week fiscal year ending on the last Saturday in December. The three and six months ended June 30, 2018 and July 1, 2017 each consisted of 13 weeks and 26 weeks, respectively.Principles of Consolidation. The condensed consolidated financial statements include the Company’s accounts and those of its wholly-owned subsidiaries. Upon consolidation, all significant inter-company accounts and transactions are eliminated.Revenue Recognition. Revenue is recognized when a customer obtains control of promised goods or services and is recognized in an amount that reflects the consideration which the Company expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services. Sales, value-added, and other taxes collected concurrently with the provision of goods or services are excluded from revenue. Shipping and handling costs associated with product sales are included in cost of sales. Certain OEMs may be entitled to rights of return and rebates under OEM agreements. The Company also sells to distributors under terms allowing the majority of distributors certain rights of return, and price protection on unsold merchandise held by them. The Company estimates the amount of variable consideration under OEM and distributors’ arrangements and, accordingly, records a provision for product returns, allowances for price protection and rebates based on actual historical experience and any known events.The Company offers incentive programs to certain of its customers, including cooperative advertising, marketing promotions, volume based incentives and special pricing arrangements. Accordingly, the Company recognizes revenue for the entire consideration of the arrangement upon transfer of control of the IP license to the customer.Customers are generally required to pay for products and services within the Company’s standard contractual terms, which are typically net 30 to 60 days. The Company has determined that it does not have significant financing components in its contracts with customers.7Refer to Note 3 Supplemental Balance Sheet Information, for further information regarding unearned revenue.Recently Adopted Accounting StandardsRevenue from Contracts with Customers. Under the new standard, revenue is recognized when a customer obtains control of promised goods or services and is recognized in an amount that reflects the consideration which the entity expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services. In addition, the new standard requires disclosure of the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. The FASB has issued several amendments to the new standard, including clarification on accounting for licenses of intellectual property and identifying performance obligations. The Company adopted the new standard in the first quarter of 2018, using the full retrospective method, which required the Company to adjust prior reporting periods presented. Semi-custom products under non-cancellable purchases orders and have no alternative use to the Company at contract inception, are recognized as revenue, based on the value of the inventory and expected margin, over the time of production of the products by the Company, rather than upon shipment. For a development and intellectual property licensing agreement executed in 2017, the Company will recognize revenue for the entire consideration upon transfer of control of an IP license to the customer in a future period. Previously, the agreement resulted in the reduction to research and development expenses in 2017 for development work as the expenses were incurred and would have resulted in licensing revenue to be recognized in periods beyond 2017 upon completion of the deliverables, based on a fair value allocation of the consideration received. SAB 118 allows disclosure that timely determination of some or all of the income tax effects from the Tax Reform Act are incomplete by the due date of the financial statements and if possible to provide a reasonable estimate. The Company has accounted for the tax effects of the Tax Reform Act under the guidance of SAB 118, on a provisional basis. The accounting estimate for certain income tax effects is 9incomplete, but the Company has determined reasonable estimates for those effects and has recorded provisional amounts in the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements as of June 30, 2018 and December 30, 2017.Stock Compensation. The award’s vesting conditions; and3. The award’s classification as an equity or liability instrument.ASU 2017-09 is effective for annual and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2017 on a prospective basis, and early adoption is permitted. The Company adopted this guidance in the first quarter of 2018 and the guidance did not have an impact on its consolidated financial statements.Income Taxes. This amends current GAAP which prohibits recognition of current and deferred income taxes for all types of intra-entity asset transfers until the asset has been sold to an outside party. ASU 2016-16 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods therein with early adoption permitted. Upon adoption, the Company must apply a modified retrospective transition approach through a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the period of adoption. The Company adopted this guidance in the first quarter of 2018 and the guidance did not have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements.Statement of Cash Flows. ASU 2016-15 and ASU 2016-18 are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within those fiscal years, provided that all of the amendments are adopted in the same period. The amendments will be applied using a retrospective transition method to each period presented. The Company adopted these guidances in the first quarter of 2018, which although resulted in the additional presentation of restricted cash balances on the statement of cash flows for each period presented, the guidances did not have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements.Financial Instruments. The ASU also impacts financial liabilities under the fair value option and the presentation and disclosure requirements for financial instruments. In addition, the FASB clarified guidance related to the valuation allowance assessment when recognizing deferred tax assets resulting from unrealized losses on available-for-sale debt securities. Entities have to assess the realizability of such deferred tax assets in combination with the entities’ other deferred tax assets. ASU 2016-01 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017 and for interim periods within those fiscal years. In the first quarter of 2018, the Company adopted the measurement alternative, which applies ASU 2016-01 prospectively, for its equity investments that do not have readily determinable fair values. In addition, the Company recorded $2 million of a cumulative effect adjustment to retained earnings for its equity securities that have readily determinable fair values. The Company adopted this guidance in the first quarter of 2018 and the guidance did not have a material impact on its financial statements.Recently Issued Accounting StandardsReporting Comprehensive Income. The new guidance may be applied retrospectively to each period in which the effect of the Tax Reform Act is recognized in the period of adoption. The Company must adopt this guidance for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018 and interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted for periods for which financial statements have not yet been issued or made available for issuance, including the period the Tax Reform Act was enacted. The guidance, when adopted, will require new disclosures regarding a 10company’s accounting policy for releasing the tax effects in AOCI and permit the company the option to reclassify to retained earnings the tax effects resulting from the Tax Reform Act that are stranded in AOCI. The Company is currently evaluating how to apply the new guidance and has not determined whether it will elect to reclassify stranded amounts and is currently estimating the stranded AOCI amounts.Leases. ASU 2016-02 requires lessees to recognize lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet, while recognizing expenses on the income statements in a manner similar to current guidance. ASU 2016-02 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years, with early adoption permitted. The Company did not elect to early adopt this standard and therefore the standard will be effective for the Company in the first quarter of 2019. ASU 2016-02 requires that leases be recognized and measured as of the earliest period presented, using a modified retrospective approach, with all periods presented being adjusted and presented under the new standard. The Company plans to adopt the new standard using the optional adoption method and thereby not adjust comparative financial statements.The Company currently believes the most significant impact upon adoption will be the recognition of right-of-use assets and lease liabilities on the Company's consolidated balance sheets for its operating leases. The Company has established a cross-functional team of key stakeholders for implementing the new standard and is continuing the inventory of its real estate and equipment leases and the implementation of a lease accounting system. As part of the Company’s assessment and implementation plan, the Company is evaluating and implementing changes to its policies, procedures and controls.There were no other significant updates to the recently issued accounting standards as disclosed in the Company’s Form 10-K for fiscal year 2017.Although there are several other new accounting pronouncements issued or proposed by the FASB, the Company does not believe any of these accounting pronouncements has had or will have material impacts on its consolidated financial position or operating results.NOTE 2. GLOBALFOUNDRIESWafer Supply Agreement. The WSA Sixth Amendment modified certain terms of the WSA applicable to wafers for the Company’s microprocessor, graphics processor and semi-custom products for a five-year period from January 1, 2016 to December 31, 2020. The Company and GF also agreed to establish a comprehensive framework for technology collaboration for the 7nm technology node.The WSA Sixth Amendment also provides the Company a limited waiver with rights to contract with another wafer foundry with respect to certain products in the 14nm and 7nm technology nodes and gives the Company greater flexibility in sourcing foundry services across its product portfolio. In consideration for these rights, the Company agreed to pay GF $100 million in installments starting in the fourth quarter of 2016 through the third quarter of 2017. As of December 30, 2017, the Company had paid GF $100 million in aggregate. Starting in 2017 and continuing through 2020, the Company also agreed to make quarterly payments to GF based on the volume of certain wafers purchased from another wafer foundry. Further, for each calendar year during the term of the WSA Sixth Amendment, the Company and GF agreed to annual wafer purchase targets that increase from 2016 through 2020. If the Company does not meet the annual wafer purchase target for any calendar year, the Company will be required to pay to GF a portion of the difference between the Company’s actual wafer purchases and the wafer purchase target for that year. The annual targets were established based on the Company’s business and market expectations and took into account the limited waiver it received for certain products. As of June 30, 2018, the Company expects to meet its 2018 wafer purchase target.The Company and GF also agreed on fixed pricing for wafers purchased during 2016 and established a framework to agree on annual wafer pricing for the years 2017 to 2020. The Company and GF have agreed on pricing for wafer purchases for 2018.The Company’s total purchases from GF related to wafer manufacturing, research and development activities and other for the quarters ended June 30, 2018 and July 1, 2017 were $383 million and $266 million, respectively. The Company’s total purchases from GF related to wafer manufacturing, research and development activities and other for the six months ended June 30, 2018 11and July 1, 2017 were $781 million and $442 million, respectively. Included in the total purchases for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 are amounts related to the volume of certain wafers purchased from another wafer foundry, as agreed to by the Company and GF under the WSA Sixth Amendment. As of June 30, 2018 and December 30, 2017, the amount of prepayment and other receivables related to GF was $8 million and $27 million, respectively, included in Prepayment and other receivables—related parties on the Company’s condensed consolidated balance sheets. As of June 30, 2018 and December 30, 2017, the amount of payable to GF was $269 million and $241 million, respectively, included in Payables to related parties on the Company’s condensed consolidated balance sheets. Warrant Agreement. The warrant is exercisable in whole or in part until February 29, 2020. GF, WCH and Mubadala Tech are wholly-owned subsidiaries of Mubadala.12NOTE 3. Supplemental Balance Sheet Information Accounts Receivable, netAs of June 30, 2018 and December 30, 2017, Accounts receivable, net included unbilled accounts receivable of $349 million and $75 million, respectively. Unbilled accounts receivable represents revenue recognized prior to invoicing. The unbilled receivable primarily represents inventory of semi-custom products under non-cancellable purchase orders that have no alternative use to the Company at contract inception. Accordingly, revenue is recognized based on the value of the inventory and the expected margin, over the time of production of the products by the Company. The unearned revenue is associated with any combination of development services, IP licensing and product revenue. The Company expects to recognize $164 million in the next 12 months, and the remainder thereafter. As permitted under ASC 606, the Company has not disclosed the comparative amounts as of December 30, 2017. The revenue allocated to remaining performance obligations did not include amounts which have an original expected duration of less than one year. 14NOTE 4. Bhd. Bhd. As a result of the sale, TFME’s affiliates own 85% of the equity interests in the ATMP JV while certain of the Company’s subsidiaries own the remaining 15%. The Company has no obligation to fund the ATMP JV.The Company accounts for its equity interests in the ATMP JV under the equity method of accounting due to its significant influence over the ATMP JV. As of June 30, 2018 and December 30, 2017, the carrying value of the Company’s investment in the ATMP JV was approximately $57 million and $58 million, respectively. The ATMP JV is a related party of the Company. The Company currently pays the ATMP JV for ATMP services on a cost-plus basis. The Company assists the ATMP JV in its management of certain raw material inventory. The purchases from and resales back to the ATMP JV of the inventory under inventory management is reported within purchases and resales with the ATMP JV and does not impact the Company’s Statement of Operations. The Company’s total purchases from the ATMP JV during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 amounted to approximately $143 million and $278 million, respectively. The Company’s total purchases from the ATMP JV during the three and six months ended July 1, 2017 amounted to approximately $105 million and $201 million, respectively. As of June 30, 2018 and December 30, 2017, the amount payable to the ATMP JV was $206 million and $171 million, respectively, included in Payables to related parties on the Company’s condensed consolidated balance sheets. The Company’s resales back to the ATMP JV during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 amounted to approximately $13 million and $19 million, respectively, and there were no resales back to the ATMP JV for the comparative periods of 2017. As of June 30, 2018 and December 30, 2017, the Company had receivables from ATMP JV of $16 million and $3 million, respectively, included in Prepayment and other receivables—related parties on the Company’s condensed consolidated balance sheets. During the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, the Company recorded $1 million and $2 million, respectively, in Equity loss in investee on its condensed consolidated statements of operations, which included certain expenses incurred by the Company on behalf of the ATMP JV. During the three and six months ended July 1, 2017, the Company recorded $3 million and $5 million, respectively, in Equity loss in investee on its condensed consolidated statements of operations, which included certain expenses incurred by the Company on behalf of the ATMP JV. NOTE 5. The Company’s equity share in China JV1 and China JV2 is a majority and minority interest, respectively, funded by the Company’s contribution of certain of its patents. The JV Partner is responsible for the initial and on-going financing of the THATIC JV’s operations. The Company has no obligations to fund the THATIC JV. The Company concluded the China JV1 and China JV2 are not operating joint ventures and are variable interest entities due to their reliance on on-going financing by the JV Partner. The Company determined that it is not the primary beneficiary of either China JV1 or China JV2, as the Company does not have unilateral power to direct selling and marketing, manufacturing and product development activities related to the THATIC JV’s products. Accordingly, the Company does not consolidate either of these entities and therefore accounts for its investments in the THATIC JV under the equity method of accounting. The THATIC JV is a related party of the Company. The Company also expects to receive a royalty based on the sales of the THATIC JV’s products to be developed on the basis of such Licensed IP. The Company also provided certain engineering and technical support to the THATIC JV in connection with the product development. In addition, from time to time, the Company enters into certain agreements with the THATIC JV to provide other services primarily related to research and development.The Company recognized income related to the Licensed IP over the period commencing upon delivery of the first Licensed IP milestone through the date of the milestone that required the Company’s continuing involvement in the product development process, which was completed at the end of the second quarter of 2017. Royalty payments will be recognized in income once 15earned. The Company classifies Licensed IP income and royalty income, associated with the February 2016 agreement, as licensing gain within other operating income. The Company will recognize revenue associated with the March 2017 Development and IP agreement upon the delivery of the IP. During the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, the Company recognized zero as licensing gain associated with the Licensed IP for both periods, and zero associated with other services for both periods. No royalty income was recognized by the Company during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 under the Licensed IP or Development and IP agreements. During the three and six months ended July 1, 2017, the Company recognized $25 million and $52 million, respectively, as licensing gain associated with the Licensed IP, and zero associated with other services for both periods. During the three and six months ended July 1, 2017, no revenue was recognized for both periods, associated with the Development and IP agreement. No royalty income was recognized by the Company during the three and six months ended July 1, 2017 under both the Licensed IP and Development and IP agreements.The Company’s share in the net losses of the THATIC JV for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 was not material and is not recorded in the Company’s condensed consolidated statements of operations since the Company is not obligated to fund the THATIC JV’s losses in excess of the Company’s investment in the THATIC JV, which was zero as of June 30, 2018. The Company’s receivable from the THATIC JV for these agreements was $5 million and $3 million as of June 30, 2018 and December 30, 2017, respectively, included in Accounts receivable, net and Prepayment and other receivables—related parties on its condensed consolidated balance sheets. As of June 30, 2018, the total assets and liabilities of the THATIC JV were not material.NOTE 6. The 2.125% Notes are general unsecured senior obligations of the Company. The interest is payable semi-annually in March and September of each year, commencing in March 2017. As of June 30, 2018, the Company had $805 million principal amount outstanding. The 2.125% Notes mature on September 1, 2026. On or after June 1, 2026 until the close of business on the business day immediately preceding the maturity date, holders may convert their notes at any time, regardless of the foregoing circumstances. Upon conversion, the Company will pay or deliver cash, shares of the Company’s common stock or a combination of cash and shares of the Company’s common stock, at the Company’s election. The Company’s current intent is to deliver shares of its common stock upon conversion of the 2.125% Notes. This interest rate was based on the interest rates of similar liabilities at the time of issuance that did not have associated conversion features. The 6.75% Notes are general unsecured senior obligations of the Company. Interest is payable on March 1 and September 1 of each year beginning September 1, 2014 until the maturity date of March 1, 2019. During the first six months of 2018, the Company repurchased $14 million in aggregate principal amount of its 6.75% Notes in cash. The 7.50% Notes are general unsecured senior obligations of the Company. Interest is payable on February 15 and August 15 of each year beginning February 15, 2013 until the maturity date of August 15, 2022. As of June 30, 2018, the outstanding aggregate principal amount of the 7.50% Notes was $347 million. The 7.00% Notes are general unsecured senior obligations of the Company. Interest is payable on January 1 and July 1 of each year beginning January 171, 2015 until the maturity date of July 1, 2024. As of June 30, 2018, the outstanding aggregate principal amount of the 7.00% Notes was $310 million.Potential Repurchase of Outstanding Notes The Company may elect to purchase or otherwise retire the 6.75% Notes, 7.50% Notes, 7.00% Notes and 2.125% Notes with cash, stock or other assets from time to time in open market or privately negotiated transactions, either directly or through intermediaries, or by tender offer when the Company believes the market conditions are favorable. Borrowings are limited up to a certain amount of eligible accounts receivable, as determined in accordance with the Agreement. The size of the commitment under the Secured Revolving Line of Credit may be increased by up to an aggregate amount of $200 million. The commitments under the Secured Revolving Line of Credit are available through March 21, 2022. The Borrowers are subject to commitment fees and letter of credit facility fees. The Loan Parties are required to comply with certain covenants under the Agreement. As of June 30, 2018 and December 30, 2017, the Secured Revolving Line of Credit had an outstanding loan balance of $70 million, at an interest rate of 5.50% and 4.75%, respectively. As of June 30, 2018, the Company had $31 million of letters of credit outstanding and up to $339 million available for future borrowings under the Secured Revolving Line of Credit. The Company reports its intra-period changes in its revolving credit balance on a net basis in its condensed consolidated statement of cash flows as the Company intends the period of the borrowings to be brief, repaying borrowed amounts within 90 days. As of June 30, 2018, the Loan Parties were in compliance with all required covenants under the Agreement.NOTE 7. Brokers gather observable inputs for all of the Company’s fixed income securities from a variety of industry data providers and other third-party sources.In addition to those amounts presented above, as of June 30, 2018 and December 30, 2017, the Company had approximately $5 million and $2 million, respectively, of investments in government money market funds, used as collateral for letters of credit deposits, which were included in Other current assets on the Company’s condensed consolidated balance sheets. These government money market funds are classified within Level 1 because they are valued using quoted prices for identical instruments in active markets. Their amortized cost approximates the fair value for all periods presented. The Company also had approximately $3 million in a bank guarantee related to unsettled foreign tax transactional matters included in Other assets on the Company’s condensed consolidated balance sheets. The Company is restricted from accessing these deposits and bank guarantee.As of June 30, 2018 and December 30, 2017, the Company also had approximately $20 million and $18 million, respectively, of investments in mutual funds held in a Rabbi trust established for the Company’s deferred compensation plan, which were included in Other assets on the Company’s condensed consolidated balance sheets. These mutual funds are classified within Level 1 because they are valued using quoted prices for identical instruments in active markets. Their amortized cost approximates the fair value for all periods presented. The Company is restricted from accessing these investments. As of both June 30, 2018 and December 30, 2017, the Company had the carrying value of approximately $3 million in cost method investments.Financial Instruments Not Recorded at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis. The Company carries its financial instruments at fair value with the exception of its debt. Financial instruments that are not recorded at fair value are measured at fair value on a quarterly basis for disclosure purposes. The fair value of the debt was estimated based on the quoted market prices for the same or similar issues or on the current rates offered to the Company for debt of the same remaining maturities. The following table shows the fair value amounts included in Other current assets should the foreign currency forward contracts be in a gain position or included in Other current liabilities should these contracts be in a loss position. The Company hedges its exposure to the variability in future cash flows for forecasted transactions over a maximum of 12 months.NOTE 9. The legislation significantly changes U.S. tax law by, among other things, lowering corporate income tax rates, implementing a modified territorial tax system and imposing a transition tax on deemed repatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries. The Tax Reform Act reduces the U.S. corporate income tax rate from a maximum of 35% to a flat 21% rate, effective January 1, 2018. However, the SEC staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin 118 which allows companies to record provisional amounts during a measurement period that is similar to the measurement period used when accounting for business combinations. In the first and second quarters of 2018, the Company did not recognize any adjustment to the provisional amounts recorded as of December 30, 2017. As of June 30, 2018, because the Company is still evaluating the GILTI provisions and its analysis of future taxable income that is subject to 21GILTI, the Company has considered GILTI related to current-year operations only in its estimated annualized effective tax rate and has not provided additional GILTI on deferred items.In the second quarter of 2018, the Company recorded an income tax provision of $6 million, consisting primarily of $5 million for federal base erosion and anti-abuse tax, which is a new tax under the Tax Reform Act, and $1 million of foreign taxes in profitable locations.For the six months ended June 30, 2018, the Company recorded an income tax provision of $14 million, consisting primarily of $10 million for federal base erosion and anti-abuse tax, and $4 million of foreign taxes in profitable locations.In the second quarter of 2017, the Company recorded an income tax provision of $3 million, consisting of $1 million of foreign taxes in profitable locations and $3 million for withholding taxes applicable to license fee revenue from foreign locations, partially offset by $1 million of tax benefits comprising the tax effects of items credited directly to other comprehensive income, Canadian tax credits, and the monetization of certain U.S. tax credits. For the six months ended July 1, 2017, the Company recorded an income tax provision of $8 million, consisting of $4 million of foreign taxes in profitable locations and $7 million for withholding taxes applicable to license fee revenue from foreign locations, partially offset by $3 million of tax benefits comprising the tax effects of items credited directly to other comprehensive income, Canadian tax credits, and the monetization of certain U.S. tax credits.As of June 30, 2018, substantially all of the Company’s U.S. and Canadian deferred tax assets, net of deferred tax liabilities, continue to be subject to a valuation allowance. The realization of these assets is dependent on substantial future taxable income which, as of June 30, 2018, in management’s estimate, is not more likely than not to be achieved.The Company’s total gross unrecognized tax benefits were $49 million as of June 30, 2018. The Company does not believe it is reasonably possible that unrecognized tax benefits will materially change in the next 12 months. However, the settlement, resolution or closure of tax audits are highly uncertain.NOTE 10. These performance measures include the allocation of expenses to the operating segments based on management’s judgment. The Company also licenses portions of its IP portfolio.22In addition to these reportable segments, the Company has an All Other category, which is not a reportable segment. This category primarily includes certain expenses and credits that are not allocated to any of the reportable segments because management does not consider these expenses and credits in evaluating the performance of the reportable segments. Stock-Based Incentive Compensation PlansRestricted Stock UnitsDuring the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, the Company granted 1.0 million and 3.0 million shares of restricted stock units with weighted average grant date fair value per share of $12.67 and $12.25, respectively. Commitments and ContingenciesWarranties and IndemnitiesThe Company generally warrants that its products sold to its customers will conform to the Company’s approved specifications and be free from defects in material and workmanship under normal use and service for one year. It is not possible to determine the maximum potential amount of liability under these indemnification obligations due to the unique facts and circumstances that are likely to be involved in each particular claim and indemnification provision. The complaint purports to assert claims against the Company and certain individual directors and officers for breach of fiduciary duty, waste of corporate assets and unjust enrichment. On April 27, 2015, a similar purported shareholder derivative lawsuit captioned Christopher Hamilton and David Hamilton v. Barnes, et al., Case No. On September 29, 2015, a similar purported shareholder derivative lawsuit captioned Jake Ha v Caldwell, et al., Case No. The lawsuit also seeks a court order voiding the stockholder vote on the Company’s 2015 proxy. The case was transferred to the judge handling the Hamilton Lawsuit and is now Case No. The Wessels, Hamilton and Ha shareholder derivative lawsuits were stayed pending resolution of a class action lawsuit captioned Hatamian v. AMD, et al., C.A. No. On October 9, 2017, the parties signed a definitive settlement agreement resolving the Hatamian Lawsuit and submitted it to the Court for approval. Under the terms of this agreement, the settlement was funded entirely by certain of AMD’s insurance carriers and the defendants continued to deny any liability or wrongdoing. On March 2, 2018, the court approved the settlement and entered a final judgment in the Hatamian lawsuit. On January 30, 2018, the Wessels and Hamilton plaintiffs amended their complaints. On February 2, 2018, the Ha plaintiff also filed an amended complaint. On February 22, 2018, the Company filed motions to dismiss the Hamilton and Ha plaintiffs’ amended complaints. On April 2, 2018, we filed a demurrer seeking to dismiss the Wessels amended complaint. 24On July 23, 2018, the Santa Clara Superior Court sustained the Company's demurrer in the Wessels case, dismissing all claims in that matter with prejudice. The motions to dismiss the Hamilton and Ha amended complaints are fully briefed and remain pending.Based upon information presently known to management, the Company believes that the potential liability, if any, will not have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, cash flows or results of operations.Dickey LitigationOn October 26, 2015, a putative class action complaint captioned Dickey et al. v. AMD, No. 15-cv-04922 was filed against the Company in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California. Plaintiffs allege that the Company misled consumers by using the term “eight cores” in connection with the marketing of certain AMD FX CPUs that are based on the Company’s “Bulldozer” core architecture. The plaintiffs allege these products cannot perform eight calculations simultaneously, without restriction. The plaintiffs seek to obtain damages under several causes of action for a nationwide class of consumers who allegedly were deceived into purchasing certain Bulldozer-based CPUs that were marketed as containing eight cores. The plaintiffs also seek attorneys’ fees. On December 21, 2015, the Company filed a motion to dismiss the complaint, which was granted on April 7, 2016. The plaintiffs then filed an amended complaint with a narrowed putative class definition, which the Court dismissed upon the Company’s motion on October 31, 2016. The plaintiffs subsequently filed a second amended complaint, and the Company filed a motion to dismiss the second amended complaint. On June 14, 2017, the Court issued an order granting in part and denying in part the Company’s motion to dismiss, and allowing the plaintiffs to move forward with a portion of their complaint. On March 27, 2018, plaintiffs filed their motion for class certification. The putative class definition does not encompass the Company’s RyzenTM or EPYCTM processors.Based upon information presently known to management, the Company believes that the potential liability, if any, will not have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, cash flows or results of operations.Kim Securities LitigationOn January 16, 2018, a putative class action lawsuit captioned Kim et al. v. AMD, et al., Case No. The plaintiff seeks to represent a proposed class of all persons who purchased or otherwise acquired the Company’s common stock during the period February 21, 2017 through January 11, 2018. v. AMD, Inc., Case No. v. AMD, Inc., Case No. v. AMD, Inc., Case No. On April 9, 2018, the court consolidated these cases and ordered that Diana Hauck et al. v. AMD, Inc. serve as the lead case. Plaintiffs further allege that the Company's processors cannot perform at its advertised processing speeds without exposing consumers to Spectre, and that any “patches” to remedy this security vulnerability will result in degradation of processor performance. The plaintiffs also seek attorneys’ fees, equitable relief, and restitution.Based upon information presently known to management, the Company believes that the potential liability, if any, will not have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, cash flows or results of operations.Zeng Shareholder Derivative LawsuitOn March 8, 2018, a purported shareholder derivative lawsuit captioned Zeng v. Su, et al., Case No. The complaint purports to assert claims against the Company and certain individual directors and officers for breach of fiduciary duty, unjust enrichment, abuse of control, gross mismanagement and waste of corporate assets. The plaintiffs allege that these statements and omissions operated to artificially inflate the price paid for the Company's common stock during the period. On July 12, 2018, the court consolidated the Dolby and Gusinsky Trust shareholder derivative lawsuits under the caption In re Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Shareholder Derivative Litigation.Based upon information presently known to management, the Company believes that the potential liability, if any, will not have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, cash flows or results of operations.Quarterhill Inc. Each of the three complaints seeks unspecified monetary damages, interest, fees, expenses, and costs against the Company; Aquila and Collabo also seek enhanced damages. With respect to these matters, based on the management’s current knowledge, the Company believes that the amount or range of reasonably possible loss, if any, will not, either individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial position and results of operations or cash flows.26NOTE 13. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and beliefs and involve numerous risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof or as of the dates indicated in the statements and should not be relied upon as predictions of future events, as we cannot assure you that the events or circumstances reflected in these statements will be achieved or will occur. You can identify forward-looking statements by the use of forward-looking terminology including “believes,” “expects,” “may,” “will,” “should,” “seeks,” “intends,” “plans,” “pro forma,” “estimates,” “anticipates,” “designed,” or the negative of these words and phrases, other variations of these words and phrases or comparable terminology. We assume no obligation to update forward-looking statements.29AMD, the AMD Arrow logo, ATI, and the ATI logo, EPYC, Radeon, Ryzen, and combinations thereof, are trademarks of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Microsoft and Xbox One are trademarks or registered trademarks of Microsoft Corporation in the United States and other jurisdictions. Other names are for informational purposes only and are used to identify companies and products and may be trademarks of their respective owners. “Polaris”, “Vega”, “Radeon Vega”, “Navi”, “Zen” and “Naples” are codenames for AMD architectures, and are not product names.The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this report and our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes as of December 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, and for each of the three years in the period ended December 30, 2017 as filed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 30, 2017.OverviewWe are a global semiconductor company with facilities around the world. Our financial results for the second quarter of 2018 demonstrate our continued success in the execution of our long-term strategy for sustained growth. Net revenue in the second quarter of 2018 was $1.76 billion, a 53% increase compared to the second quarter of 2017. The year-over-year increase was primarily due to a 64% increase in Computing and Graphics net revenue and a 37% increase in Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom net revenue. The increase in the Computing and Graphics segment net revenue was primarily due to higher sales of our Radeon™ and Ryzen™ products. The increase in the Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segment net revenue was primarily due to higher semi-custom revenue as well as higher EPYC™ server revenue. Our operating income for the second quarter of 2018 was $153 million compared to an operating loss of $1 million in the second quarter of 2017. Our net income for the second quarter of 2018 was $116 million compared to a net loss of $42 million in the second quarter of 2017. We continued to introduce new products in the second quarter of 2018, including our premium notebook AMD Ryzen PRO APUs designed specifically for the commercial market. We also announced the availability of four models of our 2nd Generation Ryzen desktop CPUs optimized for gamers, creators and hardware enthusiasts.Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities as of the end of the second quarter of 2018 were $983 million, compared to $1.18 billion as of the end of the fourth quarter of 2017. These performance measures include the allocation of expenses to the operating segments based on management’s judgment. We also license portions of our IP portfolio; and30•the Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segment, which primarily includes server and embedded processors, semi-custom SoC products, development services and technology for game consoles. We also license portions of our IP portfolio.In addition to these reportable segments, we have an All Other category, which is not a reportable segment. This category primarily includes certain expenses and credits that are not allocated to either of the reportable segments because management does not consider these expenses and credits in evaluating the performance of the reportable segments. This category also includes employee stock-based compensation expense. We use a 52 or 53 week fiscal year ending on the last Saturday in December. The quarters ended June 30, 2018 and July 1, 2017 each consisted of 13 weeks. The six months ended June 30, 2018 and July 1, 2017 each consisted of 26 weeks.Our operating results tend to vary seasonally. For example, historically, first quarter PC product sales are generally lower than fourth quarter sales and with respect to our semi-custom SoC products for game consoles, our sales patterns generally follow the seasonal trends of consumer business with sales in the first half of the year being lower than sales in the second half of the year. For example, we expect a portion of our semi-custom SoC product revenue to shift from the second half of the year to the first half of the year. The increase in average selling price was primarily due to our Radeon products for the channel and datacenter, and mobile processors, partially offset by lower average selling price of desktop processors. The increase in unit shipments was primarily attributable to higher demand for our Ryzen and Radeon products as customers continued to adopt our new products.Computing and Graphics net revenue of $2.2 billion in the six months ended June 30, 2018 increased by 78%, compared to net revenue of $1.2 billion in the six months ended July 1, 2017, primarily as a result of a 55% increase in average selling price and an 18% increase in unit shipments. The increase in average selling price was primarily due to Radeon products for the channel and datacenter, and mobile processors, partially offset by lower average selling price of desktop processors. The increase in unit shipments was primarily attributable to higher demand for our Radeon and Ryzen products as customers adopted our new products.Computing and Graphics operating income was $117 million in the second quarter of 2018, compared to an operating income of $7 million in the second quarter of 2017. The improvement in operating results was primarily due to the increase in net revenue referenced above, partially offset by the related increase in cost of sales and a $62 million increase in operating expenses. Operating expenses increased for the reasons set forth under “Expenses” below.Computing and Graphics operating income was $255 million in the six months ended June 30, 2018, compared to an operating loss of $14 million in the six months ended July 1, 2017. The improvement in operating results was primarily due to the increase in net revenue referenced above, partially offset by the related increase in cost of sales and a $122 million increase in operating expenses. Operating expenses increased for the reasons set forth under “Expenses” below.31Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-CustomEnterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom net revenue of $670 million in the second quarter of 2018 increased by 37%, compared to net revenue of $490 million in the second quarter of 2017. The increase in net revenue was primarily due to higher semi-custom revenue as well as higher EPYC server revenue.Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom net revenue of $1.2 billion in the six months ended June 30, 2018 increased by 10%, compared to net revenue of $1.1 billion in the six months ended July 1, 2017. The increase in net revenue was primarily due to higher sale of our EPYC server and embedded products as well as higher semi-custom revenue.Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom operating income was $69 million in the second quarter of 2018 compared to operating income of $16 million in the second quarter of 2017. The improvement in operating results was primarily due to the increase in net revenue referenced above, partially offset by the related increase in cost of sales and a $17 million increase in operating expenses. In the second quarter of 2017, operating income also included a licensing gain of $25 million. Operating expenses increased for the reasons set forth under “Expenses” below.Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom operating income was $83 million in the six months ended June 30, 2018 compared to operating income of $71 million in the six months ended July 1, 2017. The improvement in operating results was primarily due to the increase in net revenue referenced above, partially offset by a $32 million increase in operating expenses and the related increase in cost of sales. In the six months ended July 1, 2017, operating income also included a licensing gain of $52 million. Operating expenses increased for the reasons set forth under “Expenses” below.International SalesInternational sales as a percentage of net revenue were 82% in the second quarter of 2018 and 87% in the second quarter of 2017. The decrease in international sales as a percentage of net revenue in the second quarter of 2018 compared to the second quarter of 2017 was primarily driven by a higher proportion of revenue from domestic sales of our semi-custom, Radeon and EPYC products.International sales as a percentage of net revenue were 82% in the first six months ended June 30, 2018 and 77% in the first six months ended July 1, 2017. The increase in international sales as a percentage of net revenue in the first six months ended June 30, 2018 compared to the first six months ended July 1, 2017 was primarily driven by a higher proportion of revenue from China and Taiwan related to sales of our products within the Computing and Graphics segment.We expect that international sales will continue to be a significant portion of total sales in the foreseeable future. Substantially all of our sales transactions were denominated in U.S. dollars. The improvement in gross margin was driven by ramp of new products that have a higher gross margin than the corporate average.Gross margin as a percentage of net revenue was 37% in the six months ended June 30, 2018, compared to 33% in the six months ended July 1, 2017. The improvement in gross margin was driven by ramp of new products new products that have a higher gross margin than the corporate average.ExpensesResearch and Development ExpensesResearch and development expenses of $357 million in the second quarter of 2018 increased by $72 million, or 25%, compared to $285 million in the second quarter of 2017 primarily due to an increase in product engineering and design costs in our Computing and Graphics segment, higher employee incentives in both business segments primarily driven by our improved financial performance and higher stock-based compensation expense.Research and development expenses of $700 million in the six months ended June 30, 2018, increased by $144 million, or 26% compared to $556 million in the six months ended July 1, 2017, primarily due to an increase in product engineering and design costs in our Computing and Graphics segment, higher employee incentives in both business segments primarily driven by our improved financial performance and higher stock-based compensation expense. Marketing, General and Administrative ExpensesMarketing, general and administrative expenses of $142 million in the second quarter of 2018 increased by $15 million, or 12%, compared to $127 million in the second quarter of 2017 primarily due to an increase in marketing programs and employee incentives driven by our improved financial performance.Marketing, general and administrative expenses of $276 million during the six months ended June 30, 2018, increased by $26 million or 10%, compared to $250 million in the six months ended July 1, 2017, primarily due to an increase in marketing programs and employee incentives driven by our improved financial performance. Interest ExpenseInterest expense in the second quarter of 2018 was $31 million compared to $32 million in the second quarter of 2017. The decrease was primarily due to lower weighted average interest rates and lower debt balances.Interest expense in the first six months ended June 30, 2018 was $62 million compared to $64 million in the first six months ended July 1, 2017. The legislation significantly changes U.S. tax law by, among other things, lowering corporate income tax rates, implementing a modified territorial tax system and imposing a transition tax on deemed repatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries. The Tax Reform Act reduces the U.S. corporate income tax rate from a maximum of 35% to a flat 21% rate, effective January 1, 2018. However, the SEC staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin 118 which allows companies to record provisional amounts during a measurement period that is similar to the measurement period used when accounting for business combinations. In the first and second quarters of 2018, we did not recognize any adjustment to the provisional amounts recorded as of December 30, 2017. We consider our accounting for the impacts of the Tax Reform Act to be incomplete and we will continue to assess the impact of the Tax Reform Act as well as expected further guidance from federal and state tax authorities and for the associated income tax accounting on our business and consolidated financial statements over the next six months. As of June 30, 2018, because we are still evaluating the GILTI provisions and our analysis of future taxable income that is subject to GILTI, we have considered GILTI related to current-year operations only in our estimated annualized effective tax rate and have not provided additional GILTI on deferred items.In the second quarter of 2018, we recorded an income tax provision of $6 million, consisting primarily of $5 million for federal base erosion and anti-abuse tax, which is a new tax under the Tax Reform Act, and $1 million of foreign taxes in profitable locations.For the six months ended June 30, 2018, we recorded an income tax provision of $14 million, consisting primarily of $10 million for federal base erosion and anti-abuse tax, and $4 million of foreign taxes in profitable locations.In the second quarter of 2017, we recorded an income tax provision of $3 million, consisting of $1 million of foreign taxes in profitable locations and $3 million for withholding taxes applicable to license fee revenue from foreign locations, partially offset by $1 million of tax benefits comprising the tax effects of items credited directly to other comprehensive income, Canadian tax credits, and the monetization of certain U.S. tax credits.For the six months ended July 1, 2017, we recorded an income tax provision of $8 million, consisting of $4 million of foreign taxes in profitable locations and $7 million for withholding taxes applicable to license fee revenue from foreign locations, partially offset by $3 million of tax benefits comprising the tax effects of items credited directly to other comprehensive income, Canadian tax credits, and the monetization of certain U.S. tax credits.As of June 30, 2018, substantially all of our U.S. and Canadian deferred tax assets, net of deferred tax liabilities, continue to be subject to a valuation allowance. The realization of these assets is dependent on substantial future taxable income, which as of June 30, 2018, in our estimate, is not more likely than not to be achieved.Our total gross unrecognized tax benefits were $49 million as of June 30, 2018. We do not believe it is reasonably possible that unrecognized tax benefits will materially change in the next 12 months. Stock-based compensation expense of $65 million in the six months ended June 30, 2018 increased by $18 million, compared to $47 million in the six months ended July 1, 2017. The increases were primarily due to a higher weighted average grant date fair value of unvested restricted stock units in the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, compared to the three and six months ended July 1, 2017. Under the current WSA Sixth Amendment, we have agreed on fixed pricing for wafers purchased in 2018 with GF and have an established framework to agree on annual wafer pricing for the years 2019 and 2020. GF continues to be a related party of ours. We had transactions with ATMP JV during the periods presented herein. Refer to Note 4. The percentage of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities held domestically was 97% as of June 30, 2018, compared to 95% at December 30, 2017. We believe that in the event we decide to obtain external funding, we may be able to access the capital markets on terms and in amounts adequate to meet our objectives.Should we require additional funding, such as to meet payment obligations of our long-term debt when due, we may need to raise the required funds through borrowings or public or private sales of debt or equity securities, which may be issued from time to time under an effective registration statement, through the issuance of securities in a transaction exempt from registration under the Securities Act of 1933 or a combination of one or more of the foregoing. Uncertain global economic conditions have in the past adversely impacted, and may in the future adversely impact, our business. If market conditions deteriorate, we may be limited in our ability to access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs on favorable terms or at all, which could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, including our ability to refinance maturing liabilities. Operating ActivitiesNet cash used in operating activities was $131 million in the six months ended June 30, 2018 compared to $381 million in the six months ended July 1, 2017. In those cases, we only included the minimum volume of purchase obligations in the table above. Purchase orders for goods and services that are cancellable upon notice and without significant penalties are not included in the amounts above. We cannot meaningfully quantify or estimate our future purchase obligations to GF beyond 2020 but expect that our future purchases from GF will continue to be material. Timing of payments and actual amounts paid may be different, depending on the time of receipt of goods or services, or changes to agreed-upon amounts for some obligations.Operating LeasesWe lease certain of our facilities under non-cancellable lease agreements that expire at various dates through 2028. Total future non-cancellable lease obligations as of June 30, 2018 were $334 million. During the second quarter of 2018, we entered into a 10 years operating lease to occupy approximately 270,000 square feet of office space in China. Base rent payments commence in October 2018 and the total estimated base rent payments over the life of the lease are approximately $72 million. In addition to the base rent payments, we will be obligated to pay certain customary amounts for our share of operating expenses and tax obligations. We will also incur costs for capital projects on the new office space. Off-Balance Sheet ArrangementsAs of June 30, 2018, we had no off-balance sheet arrangements. The preparation of our financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts in our condensed consolidated financial statements. We evaluate our estimates on an on-going basis, including those related to our net revenue, inventories, asset impairments and income taxes. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of our assets and liabilities. Accordingly, we now establish provisions for rights of return and price protection on unsold product held by our distributors. Other than this change in revenue recognition and related reserves, management believes there have been no other significant changes during the quarter ended June 30, 2018 to the items that we disclosed as our critical accounting estimates in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 30, 2017.38ITEM 3.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISKReference is made to “Part II, Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 30, 2017.There have not been any material changes in market risk since December 30, 2017. ITEM 4.CONTROLS AND PROCEDURESWe maintain disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in our reports made under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in SEC rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer as appropriate, to allow for timely decisions regarding required disclosure. In designing and evaluating our disclosure controls and procedures, our management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives, and our management is required to apply its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures.As of June 30, 2018, the end of the period covered by this report, we carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures. Based on the foregoing, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective at the reasonable assurance level.There was no change in our internal controls over financial reporting during our second quarter of 2018 that materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal controls over financial reporting.39PART II. The complaint purports to assert claims against us and certain individual directors and officers for breach of fiduciary duty, waste of corporate assets and unjust enrichment. On April 27, 2015, a similar purported shareholder derivative lawsuit captioned Christopher Hamilton and David Hamilton v. Barnes, et al., Case No. On September 29, 2015, a similar purported shareholder derivative lawsuit captioned Jake Ha v Caldwell, et al., Case No. The lawsuit also seeks a court order voiding the stockholder vote on our 2015 proxy. The case was transferred to the judge handling the Hamilton Lawsuit and is now Case No. The Wessels, Hamilton and Ha shareholder derivative lawsuits were stayed pending resolution of a class action lawsuit captioned Hatamian v. AMD, et al., C.A. No. On October 9, 2017, the parties signed a definitive settlement agreement resolving the Hatamian Lawsuit and submitted it to the Court for approval. Under the terms of this agreement, the settlement was funded entirely by certain of our insurance carriers and the defendants continued to deny any liability or wrongdoing. On March 2, 2018, the court approved the settlement and entered a final judgment in the Hatamian Lawsuit. On January 30, 2018, the Wessels and Hamilton plaintiffs amended their complaints. On February 2, 2018, the Ha plaintiff also filed an amended complaint. On February 22, 2018, we filed motions to dismiss the Hamilton and Ha plaintiffs’ amended complaints. On April 2, 2018, we filed a demurrer seeking to dismiss the Wessels amended complaint. On July 23, 2018, the Santa Clara Superior Court sustained our demurrer in the Wessels case, dismissing all claims in that matter with prejudice. The motions to dismiss the Hamilton and Ha amended complaints are fully briefed and remain pending.Based upon information presently known to management, we believe that the potential liability, if any, will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. Dickey LitigationOn October 26, 2015, a putative class action complaint captioned Dickey et al. v. AMD, No. 15-cv-04922 was filed against us in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California. Plaintiffs allege that we misled consumers by using the term “eight cores” in connection with the marketing of certain AMD FX CPUs that are based on our “Bulldozer” core architecture. The plaintiffs allege these products cannot perform eight calculations simultaneously, without restriction. The plaintiffs seek to obtain damages under several causes of action for a nationwide class of consumers who allegedly were deceived into purchasing certain Bulldozer-based CPUs that were marketed as containing eight cores. The plaintiffs also seek attorneys’ fees. On December 21, 2015, we filed a motion to dismiss the complaint, which was granted on April 7, 2016. The plaintiffs then filed an amended complaint with a narrowed putative class definition, which the Court dismissed upon our motion on October 31, 2016. The plaintiffs subsequently filed a second amended complaint, and we filed a motion to dismiss the second amended complaint. On June 14, 2017, the Court issued an order granting in part and denying in part our motion to dismiss, and allowing the plaintiffs to move forward with a portion of their complaint. On March 27, 2018, plaintiffs filed their motion for class certification. The putative class definition does not encompass our Ryzen or EPYC processors.Based upon information presently known to management, we believe that the potential liability, if any, will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows or results of operations.Kim Securities LitigationOn January 16, 2018, a putative class action lawsuit captioned Kim et al. v. AMD, et al., Case No. The plaintiff seeks to represent a proposed class of all persons who purchased or otherwise acquired our common stock during the period February 21, 2017 through January 11, 2018. The complaint seeks unspecified compensatory damages, attorneys’ fees and costs.Based upon information presently known to management, we believe that the potential liability, if any, will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows or results of operations.Hauck et al. v. AMD, Inc., Case No. v. AMD, Inc., Case No. v. AMD, Inc., Case No. On April 9, 2018, the court consolidated these cases and ordered that Diana Hauck et al. v. AMD, Inc. serve as the lead case. Plaintiffs further allege that our processors cannot perform at their advertised processing speeds without exposing consumers to Spectre, and that any “patches” to remedy this security vulnerability will result in degradation of processor performance. The plaintiffs also seek attorneys’ fees, equitable relief, and restitution.Based upon information presently known to management, we believe that the potential liability, if any, will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows or results of operations.Zeng Shareholder Derivative Lawsuit On March 8, 2018, a purported shareholder derivative lawsuit captioned Zeng v. Su, et al., Case No. The complaint purports to assert claims against us and certain individual directors and officers for breach of fiduciary duty, unjust enrichment, abuse of control, gross mismanagement and waste of corporate assets. The plaintiffs allege that these statements and omissions operated to artificially inflate the price paid for our common stock during the period. On July 12, 2018, the court consolidated the Dolby and Gusinsky Trust shareholder derivative lawsuits under the caption In re Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Shareholder Derivative Litigation.Based upon information presently known to management, we believe that the potential liability, if any, will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows or results of operations.Quarterhill Inc. Each of the three complaints seeks unspecified monetary damages, interest, fees, expenses, and costs against us; Aquila and Collabo also seek enhanced damages. Based upon information presently known to management, we believe that the potential liability, if any, will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows or results of operations.42ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORSThe risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, you should consider the interrelationship and compounding effects of two or more risks occurring simultaneously.Intel Corporation’s dominance of the microprocessor market and its aggressive business practices may limit our ability to compete effectively.Intel Corporation has been the market share leader for microprocessors for many years. Intel’s market share, margins and significant financial resources enable it to market its products aggressively, to target our customers and our channel partners with special incentives and to influence customers who do business with us. These aggressive activities have in the past and are likely in the future to result in lower unit sales and a lower average selling price for many of our products and adversely affect our margins and profitability.Intel exerts substantial influence over computer manufacturers and their channels of distribution through various brand and other marketing programs. As a result of Intel’s position in the microprocessor market, Intel has been able to control x86 microprocessor and computer system standards and benchmarks and to dictate the type of products the microprocessor market requires of us. Intel also dominates the computer system platform, which includes core logic chipsets, graphics chips, motherboards and other components necessary to assemble a computer system. Additionally, Intel is able to drive de facto standards and specifications for x86 microprocessors that could cause us and other companies to have delayed access to such standards.Intel has substantially greater financial resources than we do and accordingly spends substantially greater amounts on marketing and research and development than we do. We expect Intel to maintain its market position and to continue to invest heavily in marketing, research and development, new manufacturing facilities and other technology companies. To the extent Intel manufactures a significantly larger portion of its microprocessor products using more advanced process technologies, or introduces competitive new products into the market before we do, we may be more vulnerable to Intel’s aggressive marketing and pricing strategies for microprocessor products. Intel could also take actions that place our discrete GPUs at a competitive disadvantage, including giving one or more of our competitors in the graphics market, such as Nvidia Corporation, preferential access to its proprietary graphics interface or other useful information. Also, Intel recently announced that it is developing their own high-end discrete GPUs. Intel’s position in the microprocessor market and integrated graphics chipset market, its introduction of competitive new products, its existing relationships with top-tier OEMs, and its aggressive marketing and pricing strategies could result in lower unit sales and a lower average selling price for our products, which could have a material adverse effect on us.We have a wafer supply agreement with GF with obligations to purchase all of our microprocessor and APU product requirements, and a certain portion of our GPU product requirements from GF, with limited exceptions. If GF is not able to satisfy our manufacturing requirements, our business could be adversely impacted.The WSA governs the terms by which we purchase products manufactured by GF. The WSA is in place until 2024. Pursuant to the WSA, we are required to purchase all of our microprocessor and APU product requirements, and a portion of our GPU product requirements from GF with limited exceptions. If GF is unable to achieve anticipated manufacturing yields, remain competitive using or implementing advanced leading-edge process technologies needed to manufacture future generations of our products, manufacture our products on a timely basis at competitive prices or meet our capacity requirements, then we may experience delays in product launches, supply shortages for certain products or increased costs and our business could be materially adversely affected. If Mubadala Tech fails to adequately fund GF on a timely basis, or at all, GF’s ability to manufacture products for us could be materially adversely affected.We rely on third parties to manufacture our products, and if they are unable to do so on a timely basis in sufficient quantities and using competitive technologies, our business could be materially adversely affected.We rely on third-party wafer foundries to fabricate the silicon wafers for all of our products. It is important to have reliable relationships with all of these third-party manufacturing suppliers to ensure adequate product supply to respond to customer demand.We cannot guarantee that these manufacturers or our other third-party manufacturing suppliers will be able to meet our near-term or long-term manufacturing requirements. If we experience supply constraints from our third-party manufacturing suppliers, we may be required to allocate the affected products amongst our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our relationships with these customers and on our financial condition. In addition, if we are unable to meet customer demand due to fluctuating or late supply from our manufacturing suppliers, it could result in lost sales and have a material adverse effect on our business.We do not have long-term commitment contracts with some of our third-party manufacturing suppliers. We obtain some of these manufacturing services on a purchase order basis and these manufacturers are not required to provide us with any specified minimum quantity of product beyond the quantities in an existing purchase order. Accordingly, we depend on these suppliers to allocate to us a portion of their manufacturing capacity sufficient to meet our needs, to produce products of acceptable quality and at acceptable manufacturing yields and to deliver those products to us on a timely basis and at acceptable prices. The manufacturers we use also fabricate wafers and ATMP products for other companies, including certain of our competitors. They could choose to prioritize capacity for other customers, increase the prices that they charge us on short notice or reduce or eliminate deliveries to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.Other risks associated with our dependence on third-party manufacturers include limited control over delivery schedules and quality assurance, lack of capacity in periods of excess demand, misappropriation of our intellectual property, dependence on several small undercapitalized subcontractors and limited ability to manage inventory and parts. Moreover, if any of our third-party manufacturers suffer any damage to facilities, lose benefits under material agreements, experience power outages, lack sufficient capacity to manufacture our products, encounter financial difficulties, are unable to secure necessary raw materials from their suppliers or suffer any other disruption or reduction in efficiency, we may encounter supply delays or disruptions. If we are unable to secure sufficient or reliable supplies of products, our ability to meet customer demand may be adversely affected and this could materially affect our business.If we transition the production of some of our products to new manufacturers, we may experience delayed product introductions, lower yields or poorer performance of our products. If we experience problems with product quality or are unable to secure sufficient capacity from a particular third-party manufacturer, or if we for other reasons cease utilizing one of those suppliers, we may be unable to secure an alternative supply for any specific product in a short time frame. Bhd. The majority of our ATMP services will be provided by the JVs and there is no guarantee that the JVs will be able to fulfill our long-term ATMP requirements. If we are unable to meet customer demand due to fluctuating or late supply from the JVs, it could result in lost sales and have a material adverse effect on our business.Failure to achieve expected manufacturing yields for our products could negatively impact our financial results.Semiconductor manufacturing yields are a result of both product design and process technology, which is typically proprietary to the manufacturer, and low yields can result from design failures, process technology failures or a combination of both. Our third-party foundries, including GF, are responsible for the process technologies used to fabricate silicon wafers. If our third-party foundries experience manufacturing inefficiencies or encounter disruptions, errors or difficulties during production, we may fail to achieve acceptable yields or experience product delivery delays. We cannot be certain that our third-party foundries will be able 44to develop, obtain or successfully implement leading-edge process technologies needed to manufacture future generations of our products profitably or on a timely basis or that our competitors will not develop new technologies, products or processes earlier. Moreover, during periods when foundries are implementing new process technologies, their manufacturing facilities may not be fully productive. A substantial delay in the technology transitions to smaller process technologies could have a material adverse effect on us, particularly if our competitors transition to more cost effective technologies before us. Our ability to develop, qualify and distribute, and have manufactured, new products and related technologies to meet evolving industry requirements, at prices acceptable to our customers and on a timely basis are significant factors in determining our competitiveness in our target markets. For example, a large portion of our Computing and Graphics revenue is focused on consumer desktop PC and notebook. While overall growth in Computing and Graphics is stabilizing, the areas within Computing and Graphics are changing. Our ability to take advantage of the opportunities within the areas of Computing and Graphics is based on foreseeing those changes and making timely investments in the form factors that serve those areas. As consumers adopt new form factors, have new product feature preferences or have different requirements than those consumers in the PC market, PC sales could be negatively impacted, which could adversely impact our business. Our product roadmap includes AMD Ryzen and AMD EPYC processors based on our new x86 processor core codenamed “Zen” to help drive our re-entry into high-performance and server computing. We cannot assure you that our efforts to execute our product roadmap and address markets beyond our core PC market will result in innovative products and technologies that provide value to our customers. If we fail to or are delayed in developing, qualifying or shipping new products or technologies that provide value to our customers and address these new trends or if we fail to predict which new form factors consumers will adopt and adjust our business accordingly, we may lose competitive positioning, which could cause us to lose market share and require us to discount the selling prices of our products. Although we make substantial investments in research and development, we cannot be certain that we will be able to develop, obtain or successfully implement new products and technologies on a timely basis or that they will be well-received by our customers. Moreover, our investments in new products and technologies involve certain risks and uncertainties and could disrupt our ongoing business. New investments may not generate sufficient revenue, may incur unanticipated liabilities and may divert our limited resources and distract management from our current operations. We cannot be certain that our ongoing investments in new products and technologies will be successful, will meet our expectations and will not adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and operating results.Delays in developing, qualifying or shipping new products can also cause us to miss our customers’ product design windows or, in some cases, breach contractual obligations or cause us to pay penalties. If our customers do not include our products in the initial design of their computer systems or products, they will typically not use our products in their systems or products until at least the next design configuration. The process of being qualified for inclusion in a customer’s system or product can be lengthy and could cause us to further miss a cycle in the demand of end-users, which also could result in a loss of market share and harm our business. We also depend on the success and timing of our customers' platform launches. In addition, market demand requires that products incorporate new features and performance standards on an industry-wide basis. Over the life of a specific product, the sale price is typically reduced over time. The introduction of new products and enhancements to existing products is necessary to maintain the overall corporate average selling price. If we are unable to introduce new products with sufficiently high sale prices or to increase unit sales volumes capable of offsetting the reductions in the sale prices of existing products over time, our business could be materially adversely affected.If we cannot generate sufficient revenue and operating cash flow or obtain external financing, we may face a cash shortfall and be unable to make all of our planned investments in research and development or other strategic investments.Our ability to fund research and development expenditures depends on generating sufficient revenue and cash flow from operations and the availability of external financing, if necessary. Our research and development expenditures, together with ongoing operating expenses, will be a substantial drain on our cash flow and may decrease our cash balances. If new competitors, technological advances by existing competitors, or other competitive factors require us to invest significantly greater resources than anticipated in our research and development efforts, our operating expenses would increase. If we are required to invest significantly greater resources than anticipated in research and development efforts without an increase in revenue, our operating results could decline.We regularly assess markets for external financing opportunities, including debt and equity financing. Additional debt or equity financing may not be available when needed or, if available, may not be available on satisfactory terms. The health of the 45credit markets may adversely impact our ability to obtain financing when needed. Credit agency downgrades or concerns regarding our credit worthiness may impact relationships with our suppliers, who may limit our credit lines. Our inability to obtain needed financing or to generate sufficient cash from operations may require us to abandon projects or curtail planned investments in research and development or other strategic initiatives. If we curtail planned investments in research and development or abandon projects, our products may fail to remain competitive and our business would be materially adversely affected.The loss of a significant customer may have a material adverse effect on us.We depend on a small number of customers for a substantial portion of our business and we expect that a small number of customers will continue to account for a significant part of our revenue in the future. If one of our key customers decides to stop buying our products, or if one of these customers materially reduces or reorganizes its operations or its demand for our products, our business would be materially adversely affected.Our receipt of revenue from our semi-custom SoC products is dependent upon our technology being designed into third-party products and the success of those products.The revenue that we receive from our semi-custom SoC products is in the form of non-recurring engineering fees charged to third parties for design and development services and revenue received in connection with sales of our semi-custom SoC products to these third parties. As a result, our ability to generate revenue from our semi-custom products depends on our ability to secure customers for our semi-custom design pipeline, our customers’ desire to pursue the project, and our semi-custom SoC products being incorporated into those customer’s products. Any revenue from sales of our semi-custom SoC products is directly related to sales of the third-party’s products and reflective of their success in the market. Moreover, we have no control over the marketing efforts of these third parties, and we cannot make any assurances that sales of their products will be successful in current or future years. Consequently, the semi-custom SoC product revenue expected by us may not be fully realized and our operating results may be adversely affected.Our products may be subject to security vulnerabilities that could have a material adverse effect on us.The products that we sell are complex and may be subject to security vulnerabilities that could result in, among other things, the loss, corruption, theft or misuse of confidential data or system performance issues. Our efforts to prevent and address security vulnerabilities may decrease performance, be only partially effective or not successful at all. We may also depend on third parties, such as customers, vendors and end users, to deploy our mitigations or create their own, and they may delay, decline or modify the implementation of such mitigations. Our relationships with our customers could be adversely affected as some of our customers may stop purchasing our products, reduce or delay future purchases of our products, or use competing products. Any of these actions by our customers could adversely affect our revenue. We also are subject to claims and litigation related to the recently disclosed side-channel exploits, such as Spectre, and may face additional claims or litigation for future vulnerabilities. Actual or perceived security vulnerabilities of our products may subject us to adverse publicity, damage to our brand and reputation, and could materially harm our business or financial results.Data breaches and cyber-attacks could compromise our intellectual property or other sensitive information, be costly to remediate and cause significant damage to our business and reputation.In the ordinary course of our business, we maintain sensitive data on our networks, and also may maintain sensitive information on our business partners’ and third party providers’ networks, including our intellectual property and proprietary or confidential business information relating to our business and that of our customers and business partners. The secure maintenance of this information is critical to our business and reputation. We believe that companies have been increasingly subject to a wide variety of security incidents, cyber-attacks, hacking and phishing attacks, and other attempts to gain unauthorized access. These threats can come from a variety of sources, all ranging in sophistication from an individual hacker to a state-sponsored attack. Cyber threats may be generic, or they may be custom-crafted against our information systems. Cyber-attacks have become increasingly more prevalent and much harder to detect, defend against or prevent. Our network and storage applications, as well as those of our customers, business partners, and third-party providers, may be subject to unauthorized access by hackers or breached due to operator error, malfeasance or other system disruptions. It is often difficult to anticipate or immediately detect such incidents and the damage caused by such incidents. These data breaches and any unauthorized access, misuse or disclosure of our information or intellectual property could compromise our intellectual property and expose sensitive business information. Cyber-attacks on us or our customers, business partners or third party providers could also cause us to incur significant remediation costs, result in product development delays, disrupt key business operations and divert attention of management and key information technology resources. These incidents could also subject us to liability, expose us to significant expense and cause significant harm to our reputation and business. In addition, we are currently subject to claims and could be subject to additional claims in the future for damages resulting from loss of data from alleged vulnerabilities in the security of our processors. We also maintain confidential and personally identifiable information about our 46workers. The integrity and protection of our worker data is critical to our business and our workers have a high expectation that we will adequately protect their personal information. We often partner with third-party providers for certain worker services and we may provide certain limited worker information to such third parties based on the scope of the services provided to us. However, if these third parties fail to adopt or adhere to adequate data security practices, or in the event of a breach of their networks, our workers’ data may be improperly accessed, used or disclosed. A breach of data privacy is likely to cause significant disruption of our business operations. Failure to adequately maintain and update our security systems could materially adversely affect our operations and our ability to maintain worker confidence. Failure to prevent unauthorized access to electronic and other confidential information and data breaches could materially adversely affect our financial condition, our competitive position and operating results.Our operating results are subject to quarterly and seasonal sales patterns.A large portion of our quarterly sales have historically been made in the last month of the quarter. This uneven sales pattern makes prediction of revenue for each financial period difficult and increases the risk of unanticipated variations in quarterly results and financial condition. In addition, our operating results tend to vary seasonally with the markets in which our products are sold. For example, historically, first quarter PC product sales are generally lower than fourth quarter sales and with respect to our semi-custom SoC products for game consoles, our sales patterns generally follow the seasonal trends of consumer business with sales in the first half of the year being lower than sales in the second half of the year. For example, we expect a portion of our semi-custom SoC product revenue to shift from the second half of the year to the first half of the year. Many of the factors that create and affect quarterly and seasonal trends are beyond our control.Global economic uncertainty may adversely impact our business and operating results.Uncertain global economic conditions have in the past and may in the future adversely impact our business. Uncertainty in the worldwide economic environment may negatively impact consumer confidence and spending causing our customers to postpone purchases. In addition, during challenging economic times, our current or potential future customers may experience cash flow problems and as a result may modify, delay or cancel plans to purchase our products. Additionally, if our customers are not successful in generating sufficient revenue or are unable to secure financing, they may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, accounts receivable that they owe us. The risk related to our customers’ potentially defaulting on or delaying payments to us is increased because we expect that a small number of customers will continue to account for a substantial part of our revenue. Any inability of our current or potential future customers to pay us for our products may adversely affect our earnings and cash flow. Moreover, our key suppliers may reduce their output or become insolvent, thereby adversely impacting our ability to manufacture our products. In addition, uncertain economic conditions may make it more difficult for us to raise funds through borrowings or private or public sales of debt or equity securities.We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service our debt obligations or meet our working capital requirements.Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our debt will depend on our financial and operating performance, which may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter, and is subject to prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or to borrow sufficient funds to service our debt, we may be required to sell assets or equity, reduce expenditures, refinance all or a portion of our existing debt or obtain additional financing. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance our debt, sell assets or equity, borrow funds under our Secured Revolving Line of Credit or borrow more funds on terms acceptable to us, if at all.We have a large amount of indebtedness which could adversely affect our financial position and prevent us from implementing our strategy or fulfilling our contractual obligations.47Our total debt as of June 30, 2018 was $1.39 billion, net of unamortized debt issuance costs and unamortized debt discount associated with the 2.125% Notes. We enter into sale and factoring arrangements from time to time with respect to certain of our accounts receivables, which arrangements are non-recourse to us in the event that an account debtor fails to pay for credit-related reasons, and are not included in our indebtedness. Any of our future debt agreements may contain similar restrictions. If we fail to make any cash payment on a series of notes when required by the applicable indenture, it would constitute an event of default under such indenture, which, in turn, would constitute an event of default under the agreements governing our other indebtedness.Our Secured Revolving Line of Credit also contains various covenants which limit our ability to, among other things, make certain investments, merge or consolidate with other entities and permit certain subsidiaries from incurring indebtedness. The occurrence of a default under any of these borrowing arrangements would permit the applicable note holders or the lenders under our Secured Revolving Line of Credit to declare all amounts outstanding under those borrowing arrangements to be immediately due and payable. If the note holders or the trustee under the indentures governing our 6.75% Notes, 7.50% Notes, 7.00% Notes or 2.125% Notes or the lenders under our Secured Revolving Line of Credit accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient assets to repay those borrowings.The markets in which our products are sold are highly competitive.The markets in which our products are sold are very competitive and delivering the latest and best products to market on a timely basis is critical to achieving revenue growth. We may also face aggressive pricing by competitors, especially during challenging economic times. In addition, our competitors have significant marketing and sales resources which could increase the competitive environment in such a declining market, leading to lower prices and margins. Some competitors may have greater access or rights to complementary technologies, including interface, processor and memory technical information. For instance, with the introduction of our APU products and other competing solutions with integrated graphics, we believe that demand for additional discrete graphics chips and cards may decrease in the future due to improvements in the quality and performance of integrated graphics. If competitors introduce competitive new products into the market before us, demand for our products could be adversely impacted and our business could be adversely affected. In addition, Intel Corporation has announced that it plans to expand its position in integrated graphics for the PC market with high-end discrete graphics solutions for a broad range of computing segments, which may negatively impact our ability to compete in these computing segments.In addition, we are entering markets with current and new competitors who may be able to adapt more quickly to customer requirements and emerging technologies. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current or new competitors who may have stronger positions in these new markets or superior ability to anticipate customer requirements and emerging industry trends. We may face delays or disruptions in research and development efforts, or we may be required to invest significantly greater resources in research and development than anticipated.Our worldwide operations are subject to political, legal and economic risks and natural disasters, which could have a material adverse effect on us.We maintain operations around the world, including in the United States, Canada, Europe, Australia and Asia. We rely on third-party wafer foundries in Europe and Asia. Nearly all product assembly and final testing of our products is performed at manufacturing facilities, operated by third-party manufacturing facilities, in China, Malaysia and Taiwan. We also have international sales operations. International sales, as a percent of net revenue, were 82% in the second quarter of 2018. For example, our Santa Clara operations are located near major earthquake fault lines in California. For example, the United Kingdom’s 2016 referendum, commonly referred to as “Brexit,” has created economic and political uncertainty in the European Union. Also, the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation, which became effective in May 2018, imposes significant new requirements on how we collect, process and transfer personal data, as well as significant fines for non-compliance. Also the United States administration has called for changes to domestic and foreign policy. The United States administration has announced tariffs on products imported from China and other countries that if implemented could negatively impact our supply chain, increase costs for our products, or reduce the sales of our products, which in turn could negatively impact our business. There is also a possibility of future tariffs imposed by the US, China or other countries that could have a material adverse effect on our business. Until we know what changes are enacted, we will not know whether in total we benefit from, or are negatively affected by, the changes. Any issuance by us of shares of our common stock to WCH upon exercise of the warrants will dilute the ownership interests of our existing stockholders. Any sales in the public market by WCH of any shares owned by WCH could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock, and the anticipated exercise by WCH of the warrants could depress the price of our common stock.Also, the conversion of some or all of the 2.125% Notes may dilute the ownership interests of our existing stockholders. All of the 2.125% Notes were convertible at the option of their holders prior to their scheduled term from April 1, 2018 until June 30, 2018. Any sales in the public market of our common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. We generally do not have long-term supply arrangements with our customers or minimum purchase requirements except that orders generally must be for standard pack quantities. Generally, our customers may cancel orders for standard products more than 30 days prior to shipment without incurring significant fees. We base our inventory levels in part on customers’ estimates of demand for their products, which may not accurately predict the quantity or type of our products that our customers will want in the future or ultimately end up purchasing. Our ability to forecast demand is even further complicated when our products are sold indirectly through downstream channel distributors and customers, as our forecasts for demand are then based on estimates provided by multiple parties throughout the downstream channel.PC and consumer markets are characterized by short product lifecycles, which can lead to rapid obsolescence and price erosion. In addition, our customers may change their inventory practices on short notice for any reason. The demand for our products depends in part on the market conditions in the industries into which they are sold. Fluctuations in demand for our products or a market decline in any of these industries could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.Industry-wide fluctuations in the computer marketplace have materially adversely affected us in the past and may materially adversely affect us in the future. A large portion of our Computing and Graphics revenue is focused on the consumer desktop PC and notebook segments, which have in the past experienced a decline driven by, among other factors, the adoption of smaller and other form factors, increased competition and changes in replacement cycles. The success of our semi-custom SoC products is dependent on securing customers for our semi-custom design pipeline and consumer market conditions, including the success of the Sony PlayStation®4, Sony PlayStation®4 Pro, Microsoft® Xbox One™ S and Microsoft® Xbox One™ X game console systems worldwide. In addition, the GPU market has at times seen elevated demand due to the application of GPU products to cryptocurrency mining. For example, our GPU revenue has been affected in part by the volatility of the cryptocurrency mining market. Demand for cryptocurrency could change quickly. For example, China and South Korea have recently instituted restrictions on cryptocurrency trading. If we are unable to manage the risks related to a decrease in the demand for cryptocurrency mining, our GPU business could be materially adversely affected.Our ability to design and introduce new products in a timely manner is dependent upon third-party intellectual property.In the design and development of new and enhanced products, we rely on third-party intellectual property such as software development tools and hardware testing tools. Furthermore, certain product features may rely on intellectual property acquired from third parties. The design requirements necessary to meet customer demand for more features and greater functionality from semiconductor products may exceed the capabilities of the third-party intellectual property or development tools available to us. In addition, our microprocessors are not designed to function with motherboards and chipsets designed to work with Intel microprocessors. If the designers, manufacturers, AIBs and suppliers of motherboards, graphics cards, software and other components decrease their support for our product offerings, our business could be materially adversely affected.If we lose Microsoft Corporation’s support for our products or other software vendors do not design and develop software to run on our products, our ability to sell our products could be materially adversely affected.Our ability to innovate beyond the x86 instruction set controlled by Intel depends partially on Microsoft designing and developing its operating systems to run on or support our x86-based microprocessor products. With respect to our graphics products, we depend in part on Microsoft to design and develop its operating system to run on or support our graphics products. Similarly, the success of our products in the market, such as our APU products, is dependent on independent software providers designing and developing software to run on our products. If Microsoft does not continue to design and develop its operating systems so that they work with our x86 instruction sets or does not continue to develop and maintain their operating systems to support our graphics products, independent software providers may forego designing their software applications to take advantage of our innovations and customers may not purchase PCs with our products. In addition, some software drivers licensed for use with our products are certified by Microsoft. If Microsoft did not certify a driver, or if we otherwise fail to retain the support of Microsoft or other software vendors, our ability to market our products would be materially adversely affected.Our reliance on third-party distributors and AIB partners subjects us to certain risks.We market and sell our products directly and through third-party distributors and AIB partners pursuant to agreements that can generally be terminated for convenience by either party upon prior notice to the other party. These agreements are non-exclusive and permit both our distributors and AIB partners to offer our competitors’ products. We are dependent on our distributors and AIB partners to supplement our direct marketing and sales efforts. If any significant distributor or AIB or a substantial number of our distributors or AIB partners terminated their relationship with us, decided to market our competitors’ products over our products or decided not to market our products at all, our ability to bring our products to market would be impacted and we would be 51materially adversely affected. If we are unable to manage the risks related to the use of our third-party distributors and AIB partners or offer appropriate incentives to focus them on the sale of our products, our business could be materially adversely affected.Additionally, distributors and AIB partners typically maintain an inventory of our products. In most instances, our agreements with distributors protect their inventory of our products against price reductions, as well as provide return rights for any product that we have removed from our price book and that is not more than 12 months older than the manufacturing date. Some agreements with our distributors also contain standard stock rotation provisions permitting limited levels of product returns. Our agreements with AIB partners protect their inventory of our products against price reductions. In the event of a significant decline in the price of our products, the price protection rights we offer would materially adversely affect us because our revenue and corresponding gross margin would decline.We may incur future impairments of goodwill and technology license purchases.We perform our annual goodwill impairment analysis as of the first day of the fourth quarter of each year. Subsequent to our annual goodwill impairment analysis, we monitor for any events or changes in circumstances, such as significant adverse changes in business climate or operating results, changes in management’s business strategy, an inability to successfully introduce new products in the marketplace, an inability to successfully achieve internal forecasts or significant declines in our stock price, which may represent an indicator of impairment. The occurrence of any of these events may require us to record future goodwill impairment charges.We license certain third party technologies and tools for the design and production of our products. We report the value of those licenses as intangible assets on the balance sheet and we periodically evaluate the carrying value of those licenses based on their future economic benefit to us. Factors such as the life of the assets, changes in competing technologies, changes to the business strategy may represent an indicator of impairment. The occurrence of any of these events may require us to record future technology license impairment charges.Our inability to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel may hinder our business.Much of our future success depends upon the continued service of numerous qualified engineering, marketing, sales and executive personnel. Competition for highly skilled employees and executives in the technology industry is intense. If we are not able to continue to attract, train and retain qualified personnel necessary for our business, the progress of our product development programs could be hindered, and we could be materially adversely affected. If the value of such stock awards does not appreciate as measured by the performance of the price of our common stock, or if our share-based compensation otherwise ceases to be viewed as a valuable benefit, our ability to attract, retain and motivate personnel could be weakened, which could harm our results of operations. Also, if the value of our stock awards increases substantially, this could potentially create great personal wealth for our employees and affect our ability to retain these employees. In addition, our current and any future restructuring plans may adversely impact our ability to attract and retain key employees.In the event of a change of control, we may not be able to repurchase our outstanding debt as required by the applicable indentures and our Secured Revolving Line of Credit, which would result in a default under the indentures and our Secured Revolving Line of Credit.Upon a change of control, we will be required to offer to repurchase all of our 6.75% Notes, 7.50% Notes, 7.00% Notes and 2.125% Notes then outstanding at 101% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, up to, but excluding, the repurchase date. In addition, a change of control would be an event of default under our Secured Revolving Line of Credit. As of June 30, 2018, $70 million borrowings were outstanding under the Secured Revolving Line of Credit, $31 million related to letters of credit under the Secured Revolving Line of Credit remained outstanding and $1.6 billion principal amount was outstanding under our notes. Future debt agreements may contain similar provisions. We may not have the financial resources to repurchase our outstanding notes and prepay all of our outstanding obligations under our Secured Revolving Line of Credit.The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and has experienced severe downturns that have materially adversely affected, and may continue to materially adversely affect, our business in the future.The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and has experienced significant downturns, often in conjunction with constant and rapid technological change, wide fluctuations in supply and demand, continuous new product introductions, price erosion and declines in general economic conditions. Industry-wide fluctuations in the computer marketplace have materially adversely affected us in the past and may materially adversely affect us in the future. For example, a large portion of our Computing and Graphics revenue is focused on consumer 52desktop PC and notebook segments. While overall growth in Computing and Graphics is stabilizing, the areas within Computing and Graphics are changing. Our ability to take advantage of the opportunities within Computing and Graphics is based on foreseeing those changes and making timely investments in the form factors that serve those growing sub-segments.Global economic uncertainty and weakness have in the past impacted the semiconductor market as consumers and businesses have deferred purchases, which negatively impacted demand for our products. Our financial performance has been, and may in the future be, negatively affected by these downturns.The growth of our business is also dependent on continued demand for our products from high-growth adjacent emerging global markets. Our ability to be successful in such markets depends in part on our ability to establish adequate local infrastructure, as well as our ability to cultivate and maintain local relationships in these markets. In some circumstances, we may pursue growth through the acquisition of complementary businesses, solutions or technologies or through divestitures or joint ventures rather than through internal development. The identification of suitable acquisition or joint venture candidates can be difficult, time-consuming and costly, and we may not be able to successfully complete identified acquisitions or joint ventures. Moreover, if such acquisitions or joint ventures require us to seek additional debt or equity financing, we may not be able to obtain such financing on terms favorable to us or at all. Even if we successfully complete an acquisition or a joint venture, we may not be able to assimilate and integrate effectively or efficiently the acquired business, technologies, solutions, assets, personnel or operations, particularly if key personnel of the acquired company decide not to work for us. Acquisitions and joint ventures may also involve the entry into geographic or business markets in which we have little or no prior experience. Consequently, we may not achieve anticipated benefits of the acquisitions or joint ventures which could harm our operating results. In addition, to complete an acquisition, we may issue equity securities, which would dilute our stockholders’ ownership and could adversely affect the price of our common stock, as well as incur debt, assume contingent liabilities or have amortization expenses and write-downs of acquired assets, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Acquisitions and joint ventures may also reduce our cash available for operations and other uses, which could harm our business. Also, any failure on our part to effectively evaluate and execute new business initiatives could adversely affect our business. We may not adequately assess the risk of new business initiatives and subsequent events may arise that alter the risks that were initially considered.Furthermore, we may not achieve the objectives and expectations with respect to future operations, products and services. In 2016, we consummated the transaction with TFME, under which we sold to TFME 85% of the equity interests in our JVs. Going forward, we expect the majority of our ATMP services will be provided by the JVs and there is no guarantee that the JVs will be able to fulfill our long-term ATMP requirements. If we are unable to meet customer demand due to fluctuating or late supply from the JVs, it could result in lost sales and have a material adverse effect on our business.In addition, we may not realize the anticipated benefits from any new business initiatives. The primary purpose of the THATIC JV is to support our expansion into the server and workstation product market in China. We also expect to receive a royalty based on the sales of the THATIC JV’s products to be developed on the basis of such Licensed IP. We may not realize the expected benefits from this joint venture, including the THATIC JV’s expected future performance, the receipt of any future milestone payments from the Licensed IP, and the receipt of any royalty payments from future sales of products by the THATIC JV.Our business is dependent upon the proper functioning of our internal business processes and information systems and modification or interruption of such systems may disrupt our business, processes and internal controls.We rely upon a number of internal business processes and information systems to support key business functions, and the efficient operation of these processes and systems is critical to our business. Our business processes and information systems need to be sufficiently scalable to support the growth of our business and may require modifications or upgrades that expose us to a number of operational risks. As such, our information systems will continually evolve and adapt in order to meet our business needs. These changes may be costly and disruptive to our operations and could impose substantial demands on management time.These changes may also require changes in our information systems, modification of internal control procedures and significant training of employees and third-party resources. We continuously work on simplifying our information systems and applications through consolidation and standardization efforts. There can be no assurance that our business and operations will not experience any disruption in connection with this transition. Our information technology systems, and those of third-party 53information technology providers or business partners, may also be vulnerable to damage or disruption caused by circumstances beyond our control including catastrophic events, power anomalies or outages, natural disasters, viruses or malware, cyber-attacks, data breaches and computer system or network failures, exposing us to significant cost, reputational harm and disruption or damage to our business.In addition, as our IT environment continues to evolve, we are embracing new ways of communicating and sharing data internally and externally with customers and partners using methods such as mobility and the cloud that can promote business efficiency. However, these practices can also result in a more distributed IT environment, making it more difficult for us to maintain visibility and control over internal and external users, and meet scalability and administrative requirements. If our security controls cannot keep pace with the speed of these changes, or if we are not able to meet regulatory and compliance requirements, our business would be materially adversely affected.If essential equipment, materials or manufacturing processes are not available to manufacture our products, we could be materially adversely affected.We may purchase equipment and materials for our back-end manufacturing operations from a number of suppliers and our operations depend upon obtaining deliveries of adequate supplies of equipment and materials on a timely basis. Our third-party suppliers also depend on the same timely delivery of adequate quantities of equipment and materials in the manufacture of our products. In addition, as many of our products increase in technical complexity, we rely on our third-party suppliers to update their processes in order to continue meeting our back-end manufacturing needs. Certain equipment and materials that are used in the manufacture of our products are available only from a limited number of suppliers, or in some cases, a sole supplier. We also depend on a limited number of suppliers to provide the majority of certain types of integrated circuit packages for our microprocessors, including our APU products. Because some of the equipment and materials that we and our third-party manufacturing suppliers purchase are complex, it is sometimes difficult to substitute one supplier for another. From time to time, suppliers may extend lead times, limit supply or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors. Also, some of these materials and components may be subject to rapid changes in price and availability. Interruption of supply or increased demand in the industry could cause shortages and price increases in various essential materials. Dependence on a sole supplier or a limited number of suppliers exacerbates these risks. If we are unable to procure certain of these materials for our back-end manufacturing operations, or our third-party foundries or manufacturing suppliers are unable to procure materials for manufacturing our products, our business would be materially adversely affected.If our products are not compatible with some or all industry-standard software and hardware, we could be materially adversely affected.Our products may not be fully compatible with some or all industry-standard software and hardware. Further, we may be unsuccessful in correcting any such compatibility problems in a timely manner. If our customers are unable to achieve compatibility with software or hardware, we could be materially adversely affected. In addition, the mere announcement of an incompatibility problem relating to our products could have a material adverse effect on our business.Costs related to defective products could have a material adverse effect on us.Products as complex as those we offer may contain defects or failures when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements to existing products are released. We cannot assure you that, despite our testing procedures, errors will not be found in new products or releases after commencement of commercial shipments in the future, which could result in loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products, material recall and replacement costs, loss of revenue, writing down the inventory of defective products, the diversion of the attention of our engineering personnel from product development efforts, defending against litigation related to defective products or related liabilities, including property damage, personal injury, damage to our reputation in the industry and loss of data or intangible property, and could adversely affect our relationships with our customers. In addition, we may have difficulty identifying the end customers of the defective products in the field. As a result, we could incur substantial costs to implement modifications to correct defects. Any of these problems could materially adversely affect our business.We could be subject to potential product liability claims if one of our products causes, or merely appears to have caused, an injury, whether tangible or intangible. Claims may be made by consumers or others selling our products, and we may be subject to claims against us even if an alleged injury is due to the actions of others. A product liability claim, recall or other claim with respect to uninsured liabilities or for amounts in excess of insured liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business.If we fail to maintain the efficiency of our supply chain as we respond to changes in customer demand for our products, our business could be materially adversely affected.Our ability to meet customer demand for our products depends, in part, on our ability to deliver the products our customers want on a timely basis. Accordingly, we rely on our supply chain for the manufacturing, distribution and fulfillment of our products. As we continue to grow our business, expand to high-growth adjacent markets, acquire new customers and strengthen relationships with existing customers, the efficiency of our supply chain will become increasingly important because many of our customers 54tend to have specific requirements for particular products, and specific time-frames in which they require delivery of these products. If we are unable to consistently deliver the right products to our customers on a timely basis in the right locations, our customers may reduce the quantities they order from us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.We outsource to third parties certain supply-chain logistics functions, including portions of our product distribution, transportation management and information technology support services.We rely on third-party providers to operate our regional product distribution centers and to manage the transportation of our work-in-process and finished products among our facilities, to our manufacturing suppliers and to our customers. In addition, we rely on third parties to provide certain information technology services to us, including help desk support, desktop application services, business and software support applications, server and storage administration, datacenter operations, database administration and voice, video and remote access. We cannot guarantee that these providers will fulfill their respective responsibilities in a timely manner in accordance with the contract terms, in which case our internal operations and the distribution of our products to our customers could be materially adversely affected. Also, we cannot guarantee that our contracts with these third-party providers will be renewed, in which case we would have to transition these functions in-house or secure new providers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business if the transition is not executed appropriately.Our stock price is subject to volatility.Our stock price has experienced price and volume fluctuations and could be subject to wide fluctuations in the future. The trading price of our stock may fluctuate widely due to various factors including, actual or anticipated fluctuations in our financial conditions and operating results, changes in financial estimates by us or securities analysts, changes in our capital structure, including issuance of additional debt or equity to the public, interest rate changes, news regarding our products or products of our competitors, and broad market and industry fluctuations. Stock price fluctuations could impact the value of our equity compensation, which could affect our ability to recruit and retain employees. In addition, volatility in our stock price could adversely affect our business and financing opportunities.Worldwide political conditions may adversely affect demand for our products.Worldwide political conditions may create uncertainties that could adversely affect our business. The United States has been and may continue to be involved in armed conflicts that could have a further impact on our sales and our supply chain. The consequences of armed conflict, political instability or civil or military unrest are unpredictable, and we may not be able to foresee events that could have a material adverse effect on us. Terrorist attacks or other hostile acts may negatively affect our operations, or adversely affect demand for our products, and such attacks or related armed conflicts may impact our physical facilities or those of our suppliers or customers. Furthermore, these attacks or hostile acts may make travel and the transportation of our products more difficult and more expensive, which could materially adversely affect us. Any of these events could cause consumer spending to decrease or result in increased volatility in the United States economy and worldwide financial markets.Unfavorable currency exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect us.We have costs, assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies. As a consequence, movements in exchange rates could cause our foreign currency denominated expenses to increase as a percentage of revenue, affecting our profitability and cash flows. Whenever we believe appropriate, we hedge a portion of our short-term foreign currency exposure to protect against fluctuations in currency exchange rates. We determine our total foreign currency exposure using projections of long-term expenditures for items such as payroll. We cannot assure you that these activities will be effective in reducing foreign exchange rate exposure. Failure to do so could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. In addition, the majority of our product sales are denominated in U.S. dollars. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the local currency can cause increases or decreases in the cost of our products in the local currency of such customers. An appreciation of the U.S. dollar relative to the local currency could reduce sales of our products.Our inability to effectively control the sales of our products on the gray market could have a material adverse effect on us.We market and sell our products directly to OEMs and through authorized third-party distributors. From time to time, our products are diverted from our authorized distribution channels and are sold on the “gray market.” Gray market products result in shadow inventory that is not visible to us, thus making it difficult to forecast demand accurately. Also, when gray market products enter the market, we and our distribution channels compete with these heavily discounted gray market products, which adversely affects demand for our products and negatively impact our margins. In addition, our inability to control gray market activities could result in customer satisfaction issues because any time products are purchased outside our authorized distribution channels there is a risk that our customers are buying counterfeit or substandard products, including products that may have been altered, mishandled or damaged, or are used products represented as new.55If we cannot adequately protect our technology or other intellectual property in the United States and abroad, through patents, copyrights, trade secrets, trademarks and other measures, we may lose a competitive advantage and incur significant expenses.We rely on a combination of protections provided by contracts, including confidentiality and nondisclosure agreements, copyrights, patents, trademarks and common law rights, such as trade secrets, to protect our intellectual property. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to adequately protect our technology or other intellectual property from third-party infringement or from misappropriation in the United States and abroad. Any patent licensed by us or issued to us could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented or rights granted there under may not provide a competitive advantage to us.Furthermore, patent applications that we file may not result in issuance of a patent or, if a patent is issued, the patent may not be issued in a form that is advantageous to us. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, others may independently develop similar products, duplicate our products or design around our patents and other rights. In addition, it is difficult to monitor compliance with, and enforce, our intellectual property on a worldwide basis in a cost-effective manner. In jurisdictions where foreign laws provide less intellectual property protection than afforded in the United States and abroad, our technology or other intellectual property may be compromised, and our business would be materially adversely affected.We are party to litigation and may become a party to other claims or litigation that could cause us to incur substantial costs or pay substantial damages or prohibit us from selling our products.From time to time, we are a defendant or plaintiff in various legal actions. For example, as described in Note 12 of our consolidated financial statements, we have been subject to certain claims concerning federal securities laws and corporate governance. On occasion, we receive claims that individuals were allegedly exposed to substances used in our former semiconductor wafer manufacturing facilities and that this alleged exposure caused harm. Litigation can involve complex factual and legal questions, and its outcome is uncertain. If any such claims are asserted, we may seek to obtain a license under the third parties’ intellectual property rights. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain all of the necessary licenses on satisfactory terms, if at all. The award of damages, including material royalty payments, or other types of damages, or the entry of an injunction against the manufacture and sale of some or all of our products could have a material adverse effect on us. We could decide, in the alternative, to redesign our products or to resort to litigation to challenge such claims. We cannot assure you that litigation related to our intellectual property rights or the intellectual property rights of others can always be avoided or successfully concluded.Even if we were to prevail, any litigation could be costly and time-consuming and would divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations, which could have a material adverse effect on us.Our business is subject to potential tax liabilities.We are subject to income taxes in the United States, Canada and other foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. Tax laws are dynamic and subject to change as new laws are passed and new interpretations of the law are issued or applied. The United States. federal government recently enacted significant tax reform, and certain provisions of the new law may adversely affect us. These changes include a federal statutory rate reduction from 35% to 21%, the elimination or reduction of certain domestic deductions and credits and limitations on the deductibility of interest expense. The Tax Reform Act also transitions international taxation from a worldwide system to a modified territorial system and includes base erosion prevention measures on non-U.S. earnings, which has the effect of subjecting certain earnings of our foreign subsidiaries to United States taxation. These changes became effective in 2018. These estimates are subject to further analysis and review which may result in material adjustments in 2018.56In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain, including uncertainties due to the Tax Reform Act. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, we cannot assure you that the final determination of any tax audits and litigation will not be materially different from that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. Should additional taxes be assessed as a result of an audit, assessment or litigation, there could be a material adverse effect on our cash, income tax provision and net income in the period or periods for which that determination is made.We are subject to environmental laws, conflict minerals-related provisions of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act as well as a variety of other laws or regulations that could result in additional costs and liabilities.Our operations and properties have in the past been and continue to be subject to various United States and foreign laws and regulations, including those relating to materials used in our products and manufacturing processes, discharge of pollutants into the environment, the treatment, transport, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and remediation of contamination. These laws and regulations require our suppliers to obtain permits for operations making our products, including the discharge of air pollutants and wastewater. Although our management systems are designed to oversee our suppliers’ compliance, we cannot assure you that our suppliers have been or will be at all times in complete compliance with such laws, regulations and permits. These regulations affect semiconductor devices and packaging. As regulations restricting materials in electronic products continue to increase around the world, there is a risk that the cost, quality and manufacturing yields of products that are subject to these restrictions, may be less favorable compared to products that are not subject to such restrictions, or that the transition to compliant products may not meet customer roadmaps, or produce sudden changes in demand, which may result in excess inventory. A number of jurisdictions including the EU, Australia, California and China are developing or have finalized market entry or public procurement regulations for computers and servers based on ENERGY STAR specifications as well as additional energy consumption limits. There is the potential for certain of our products being excluded from some of these markets which could materially adversely affect us.Certain environmental laws, including the United States Comprehensive, Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, or the Superfund Act, impose strict or, under certain circumstances, joint and several liability on current and previous owners or operators of real property for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous substances and impose liability for damages to natural resources. These laws often impose liability even if the owner or operator did not know of, or was not responsible for, the release of such hazardous substances. These environmental laws also assess liability on persons who arrange for hazardous substances to be sent to disposal or treatment facilities when such facilities are found to be contaminated. Such persons can be responsible for cleanup costs even if they never owned or operated the contaminated facility. We have been named as a responsible party at three Superfund sites in Sunnyvale, California. Although we have not yet been, we could be named a potentially responsible party at other Superfund or contaminated sites in the future. In addition, contamination that has not yet been identified could exist at our other facilities.Under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, the SEC adopted disclosure and reporting requirements for companies that use “conflict” minerals originating from the Democratic Republic of Congo or adjoining countries. We continue to incur additional costs associated with complying with these requirements, such as costs related to developing internal controls for the due diligence process, determining the source of any conflict minerals used in our products, auditing the process and reporting to our customers and the SEC. In addition to the SEC regulation, the European Union, China and other jurisdictions are developing new policies focused on conflict minerals that may impact and increase the cost of our compliance program. Also, since our supply chain is complex, we may face reputational challenges if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins of the subject minerals. Moreover, we are likely to encounter challenges to satisfy those customers who require that all of the components of our products are certified as “conflict free.” If we cannot satisfy these customers, they may choose a competitor’s products.The United States federal government has issued new policies for federal procurement focused on eradicating the practice of forced labor and human trafficking. In addition, the United Kingdom and the State of California have issued laws that require us to disclose our policy and practices for identifying and eliminating forced labor and human trafficking in our supply chain. Several customers as well as the Responsible Business Alliance have also issued expectations to eliminate these practices that may impact us. While we have a policy and management systems to identify and avoid these practices in our supply chain, we cannot guarantee that our suppliers will always be in conformance to these laws and expectations. We may face enforcement liability and reputational challenges if we are unable to sufficiently meet these expectations. Moreover, we are likely to encounter challenges with customers if we cannot satisfy their forced and trafficked labor polices and they may choose a competitor’s product.57ITEM 6.EXHIBITS 3.1 Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., dated May 2, 2018.31.1 Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.31.2 Certification of the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.32.1 Certification of the Principal Executive Officer pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.32.2 Certification of the Principal Financial Officer pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.101.INS XBRL Instance Document.101.SCH XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document.101.CAL XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document.101.DEF XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document.101.LAB XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document.101.PRE XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document. 58SIGNATUREPursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.