See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company,” and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. All material intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. The condensed consolidated financial statements included herein are unaudited. In the opinion of management, all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America have been included. The results of operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the full year. Deferred income tax benefit and Net change in accrued pension and postretirement benefits have been presented as separate line items within cash from operating activities for the prior period in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flow, in order to conform to the current period presentation, which had no impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Topic 606 supersedes previous revenue recognition guidance and requires entities to recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for such goods or services. The Company adopted Topic 606 as of January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective transition method applied to those contracts which were not completed as of January 1, 2018. Under this transition method, the Company’s results in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 are presented under Topic 606, while the comparative results for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 were not retrospectively adjusted, as such results were recognized in accordance with the revenue recognition policy discussed under Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in Note 1 of the Company’s 2017 Annual Report. The vast majority of our sales continue to be recognized when products are shipped from our facilities or delivered to our customers, depending on the respective contractual terms. For a nominal portion of our contracts where the accounting did change, the adoption of Topic 606 resulted in an increase to the opening balance of retained earnings of approximately $3.2 as of January 1, 2018. This impact was primarily due to the acceleration of net sales and associated net income related to certain uncompleted contracts for the manufacture of goods with no alternative use and for which we have an enforceable right to payment, including a reasonable profit margin, from the customer for performance completed to date. For these contracts, we now recognize revenue over time as control of the goods transfers, rather than when the goods are delivered, and title, risk and reward of ownership are passed to the customer, as under previous guidance. Refer to Note 3 herein for further discussion regarding revenue recognition and related policies. Specifically, ASU 2017‑07 requires employers to report the service costs for providing pensions to employees in the same line item as other employee compensation costs, while requiring other pension-related costs, such as interest costs, amortization of pension-related costs from prior periods, and the gains or losses on plan assets, to be reported separately and outside of the subtotal of operating income. ASU 2017‑07 is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2017. The Company adopted ASU 2017‑07 in the first quarter of 2018, which did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. ASU 2017‑09 is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2017, with early adoption permitted, and requires prospective application to changes in terms or conditions of awards occurring on or after the adoption date. The Company adopted ASU 2017‑09 in the first quarter of 2018, which did not have any impact on our consolidated financial statements. SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. Previously, ASC 740 did not directly address incomplete accounting for the effects of a change in tax laws or rates. Refer to Note 14 herein for further details regarding the Tax Act. For leases with a term of twelve months or less, ASU 2016‑02 permits an entity to make an accounting policy election to not recognize a right-of-use asset nor lease liability, but rather to recognize such leases as lease expense, generally on a straight-line basis over the lease term. In July 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-10, Codification Improvements to Topic 842, Leases, which clarified various aspects of the guidance under ASU 2016-02. ASU 2016‑02 is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2018, with early adoption permitted. Originally, entities were required to adopt ASU 2016-02 using a modified retrospective approach, which required prior periods to be presented under this new standard. While the Company continues to evaluate the impact that ASU 2016-02 will have on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures, the actual impact of the standard will be dependent upon the Company’s lease portfolio at adoption. ASU 2016-02 also provides various optional practical expedients in transition, which we continue to evaluate. The Company will adopt ASU 2016-02 in the first quarter of 2019 using the modified retrospective transition approach allowed under ASU 2018-11, and will recognize the cumulative effect of applying the new standard as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings as of January 1, 2019. Upon adoption, we will recognize a right-of-use asset and a corresponding lease liability for our operating lease commitments on our balance sheet, and will also provide new disclosures about our leasing activities. The stranded tax effects result from the remeasurement of net deferred tax positions that were originally recorded in comprehensive income but whose remeasurement was reflected in the income statement in 2017. ASU 2018-02 only applies to the effects of the Tax Act and is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2018, with early adoption permitted. ASU 2018-02 may be applied either at the beginning of the period of adoption or on a retrospective basis to any period in which the impacts of the Tax Act are recognized. The comparative prior periods will not be restated and will continue to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for those periods. The adoption of ASU 2018-02 will result in the reclassification of the stranded tax effects of the Tax Act from Accumulated other comprehensive loss to Retained earnings on the consolidated balance sheet. The Company plans to early adopt ASU 2018-02 in the fourth quarter of 2018, as of October 1, 2018, which will not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. Among other changes, this standard requires certain additional disclosure surrounding Level 3 assets, including changes in unrealized gains or losses in other comprehensive income and certain inputs in those measurements. ASU 2018-13 is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2019. Certain amended or eliminated disclosures in this standard may be adopted early, while certain additional disclosure requirements in this standard can be adopted on its effective date. In addition, certain changes in the standard require retrospective adoption, while other changes must be adopted prospectively. The Company is currently evaluating ASU 2018-13 and its impact on our consolidated financial statements. ASU 2018-14 does not amend the interim disclosure requirements of existing guidance and is effective for fiscal years ending after December 31, 2020, with early adoption permitted and must be applied on a retrospective basis. The Company is currently evaluating ASU 2018-14 and its impact on our consolidated financial statements. The Securities and Exchange Commission has also recently issued several final rules, including but not limited to SEC Final Rule Release No. This Final Rule is intended to facilitate disclosure information provided to investors and simplify compliance without significantly impacting the mix of information provided to investors. The amendments also expand the disclosure requirements regarding the analysis of stockholders' equity for interim financial statements, in which entities will be required to present a reconciliation for each period for which a statement of comprehensive income is required to be filed. While we have not yet adopted the Final Rule which is effective on November 5, 2018, we do not anticipate any material impact to our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures upon adoption. The adoption of Topic 606 did not have a material impact on the Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements. The following is a summary of the Company’s revenue recognition and related accounting policies and disclosures resulting from the adoption of Topic 606. Revenues are derived from contracts with customers, which in most cases are customer purchase orders that may be governed by master sales agreements. For each contract, the promise to transfer the control of the products, each of which is individually distinct, is considered to be the identified performance obligation. As part of the consideration promised in each contract, the Company evaluates the customer’s credit risk. Our contracts do not have any significant financing components, as payment terms are generally due net 30 to 120 days after delivery. We allocate the transaction price to each distinct product based on its relative standalone selling price. Taxes assessed by governmental authorities and collected from the customer, including but not limited to sales and use taxes and value-added taxes, are not included in the transaction price. With limited exceptions, the Company recognizes revenue at the point in time when we ship or deliver the product from our manufacturing facility to our customer, when our customer accepts and has legal title of the goods, and the Company has a present right to payment for such goods. Less than 5% of our net sales are recognized over time, as the associated contracts relate to the sale of goods with no alternative use as they are only sold to a single customer and whose underlying contract terms provide the Company with an enforceable right to payment, including a reasonable profit margin, for performance completed to date, in the event of customer termination. For the contracts recognized over time, we typically record revenue using the input method, based on the materials and labor costs incurred to date relative to the contract’s total estimated costs. This method reasonably depicts when and as control of the goods transfers to the customer, since it measures our progress in producing the goods, which is generally commensurate with this transfer of control. Since we typically invoice our customers at the same time that we satisfy our performance obligations, we do not have significant contract assets or contract liabilities related to our contracts with customers recorded in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. The Company receives customer orders negotiated with multiple delivery dates that may extend across more than one reporting period until the contract is fulfilled, the end of the order period is reached, or a pre-determined maximum order value has been reached. Orders typically fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on customer demand and general business conditions, and it is generally expected that a substantial portion of our remaining performance obligations will be fulfilled within three months. Nearly all of our performance obligations are fulfilled within one year. Since our performance obligations are part of contracts that generally have original durations of one year or less, we have elected not to disclose the aggregate amount of transaction prices associated with unsatisfied or partially unsatisfied performance obligations as of September 30, 2018. The Company maintains a reserve for unprocessed and estimated future price adjustment claims and returns as a refund liability. Similarly, sales returns and allowances are recorded based on historical return rates, as a reduction to revenue with a corresponding reduction to cost of sales for the estimated cost of inventory that is expected to be returned. These reserves were not significant upon the adoption of Topic 606 nor were they significant in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of September 30, 2018. The warranty claim is generally limited to a credit equal to the purchase price or a promise to repair or replace the product for a specified period of time at no additional charge. We estimate our warranty liability based on historical experience, product history, and current trends, and record warranty expense in cost of sales in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income. Warranty liabilities and related warranty expense have not been and were not significant in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018. Shipping and handling costs are generally charged to and paid by the majority of our customers as part of the contract. Shipping and handling costs are included in Cost of sales in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income. Contract assets represent unbilled receivables, which generally arise when revenue recognized over time exceed amounts billed to customers. Contract liabilities represent billings or advanced consideration received from customers in excess of revenue recognized to date. As the Company’s performance obligations are typically less than one year, these amounts are generally recorded as current in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets within Other current assets or Other accrued expenses as of September 30, 2018. Contract assets and contract liabilities recorded in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets were not significant both at the date of adoption and as of September 30, 2018. Otherwise, such costs are expensed as incurred and recorded within Selling, general and administrative expenses in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income. Incremental costs to fulfill customer orders, which are mostly comprised of pre-production and set-up costs, are generally capitalized to the extent such costs are contractually guaranteed to be reimbursed by the customer. Otherwise, such costs are expensed as incurred. Capitalized contract costs to obtain a contract or to fulfill a contract that are not accounted for under other existing accounting standards are recorded as either other current or long-term assets on the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, depending on the timing of when the Company expects to recognize the expense, and are generally amortized consistent with the timing of when transfer of control of the related goods occurs. Such capitalized contract costs were not significant both at the date of adoption and as of September 30, 2018, and the related amortization expense was not significant for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018. The Company organizes its reportable business segments based upon similar economic characteristics and business groupings of products, services and customers. These reportable business segments are determined based upon how the Company reviews its businesses, assesses operating performance and makes investing and resource allocation decisions. The Cable Products and Solutions segment primarily designs, manufactures and markets cable, value-add products and components for use primarily in the broadband communications and information technology markets as well as certain applications in other markets. The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those for the Company as a whole and are described herein and in Note 1 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in the Company’s 2017 Annual Report. The Company evaluates the performance of business units on, among other things, profit or loss from operations before interest, headquarters’ expense allocations, stock-based compensation expense, income taxes, amortization related to certain intangible assets and nonrecurring gains and losses. Earnings per share is determined after the impact of the noncontrolling interests’ share in net income of the Company. In addition, the equity attributable to noncontrolling interests is presented as a separate caption within equity. During the three months ended March 31, 2018, the Company repurchased 4.2 million shares of its common stock for $382.0 under the 2017 Stock Repurchase Program, bringing total repurchases under this program to approximately 12.6 million shares or $1,000.0, thus completing the 2017 Stock Repurchase Program. During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, the Company repurchased 0.4 million and 3.5 million shares of its common stock for $34.8 and $298.2, respectively, under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program. These treasury shares have been retired by the Company, accordingly common stock and retained earnings were reduced. The Company has not repurchased any additional shares of its common stock through October 24, 2018, and has remaining authorization to purchase up to approximately $1,701.8 of its common stock under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program. The price and timing of any future purchases under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program will depend on factors such as levels of cash generation from operations, the volume of stock option exercises by employees, cash requirements for acquisitions, dividends, economic and market conditions and stock price. Diluted EPS is computed by dividing net income attributable to Amphenol Corporation by the weighted average number of common shares and dilutive common shares outstanding, which relates to stock options. The Company records a loss contingency liability when a loss is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated. Although the potential liability with respect to certain of such legal actions cannot be reasonably estimated, none of such matters is expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The Company’s legal costs associated with defending itself are recorded to expense as incurred. The Company has also received a subpoena from the Department of Defense, Office of the Inspector General, requesting documents pertaining to certain products manufactured by the Company’s Military and Aerospace Group that are purchased or used by the U.S. government. The Company is cooperating with the request. The inquiry is in the early stages and the Company is unable to estimate the timing or outcome of the matter. The Company believes that its operations are currently in substantial compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations and that the costs of continuing compliance will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, the Company recognized aggregate income tax benefits associated with stock-based compensation of $8.9 and $19.5, respectively, in the provision for income taxes in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income, which include the excess tax benefits from option exercises of $7.0 and $16.6, respectively. For the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, the Company’s income before income taxes was reduced for stock-based compensation expense of $40.4 and $37.1, respectively. In addition, for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, the Company recognized aggregate income tax benefits associated with stock-based compensation of $19.7 and $54.7, respectively, which include the excess tax benefits from option exercises of $14.1 and $45.8, respectively. The impact associated with recognizing excess tax benefits from option exercises in the provision for income taxes on our consolidated financial statements could result in significant fluctuations in our effective tax rate in the future, since the provision for income taxes will be impacted by the timing and intrinsic value of future stock-based compensation award exercises. Stock-based compensation expense includes the estimated effects of forfeitures, which are adjusted over the requisite service period to the extent actual forfeitures differ or are expected to differ from such estimates. Changes in estimated forfeitures are recognized in the period of change and impact the amount of expense to be recognized in future periods. The expense incurred for stock-based compensation plans is included in Selling, general and administrative expenses in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income. A committee of the Company’s Board of Directors has been authorized to grant stock options pursuant to the 2017 Employee Option Plan. As of September 30, 2018, there were 17,002,620 shares of Common Stock available for the granting of additional stock options under the 2017 Employee Option Plan. No additional stock options will be granted under the 2009 Employee Option Plan. The 2000 Stock Purchase and Option Plan for Key Employees of Amphenol and Subsidiaries, as amended, expired in May 2011 and all options granted thereunder have been either exercised or forfeited. Options granted under the 2017 Employee Option Plan and the 2009 Employee Option Plan generally vest ratably over a period of five years from the date of grant and are generally exercisable over a period of ten years from the date of grant. The 2004 Directors Option Plan is administered by the Company’s Board of Directors. The 2004 Directors Option Plan expired in May 2014, except that its terms continue with respect to outstanding options granted thereunder. Options were last granted under the 2004 Directors Option Plan in May 2011. Options granted under the 2004 Directors Option Plan are fully vested and are generally exercisable over a period of ten years from the date of grant. The grant-date fair value of each share grant is determined based on the closing share price of the Company’s Common Stock on the date of the grant. The fair value is then amortized on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period of the awards, which is generally the vesting period. Use of a valuation model for option grants requires management to make certain assumptions with respect to selected model inputs. Expected share price volatility is calculated based on the historical volatility of the Common Stock and implied volatility derived from related exchange traded options. The average expected life is based on the contractual term of the option and expected exercise and historical post-vesting termination experience. The risk-free interest rate is based on U.S. Treasury zero-coupon issuances with a remaining term equal to the expected life assumed at the date of grant. The expected annual dividend per share is based on the Company’s dividend rate. The 2012 Directors Restricted Stock Plan is administered by the Company’s Board of Directors. As of September 30, 2018, the number of restricted shares available for grant under the 2012 Directors Restricted Stock Plan was 109,695. Restricted shares granted under the 2012 Directors Restricted Stock Plan generally vest on the first anniversary of the grant date. Grants under the 2012 Directors Restricted Stock Plan entitle the holder to receive shares of the Company’s Common Stock without payment. The U.S. Plans’ benefits are generally based on years of service and compensation and are generally noncontributory. Certain U.S. employees not covered by the U.S. Plans are covered by defined contribution plans. In January 2018, the Company made a voluntary cash contribution of approximately $81.0 to fully fund the U.S. Plans, and estimates that, based on current actuarial calculations, cash contributions to the Plans will aggregate approximately $90.0 in 2018. The timing and amount of cash contributions in subsequent years will depend on a number of factors, including the investment performance of the Plans’ assets. This voluntary cash contribution made in the first quarter of 2018 is reflected as cash used in operating activities within Net change in accrued pension and postretirement benefits in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flow. The Company offers various defined contribution plans for certain U.S. and foreign employees. Participation in these plans is based on certain eligibility requirements. The Company matches the majority of employee contributions to the U.S. defined contribution plans with cash contributions up to a maximum of 5% of eligible compensation. During the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, the Company provided matching contributions to the U.S. defined contribution plans of approximately $6.2 and $5.0, respectively. The Company is in the process of completing its analyses of the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. The Company anticipates that the final assessments of values will not differ materially from the preliminary assessments. These acquisitions were not material to the Company either individually or in the aggregate. Such acquisition-related expenses are separately presented in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income. In 2018, as part of our annual evaluation, the Company utilized the option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is necessary to perform the quantitative goodwill impairment assessment. As part of this assessment, the Company reviews qualitative factors which include, but are not limited to, economic, market and industry conditions, as well as the financial performance of each reporting unit. In accordance with applicable guidance, an entity is not required to calculate the fair value of a reporting unit if, after assessing these qualitative factors, the Company determines that it is more likely than not that its reporting unit’s fair value is greater than its carrying amount. During the third quarter, the Company determined that it was more likely than not that the fair value of its reporting units exceeded their respective carrying amounts and therefore, a quantitative assessment was not required. There has been no goodwill impairment in 2018, 2017 or 2016 in connection with our impairment tests. The amortization expense for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 was approximately $11.6 and $12.3, respectively. The amortization expense for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 was approximately $35.4 and $36.4, respectively. As of September 30, 2018, amortization expense relating to the Company’s current intangible assets estimated for the remainder of 2018 is approximately $11.5 and for each of the next five fiscal years is approximately $42.7 in 2019, $37.1 in 2020, $32.4 in 2021, $24.9 in 2022 and $22.2 in 2023. The Company reviews its identifiable intangible assets subject to amortization whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount may not be recoverable, while any indefinite-lived intangible assets that are not subject to amortization are reviewed at least annually for impairment. In the third quarter of 2018, the Company performed its annual assessment of these identifiable indefinite-lived intangible assets. Based on our qualitative assessment, the Company determined that it was more likely than not that the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible assets exceeded their respective carrying amounts. There has been no impairment in 2018, 2017 or 2016 as a result of such reviews. The Company may utilize the Revolving Credit Facility for general corporate purposes. At September 30, 2018, there were no borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility. The Revolving Credit Facility requires payment of certain annual agency and commitment fees and requires that the Company satisfy certain financial covenants. At September 30, 2018, the Company was in compliance with the financial covenants under the Revolving Credit Facility. The maturities of the USCP Notes vary, but may not exceed 397 days from the date of issue. The USCP Notes are sold under customary terms in the commercial paper market and may be issued at a discount from par, or, alternatively, may be sold at par, and bear varying interest rates on a fixed or floating basis. The average interest rate on the U.S. Commercial Paper as of September 30, 2018 was 2.36%. The maturities of the ECP Notes will vary, but may not exceed 183 days from the date of issue. The ECP Notes are sold under customary terms in the euro-commercial paper market and may be issued at par or a discount therefrom or a premium thereto and bear varying interest rates on a fixed or floating basis. The ECP Notes may be issued in Euros, Sterling, U.S. Dollars or other currencies. Amounts available under the Commercial Paper Programs may be borrowed, repaid and re-borrowed from time to time. Net proceeds of the issuances of the Commercial Paper are expected to be used for general corporate purposes. The Commercial Paper is classified as long-term debt in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets since the Company has the intent and ability to refinance the Commercial Paper on a long-term basis using the Revolving Credit Facility. The carrying value of Commercial Paper borrowings approximates their fair value. Interest on each series of U.S. Senior Notes is payable semiannually. The Company may, at its option, redeem some or all of any series of U.S. Senior Notes at any time subject to certain terms and conditions, which include paying 100% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of repurchase and, with certain exceptions, a make-whole premium. The 2.55% Senior Notes are due in January 2019 and are therefore recorded, net of the related unamortized discount and debt issuance costs, within Current portion of long-term debt in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as of September 30, 2018. The U.S. Senior Notes contain certain financial and non-financial covenants. At September 30, 2018, the Company was in compliance with the financial covenants under its U.S. Senior Notes. During the first nine months of 2017, the Company issued two senior notes, aggregating $750.0 principal amount of unsecured notes, and incurred approximately $5.2 of costs related to the issuances of these senior notes, which costs are amortized to interest expense over the respective terms of the debt. In September 2017, the Company used the net proceeds from these senior notes to repay all of its outstanding $375.0 principal amount of 1.55% Senior Notes that were due September 15, 2017, with the remainder of the net proceeds being used for general corporate purposes. The cash flow impact associated with both the issuances of these senior notes and the repayment of the 1.55% Senior Notes during the first nine months of 2017 is reflected within cash flows from financing activities within the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flow. The 2028 Euro Notes are unsecured and rank equally in right of payment with the Euro Issuer’s other unsecured senior indebtedness, and are guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by the Company. The Company may, at its option, redeem some or all of the 2028 Euro Notes at any time by paying 100% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of repurchase, and if redeemed prior to July 8, 2028, a make-whole premium. The Company used a portion of the net proceeds from the 2028 Euro Notes to repay a portion of the outstanding amounts under its Commercial Paper Programs, with the remainder of the net proceeds being used for general corporate purposes. The 2028 Euro Notes contain certain financial and non-financial covenants. For the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, stock option exercise activity had the impact of lowering our Provision for income taxes by approximately $14.1 and $45.8, respectively, and lowering our effective tax rate by approximately 120 basis points and 470 basis points, respectively. These three components were provisional amounts recorded in accordance with Staff Accounting Bulletin No. Due to the timing of the Tax Act’s enactment and the complexity of its provisions, the Company has not completed its accounting for the impact of the Tax Act. The Company continues to analyze guidance and technical interpretations of the provisions of the Tax Act, as well as refine, analyze and update the underlying data, computations and assumptions used to prepare these provisional amounts. The Company did not make any adjustments to the Tax Act Charge in the first nine months of 2018. In accordance with ASU 2018-05, the Company will complete its accounting for the income tax effects of the Tax Act within the one-year measurement period in 2018 once the Company has obtained, prepared and fully analyzed all the necessary information related to all three components of the Tax Act Charge recorded in the fourth quarter of 2017. The Company will pay the Transition Tax, net of applicable tax credits and deductions, in annual installments until 2025, as permitted under the Tax Act. The Company paid its first annual installment of the Transition Tax of approximately $18.0 in the second quarter of 2018. The Company operates in the U.S. and numerous foreign taxable jurisdictions, and at any point in time has numerous audits underway at various stages of completion. With few exceptions, the Company is subject to income tax examinations by tax authorities for the years 2013 and after. The Company is generally not able to precisely estimate the ultimate settlement amounts or timing until the close of an audit. The Company evaluates its tax positions and establishes liabilities for uncertain tax positions that may be challenged by tax authorities and may not be fully sustained, despite the Company’s belief that the underlying tax positions are fully supportable. As of September 30, 2018, the amount of the liability for unrecognized tax benefits, including penalties and interest, which if recognized would impact the effective tax rate, was approximately $125.9, which is included in Other long-term liabilities in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. Unrecognized tax benefits are reviewed on an ongoing basis and are adjusted for changing facts and circumstances, including progress of tax audits and the closing of statutes of limitation. Based on information currently available, management anticipates that over the next twelve-month period, audit activity could be completed and statutes of limitation may close relating to existing unrecognized tax benefits of approximately $15.5. These requirements establish market or observable inputs as the preferred source of values. Assumptions based on hypothetical transactions are used in the absence of market inputs. The Company does not have any non-financial instruments accounted for at fair value on a recurring basis. The valuation techniques required are based upon observable and unobservable inputs. Observable inputs reflect market data obtained from independent sources, while unobservable inputs reflect the Company’s market assumptions. The Company believes that the assets or liabilities subject to such standards with fair value disclosure requirements are short-term investments and derivative instruments. Substantially all of the Company’s short-term investments consist of certificates of deposit with original maturities of twelve months or less and as such, are considered as Level 1 in the fair value hierarchy as they are traded in active markets for identical assets. The carrying amounts of these instruments, the majority of which are in non-U.S. bank accounts, approximate their fair value. The Company’s derivative instruments represent foreign exchange rate forward contracts, which are valued using bank quotations based on market observable inputs such as forward and spot rates and are therefore classified as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. The impact of the credit risk related to these financial assets is immaterial. The fair values of the forward contracts are recorded within Other current assets, Intangibles, net and other long-term assets, Other accrued expenses or Other long-term liabilities in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, depending on their value and remaining contractual period. The following discussion and analysis also includes references to certain non-GAAP financial measures, which are defined in the “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” section below, including “Constant Currency Net Sales Growth” and “Organic Net Sales Growth”. For purposes of the following discussion, the terms “constant currencies” and “organically” have the same meaning as these aforementioned non-GAAP financial measures. Refer to “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” within this Item 2 for more information, including our reasons for including the non-GAAP financial measures and material limitations with respect to the usefulness of the measures. Forward-looking statements by their nature address matters that are, to different degrees, uncertain, such as statements about expected earnings, revenues, growth, liquidity or other financial matters. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made. Such forward-looking statements may also be impacted by, among other things, clarifications to and additional guidance under the Tax Act. More specifically, on December 22, 2017, the Tax Act was enacted and it significantly revised U.S. corporate income tax law by, among other things, reducing the U.S. corporate income tax rate to 21% and implementing a modified territorial tax system that includes a one-time transition tax on deemed repatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries. The provisional income tax charge recorded in the fourth quarter of 2017 incorporated assumptions made based on the Company’s current interpretation of the Tax Act and information then available. The Company continues to obtain, prepare and fully analyze all of the necessary information in order to complete its accounting of the Tax Act, which may require adjustments in the fourth quarter of 2018 related to this charge. A further description of these uncertainties and other risks can be found in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and the Company’s other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These or other uncertainties may cause the Company’s actual future results to be materially different than those expressed in any forward-looking statements. The Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements. The three components of the Tax Act Charge are provisional amounts recorded in accordance with Staff Accounting Bulletin No. SAB 118 addresses the application of U.S. GAAP in situations where a registrant does not have the necessary information available, prepared, or analyzed in reasonable detail to complete the accounting for certain income tax effects of the Tax Act. Due to the timing of the Tax Act’s enactment and the complexity of its provisions, the Company has not completed its accounting for the impact of the Tax Act. The Company continues to analyze guidance and technical interpretations of the provisions of the Tax Act, as well as refine, analyze and update the underlying data, computations and assumptions used to prepare the Tax Act Charge. In accordance with ASU 2018-05, the Company will complete its accounting for the income tax effects of the Tax Act within the one-year measurement period in 2018, once the Company has obtained, prepared and fully analyzed all the necessary information related to all three components of the Tax Act Charge recorded in the fourth quarter of 2017. The Company did not make any adjustments to the Tax Act Charge during the first nine months of 2018. Net sales were $5,977.3 in the first nine months of 2018 compared to $5,067.4 in the first nine months of 2017, which represented an increase of 18% in U.S. dollars, 16% in constant currencies and 13% organically over the same respective prior year period. Such amount is calculated by subtracting current year net sales translated at average foreign currency exchange rates for the respective prior periods from current year reported net sales, taken as a percentage of the respective prior period net sales. The comparatively stronger U.S. dollar for the third quarter of 2018 had the effect of decreasing sales by approximately $15.6, compared to the same period in 2017. The comparatively weaker U.S. dollar for the first nine months of 2018 had the effect of increasing sales by approximately $87.2, compared to the same period in 2017. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased to $244.0 or 11.5% of net sales and $710.6 or 11.9% of net sales for the third quarter and first nine months of 2018, respectively, compared to $228.2 or 12.4% of net sales and $642.4 or 12.7% of net sales for the third quarter and first nine months of 2017, respectively. Administrative expenses represented approximately 4.6% and 4.8% of net sales for the third quarter and first nine months of 2018, respectively, and represented approximately 4.8% and 4.9% of net sales for the third quarter and first nine months of 2017, respectively. Research and development expenses represented approximately 2.6% and 2.7% of net sales for the third quarter and first nine months of 2018, respectively, and represented 2.8% of net sales for both the third quarter and first nine months of 2017. Selling and marketing expenses represented approximately 4.2% and 4.4% of net sales for the third quarter and first nine months of 2018, respectively, and represented approximately 4.8% and 5.0% of net sales for the third quarter and first nine months of 2017, respectively. These expenses had an impact on net income of $3.7 or $0.01 per share for the nine months ended September 30, 2017. Excluding the effect of these acquisition-related expenses, Adjusted Operating Income and Adjusted Operating Margin, as defined in the “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” section below, was $1,032.2 or 20.4% of net sales for the nine months ended September 30, 2017. The increase in the Adjusted Operating Margin for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the same respective periods in 2017, was driven primarily by an increase in operating margin for the Interconnect Products and Assemblies segment. Operating income for the Interconnect Products and Assemblies segment for the third quarter and first nine months of 2018 was $458.1 or 22.7% of net sales and $1,268.9 or 22.4% of net sales, respectively, compared to $388.3 or 22.4% of net sales and $1,060.8 or 22.3% of net sales for the third quarter and first nine months of 2017, respectively. The increase in operating margin for the Interconnect Products and Assemblies segment for the third quarter and first nine months of 2018, compared to the same respective periods of 2017, resulted primarily from higher sales volumes combined with strong operating execution. Operating income for the Cable Products and Solutions segment for the third quarter and first nine months of 2018 was $14.4 or 13.1% of net sales and $40.4 or 12.7% of net sales, respectively, compared to $14.3 or 13.1% of net sales and $44.0 or 14.0% of net sales for the third quarter and first nine months of 2017, respectively. The decrease in operating margin for the Cable Products and Solutions segment for the first nine months of 2018, compared to the same respective period of 2017, was primarily driven by increases in certain commodity costs. Interest expense for the third quarter and first nine months of 2018 was $24.8 and $75.3, respectively, compared to $24.6 and $67.3 for the third quarter and first nine months of 2017, respectively. The increase in interest expense for the first nine months of 2018 is primarily due to higher average interest rates associated with the Company’s commercial paper borrowings as well as the senior note issuances in April 2017, along with higher average debt levels used to fund the Company’s dividend and stock buyback programs. Provision for income taxes for the third quarter and first nine months of 2018 was at an effective tax rate of 23.8% and 24.3%, respectively, compared to 21.8% for both the third quarter and first nine months of 2017. For the third quarter and first nine months of 2018 and 2017, the excess tax benefits resulting from stock option exercise activity had the impact of lowering the effective tax rate and increasing earnings per share by the amounts noted in the table below. Excluding the effect of these items, the Adjusted Effective Tax Rate, a non-GAAP financial measure as defined in the “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” section below within this Item 2, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 was 25.5%, and for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 was 26.5%, as reconciled in the tables below to the comparable effective tax rate based on GAAP results. Refer to Note 14 of the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information related to income taxes. Excluding the effect of the excess tax benefits related to stock-based compensation and acquisition-related expenses, Adjusted Net Income attributable to Amphenol Corporation and Adjusted Diluted EPS, non-GAAP financial measures as defined in the “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” section below within this Item 2, were $309.6 and $0.99, respectively, for the third quarter of 2018, compared to $260.9 and $0.83, respectively, for the third quarter of 2017. Net income attributable to Amphenol Corporation and Diluted EPS were $866.9 and $2.76, respectively, for the first nine months of 2018, compared to $753.9 and $2.39, respectively, for the first nine months of 2017. Excluding the effect of the excess tax benefits related to stock-based compensation and acquisition-related expenses, Adjusted Net Income attributable to Amphenol Corporation and Adjusted Diluted EPS, were $852.8 and $2.72, respectively, for the first nine months of 2018, compared to $711.8 and $2.26, respectively, for the first nine months of 2017. The vast majority of the Company’s cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments on hand as of December 31, 2017 and September 30, 2018 is located outside of the United States. Prior to the Tax Act, the Company asserted its intention to indefinitely reinvest outside of the United States all of its foreign earnings not otherwise distributed currently. For earnings occurring on or after January 1, 2018, the Tax Act’s change to a modified territorial tax system in the United States has significantly reduced the U.S. tax expense associated with the remittance of foreign earnings, among other changes. The Tax Act also imposed a one-time transition tax on all of the Company’s pre-2018 accumulated unremitted foreign earnings. As a result, on December 31, 2017, the Company recorded a provisional U.S. tax expense for the Transition Tax. This Transition Tax on the deemed repatriation of the accumulated unremitted earnings and profits of foreign subsidiaries, will be paid, net of applicable tax credits and deductions, in annual installments until 2025, as permitted under the Tax Act. In the second quarter of 2018, the Company paid the first annual installment of the Transition Tax of approximately $18.0. The Company does not believe that these future tax payments will have a significant impact on its liquidity or capital resources. Since the Company’s intention on December 31, 2017 due to the Tax Act changes was to repatriate most of its pre-2018 accumulated earnings over time, it also recorded a provisional foreign and U.S. state and local tax cost related to such repatriation. Such taxes will be paid when those respective accumulated earnings are repatriated. In the first nine months of 2018, the Company repatriated a significant amount of its foreign accumulated cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments and as a result, paid approximately $43.0 of foreign and U.S. state and local taxes, the majority of which was paid in the second quarter of 2018. The Company intends to continue to repatriate certain foreign earnings generated prior to 2018. The Company also intends to indefinitely reinvest outside of the United States all of its post-2017 foreign earnings not otherwise distributed currently. Cash flow provided by operating activities was $734.5 in the first nine months of 2018 compared to $716.4 in the first nine months of 2017. In the first nine months of 2018, the components of working capital as presented on the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flow increased $246.4, excluding the impact of acquisitions and foreign currency translation, primarily due to an increase in inventories of $184.2, accounts receivable of $182.5 and other current assets of $61.3, partially offset by increases in accounts payable of $150.8 and accrued liabilities, including income taxes, of $30.8. In the first nine months of 2017, the components of working capital as presented on the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flow increased $252.8, excluding the impact of acquisitions and foreign currency translation, primarily due to increases in accounts receivable, inventories and other current assets of $141.2, $107.4 and $61.9, respectively, partially offset by an increase in accounts payable of $103.4. The following describes the significant changes in the amounts as presented on the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets at September 30, 2018 as compared to December 31, 2017. Days sales outstanding at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017 were approximately 73 days. Inventories increased $138.6 to $1,245.5, primarily to support higher sales levels, partially offset by Translation. Inventory days at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017 were 78 and 76 days, respectively. Other current assets increased $81.8 to $278.6, primarily due to the increase in other receivables as well as the recording of contract assets of $27.9 as of September 30, 2018 as a result of the adoption of Topic 606. Property, plant and equipment, net, increased $69.6 to $886.4, primarily due to capital additions of $253.6, partially offset by depreciation of $155.3 and Translation. Goodwill increased $71.1 to $4,113.7, primarily as a result of goodwill recognized related to three acquisitions in the Interconnect Products and Assemblies segment that closed during the first nine months of 2018, which was partially offset by Translation. Intangibles, net and other long-term assets decreased $27.5 to $461.0, primarily as a result of amortization related to the Company’s intangible assets. Accounts payable increased $138.4 to $1,014.0, primarily as a result of increased purchasing activity due to higher sales levels, which was partially offset by payments on outstanding payables and Translation. Total accrued expenses, including accrued income taxes, increased $36.3 to $739.0, primarily as a result of an increase in accrued income taxes and certain employee-related compensation and benefit costs, which were partially offset by the first annual installment payment of the Transition Tax as well as foreign and state withholding and income taxes paid related to foreign cash repatriated. Accrued pension and postretirement benefit obligations decreased $101.0 to $171.0, primarily due to the Company’s voluntary cash contribution of approximately $81.0 in January 2018 to fully fund the Company’s U.S. Plans. Other long-term liabilities, including deferred taxes, decreased $60.8 to $506.8, primarily as a result of a reduction in deferred foreign and state withholding and income taxes. The Company estimates that, based on current actuarial calculations and including the first quarter contribution to its U.S. Plans, cash contributions to the Plans will aggregate approximately $90.0 in 2018. The timing and amount of cash contributions in subsequent years will depend on a number of factors, including the investment performance of the Plans’ assets. In addition to cash flow from operating activities, the Company also considers Free Cash Flow, a non-GAAP financial measure defined in the “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” section below, as a key metric in measuring the Company’s ability to generate cash. The following table reconciles Free Cash Flow to its most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measure for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017. The decrease in Free Cash Flow is primarily driven by an increase in capital expenditures to support certain new customer programs, which was partially offset by an increase in operating cash flow, as described above. Net cash used in investing activities was $350.3 in the first nine months of 2018, compared to $293.0 in the first nine months of 2017. Net cash used in financing activities was $1,068.6 in the first nine months of 2018, compared to $47.7 in the first nine months of 2017. For the first nine months of 2018, cash used in financing activities was driven primarily by repurchases of the Company’s common stock of $680.2, net repayments of commercial paper and other debt of $308.8, dividend payments of $184.4, and purchases of and distributions to noncontrolling interests of $17.9, partially offset by cash proceeds from the exercise of stock options of $123.0. The Company has significant flexibility to meet its financial commitments. The Company uses debt financing to lower the overall cost of capital and increase return on stockholders’ equity. The Company’s debt financing includes the use of commercial paper programs, revolving credit facility and senior notes as part of its overall cash management strategy. The Company intends to utilize the Revolving Credit Facility for general corporate purposes. At September 30, 2018, there were no borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility. The Revolving Credit Facility requires payment of certain annual agency and commitment fees and requires that the Company satisfy certain financial covenants. At September 30, 2018, the Company was in compliance with the financial covenants under the Revolving Credit Facility. The ECP Notes may be issued in Euros, Sterling, U.S. Dollars or other currencies. Amounts available under the Commercial Paper Programs are borrowed, repaid and re-borrowed from time to time. The Company’s Board of Directors’ authorization for the ECP Notes currently limits the maximum aggregate principal amount outstanding of USCP Notes, ECP Notes, and any other commercial paper, euro-commercial paper or similar programs at any time to $2,000.0. Net proceeds of the issuances of Commercial Paper are expected to be used for general corporate purposes. The Company reviews its optimal mix of short-term and long-term debt regularly and may replace certain amounts of commercial paper, short-term debt and current maturities of long-term debt with new issuances of long-term debt in the future. Interest on each series of the Senior Notes is payable semiannually. The Company may, at its option, redeem some or all of any series of Senior Notes, subject to certain terms and conditions. In September 2017, the Company repaid all of its outstanding $375.0 1.55% Senior Notes that were due September 15, 2017. The 2.55% Senior Notes are due in January 2019 and are therefore recorded, net of the related unamortized discount and debt issuance costs, within Current portion of long-term debt in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as of September 30, 2018. The 2028 Euro Notes are unsecured and rank equally in right of payment with the Euro Issuer’s other unsecured senior indebtedness, and are guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by the Company. Interest on the 2028 Euro Notes is payable annually on October 8 of each year, commencing on October 8, 2019. The Company may, at its option, redeem some or all of the 2028 Euro Notes at any time by paying 100% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of repurchase, and if redeemed prior to July 8, 2028, a make-whole premium. The Company used a portion of the net proceeds from the 2028 Euro Notes to repay a portion of the outstanding amounts under its Commercial Paper Programs, with the remainder of the net proceeds being used for general corporate purposes. In October 2018, the Company incurred approximately $5.0 of costs related to the issuance of the 2028 Euro Notes, which are amortized to interest expense over the respective term of the debt. The Company’s Senior Notes and 2028 Euro Notes contain certain financial and non-financial covenants. Refer to Note 13 of the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information related to the Company’s debt. During the three months ended March 31, 2018, the Company repurchased 4.2 million shares of its common stock for $382.0 under the 2017 Stock Repurchase Program, bringing total repurchases under this program to approximately 12.6 million shares or $1,000.0, thus completing the 2017 Stock Repurchase Program. During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, the Company repurchased 0.4 million and 3.5 million shares of its common stock for $34.8 and $298.2, respectively, under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program. These treasury shares have been retired by the Company, accordingly common stock and retained earnings were reduced. The Company has not repurchased any additional shares of its common stock through October 24, 2018, and has remaining authorization to purchase up to approximately $1,701.8 of its common stock under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program. The price and timing of any future purchases under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program will depend on factors such as levels of cash generation from operations, the volume of stock option exercises by employees, cash requirements for acquisitions, dividends, economic and market conditions and stock price. Contingent upon declaration by the Board of Directors, the Company generally pays a quarterly dividend on shares of its Common Stock. The Company’s debt service requirements consist primarily of principal and interest on the Senior Notes and the 2028 Euro Notes, the Revolving Credit Facility and the Commercial Paper Programs. The Company may also use cash to fund all or part of the cost of acquisitions. The Company believes that its operations are currently in substantial compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations and that the costs of continuing compliance will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures may be helpful to investors in assessing the Company’s overall financial performance, trends and period-over-period comparative results, in addition to the reasons noted below. Non-GAAP financial measures related to operating income, operating margin, net income attributable to Amphenol Corporation, effective tax rate and diluted EPS exclude income and expenses that are not directly related to the Company's operating performance during the periods presented. Non-GAAP financial measures related to net sales exclude the impact related to foreign currency exchange and acquisitions. The non-GAAP financial information contained herein is included for supplemental purposes only and should not be considered in isolation, as a substitute for or superior to the related U.S. GAAP financial measures. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures are not necessarily the same or comparable to similar measures presented by other companies, as such measures may be calculated differently or may exclude different items. The non-GAAP financial measures defined below should be read in conjunction with the Company’s financial statements presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Adjusted Diluted EPS is calculated as Adjusted Net Income attributable to Amphenol Corporation, as defined below, divided by the weighted average outstanding diluted shares as reported in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income. Amphenol’s results are subject to volatility related to foreign currency translation fluctuations. Free Cash Flow is an important liquidity measure for the Company, as we believe it is useful for management and investors to assess our ability to generate cash, as well as to assess how much cash can be used to reinvest in the growth of the Company or to return to shareholders through either stock repurchases or dividends. Effective January 1, 2018, the Company’s policies related to revenue recognition have been updated in accordance with Note 3 of the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 within this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Item 3. The Company does not have any significant concentration with any one counterparty. There has been no material change in the Company’s assessment of its sensitivity to foreign currency exchange rate risk since its presentation set forth in Part II, Item 7A “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” in its 2017 Annual Report. The Company may borrow under its Revolving Credit Facility and Commercial Paper Programs. In addition, any borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility either bear interest at or trade at rates that fluctuate with a spread over LIBOR, while any borrowings under the Commercial Paper Programs are subject to floating interest rates. Therefore, when the Company borrows under these debt instruments, the Company is exposed to market risk from exposure to changes in interest rates. The Company does not expect changes in interest rates to have a material effect on income or cash flows in 2018, although there can be no assurances that interest rates will not change significantly. Item 4. These controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by the Company in reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms, and such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Based on their evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this report. Although the new revenue recognition standard did not have a material impact on the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company implemented changes to our processes related to revenue recognition and the related control activities, including the implementation of certain controls over financial reporting necessary for the required disclosures, as well as the implementation of new policies and any necessary changes to existing related policies. Refer to Notes 2 and 3 of the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion on the adoption of this new standard. Although the potential liability with respect to certain of such legal actions cannot be reasonably estimated, none of such matters is expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The Company has also received a subpoena from the Department of Defense, Office of the Inspector General, requesting documents pertaining to certain products manufactured by the Company’s Military and Aerospace Group that are purchased or used by the U.S. government. The Company is cooperating with the request. The inquiry is in the early stages and the Company is unable to estimate the timing or outcome of the matter. Item 1A. Item 2. During the three months ended September 30, 2018, the Company repurchased 0.4 million shares of its common stock for $34.8 million under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program. These treasury shares have been retired by the Company, accordingly common stock and retained earnings were reduced. The Company has not repurchased any additional shares of its common stock through October 24, 2018. The price and timing of any future purchases under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program will depend on factors such as levels of cash generation from operations, the volume of stock option exercises by employees, cash requirements for acquisitions, dividends, economic and market conditions and stock price. During the three months ended March 31, 2018, the Company repurchased 4.2 million shares of its common stock for $382.0 million under the 2017 Stock Repurchase Program, bringing total repurchases under this program to approximately 12.6 million shares or $1.0 billion, thus completing the 2017 Stock Repurchase Program. Item 4. Item 5. Item 6. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.