Risk Factors56Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds56Item 3.Defaults Upon Senior Securities56Item 4.Mine Safety Disclosures56Item 5.Other Information56Item 6.Exhibits57SIGNATURES582Table of ContentsPART I—FINANCIAL INFORMATIONItem 1. The Company's offerings range from discrete hardware and software products to integrated IT solutions such as mobility, security, data center optimization, cloud computing, virtualization and collaboration.Throughout this report, the terms the "Company" and "CDW" refer to Parent and its 100% owned subsidiaries.Parent has two 100% owned subsidiaries, CDW LLC and CDW Finance Corporation. CDW LLC is an Illinois limited liability company that, together with its 100% owned subsidiaries, holds all material assets and conducts all business activities and operations of the Company. Accordingly, certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP have been condensed or omitted pursuant to the rules and regulations of the SEC. The unaudited results of operations for such interim periods reported are not necessarily indicative of results for the full year. Prior period amounts have been adjusted accordingly.Principles of ConsolidationThe accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Parent and its 100% owned subsidiaries. All intercompany transactions and accounts are eliminated in consolidation.Use of EstimatesThe preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with GAAP requires management to make use of certain estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the Consolidated Financial Statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reported periods. The Company bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that management believes are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results could differ from those estimates.8Table of ContentsCDW CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIESNOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTSThe notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in the December 31, 2017 Consolidated Financial Statements include a discussion of the significant accounting policies and estimates used in the preparation of the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements. Except as noted above for the adoption of Topic 606, there have been no material changes to the Company's significant accounting policies and estimates during the nine months ended September 30, 2018. The Company accounts for a contract when it has approval and commitment from both parties, the rights of the parties are identified, payment terms are established, the contract has commercial substance and collectability of consideration is probable. If the terms of a transaction do not indicate the Company is acting as a principal in the transaction, then the Company is acting as an agent in the transaction and the associated revenues are recognized on a net basis. The Company recognizes revenue once control has passed to the customer. The Company’s shipping terms typically specify F.O.B. destination.The Company leverages drop-shipment arrangements with many of its vendors and suppliers to deliver products to its customers without having to physically hold the inventory at its warehouses. The Company is the principal in the transaction and recognizes revenue for drop-shipment arrangements on a gross basis. Revenue Recognition for HardwareRevenues from sales of hardware products are recognized on a gross basis as the Company is acting as a principal in these transactions, with the selling price to the customer recorded as Net sales and the acquisition cost of the product recorded as Cost of sales. The Company recognizes revenue from these transactions when control has passed to the customer, which is usually upon delivery of the product to the customer. In some instances, the customer agrees to buy the product from the Company but requests delivery at a later date, commonly known as bill-and-hold arrangements. For these transactions, the Company deems that control passes to the customer when the product is ready for delivery. The Company views products ready for delivery when the customer has a signed agreement, significant risk and rewards for the products, the ability to direct the assets, the products have been set aside specifically for the customer, cannot be redirected to another customer and for customer orders that include configuration services, when such services have been completed. The Company's vendor partners warrant most of the products the Company sells. These manufacturer warranties are assurance-type warranties and are not considered separate performance obligations. The warranties are not sold separately and only provide assurance that products will conform with the manufacturer's specifications. In some transactions, a third-party will provide the customer with an extended warranty. These extended warranties are sold separately and provide the customer with a service in addition to assurance that the product will function as expected. The Company considers these service-type warranties to be separate performance obligations from the underlying product. For service-type warranties, the Company is arranging for those services to be provided by the third-party and therefore is acting as an agent in the transaction and records revenue on a net basis at the point of sale. 9Table of ContentsCDW CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIESNOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTSRevenue Recognition for SoftwareRevenues from most software license sales are recognized as a single performance obligation on a gross basis as the Company is acting as a principal in these transactions at the point the software license is delivered to the customer. Generally, software licenses are sold with accompanying third-party delivered software assurance, which is a product that allows customers to upgrade, at no additional cost, to the latest technology if new capabilities are introduced during the period that the software assurance is in effect. The Company evaluates whether the software assurance is a separate performance obligation by assessing if the third-party delivered software assurance is critical or essential to the core functionality of the software itself. If the Company determines that the accompanying third-party delivered software assurance is critical or essential to the core functionality of the software license, the software license and the accompanying third-party delivered software assurance are recognized as a single performance obligation. The value of the product is primarily the accompanying support delivered by a third-party and therefore the Company is acting as an agent in these transactions and recognizes them on a net basis at the point the associated software license is delivered to the customer. For software licenses where the accompanying third-party delivered software assurance is not critical or essential to the core functionality, the software assurance is recognized as a separate performance obligation, with the associated revenue recognized on a net basis at the point the related software license is delivered to the customer. For additional details regarding the accounting for bundled arrangements, see "Revenue Recognition for Bundled Arrangements" below.Revenue Recognition for ServicesThe Company provides professional services, which include project managers and consultants recommending, designing and implementing IT solutions. Revenue from professional services is recognized either on a time and materials basis or recognized proportionally as costs are incurred for fixed fee project work. SaaS solutions utilize third-party partners to offer the Company's customers access to software in the cloud that enhances office productivity, provides security or assists in collaboration. IaaS solutions utilize third-party partners to enable customers to access data center functionality in a cloud-based solution, including storage, computing and networking. The Company recognizes revenue for cloud computing solutions for arrangements with one-time invoicing to the customer at the time of invoice on a net basis as the Company is acting as an agent in the transaction. For monthly subscription-based arrangements, the Company is acting as an agent in the transaction and recognizes revenue as it invoices the customer for its monthly usage on a net basis.Revenues from the sale of data center services, such as managed and remote managed services, server co-location, internet connectivity and data backup and storage provided by the Company, are recognized over the period the service is provided. Most hosting and managed service obligations are based on the quantity and pricing parameters established in the agreement. As the customer receives the benefit of the service each month, the Company recognizes the respective revenue on a gross basis as the Company is acting as a principal in the transaction. Additionally, the Company's managed services team provides project support to customers that are billed on a fixed fee basis. The Company is acting as the principal in the transaction and recognizes revenue on a gross basis based on the total number of hours incurred for the period over the total expected hours for the project. Total expected hours to complete the project is updated for each period and best represents the transfer of control of the service to the customer. For most EA transactions, the Company's obligation to the customer is that of a distributor or sales agent of the services, where all obligations for providing the services to customers are passed to the Company's vendors. The Company's performance obligations are satisfied at the time of the sale. In other EA transactions, the Company is responsible for fulfilling the promised services to the customer and providing remedy or refund for work if the customer is not satisfied with the delivered services, has inventory risk in the arrangement and has full control to set the price for the customer. This results in the Company acting as a principal in the agreement. With most EAs, the Company's vendors will transfer the license and invoice the customer 10Table of ContentsCDW CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIESNOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTSdirectly, paying resellers an agency fee or commission on these sales. The Company records these fees as a component of Net sales as earned and there is no corresponding Cost of sales amount. Revenue Recognition for Bundled ArrangementsThe Company also sells some of its products and services as part of bundled contract arrangements containing multiple deliverables, which may include a combination of products and services. For each deliverable that represents a distinct performance obligation, total arrangement consideration is allocated based upon the standalone selling prices of each performance obligation. The Company excludes amounts collected on behalf of third-parties, such as sales taxes, when determining the transaction price. For certain performance obligations, the Company will use a combination of methods to estimate the standalone selling price. When evidence from recent transactions is not available to confirm that the prices are representative of the standalone selling price, an expected cost plus a margin approach is used. Sales In-TransitThe Company performs an analysis of the estimated number of days of sales in-transit to customers at the end of each reporting period based on a weighted-average analysis of commercial delivery terms that include drop-shipment arrangements. This analysis is the basis upon which the Company estimates the amount of Net sales in-transit at the end of the period and adjusts revenue and the related costs to reflect only what has been delivered to the customer. Changes in delivery patterns may result in a different number of business days estimated to make this adjustment.Freight CostsThe Company records freight billed to its customers as Net sales and the related freight costs as a Cost of sales when the underlying product revenue is recognized. For freight not billed to its customers, the Company records the freight costs as a Cost of sales. The Company's typical shipping terms are F.O.B. destination, which results in shipping being performed before the customer obtains control of the product. The Company considers shipping to be a fulfillment activity and not a separate performance obligation.OtherThe nature of the Company's contracts give rise to variable consideration in the form of sales returns and allowances. The Company estimates variable consideration at the most likely amount to which it is expected to be entitled. This estimated amount is included in the transaction price to the extent it is probable that a significant reversal of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is resolved. The estimates of variable consideration and determination of whether to include estimated amounts in the transaction price are based on an assessment of the Company's anticipated performance and all information that is reasonably available. At the time of sale, the Company records an estimate for sales returns and allowances and an associated right of return asset based on historical experience. When a contract results in revenue being recognized in excess of the amount the Company has the right to invoice to the customer, a contract asset is recorded on the balance sheet. Contract assets are comprised primarily of professional services with fixed fee arrangements.Contract liabilities consist of payments received from customers, or such consideration that is contractually due, in advance of providing the product or performing services. Taxes to be collected from the customer as part of the sale are included in Accounts receivable.Any incremental direct costs of obtaining a contract, primarily sales commissions, are deferred on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and amortized over the period of contract performance. 11Table of ContentsCDW CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIESNOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTSThe Company typically does not enter into long-term contracts. The Company has elected to use the practical expedient for its performance obligations table to show only those contracts that are longer than 12 months at the time of contract inception and those contracts that are non-cancelable. Additionally, for certain governmental contracts where there are annual renewals, the Company has excluded these contracts since there is only a one-year legal obligation. Typically, the only contracts that are longer than 12 months in duration are related to the Company's professional and managed services business. The Company requests payments for its products and services at the point of sale. The Company generally does not enter into any long-term financing arrangements or payment plans with customers or contracts with customers that have non-cash consideration.2. The ASU eliminates the requirement to separately measure and report hedge ineffectiveness for cash flow hedges and net investment hedges, and generally requires the entire change in the fair value of a hedging instrument to be presented in the same income statement line as the hedged item. The ASU also simplifies certain documentation and assessment requirements and will incorporate new disclosure requirements and amendments to existing disclosures. This ASU is effective for the Company beginning the first quarter of 2019 and allows for early adoption. This ASU introduces a new forward-looking approach, based on expected losses, to estimate credit losses on certain types of financial instruments, including trade receivables. The estimate of expected credit losses will require considerations of historical information, current information and reasonable and supportable forecasts. This ASU also expands the disclosure requirements to enable users of financial statements to understand the assumptions, models and methods for estimating expected credit losses. This ASU is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of 2020 and allows for early adoption beginning in the first quarter of 2019. This ASU is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of 2019 and allows for early adoption. The Company plans to adopt the standard on January 1, 2019, and will apply it at the beginning of the period of adoption. Therefore, upon adoption, financial information and disclosures will not be updated for comparative reporting periods under the new standard. Additionally, the Company intends to elect the transition package of practical expedients upon adoption which, among other things, allows an entity to not reassess the historical lease classification. The Company has established a cross-functional implementation team to analyze the effect of the ASU. The Company utilized a combination of a bottom-up and top-down approach to identify and analyze its lease portfolio. The analysis included reviewing all forms of leases, performing a completeness assessment over the lease population, assessing the policy elections offered by the standard and evaluating its business processes and internal controls to meet the ASU's accounting, reporting and disclosure requirements. The Company expects adoption of the standard will have an impact on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. The Company does not expect the adoption of the standard to impact the Consolidated Statements of Operations or the Consolidated 12Table of ContentsCDW CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIESNOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTSStatements of Cash Flows. The most significant effect of the new standard on the Consolidated Balance Sheet relates to the recognition of right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for the Company’s real estate portfolio. The Company will also be providing new disclosures for its leasing activities.Revenue RecognitionOn January 1, 2018, the Company adopted Topic 606 and utilized the full retrospective method. Inventory Financing AgreementsThe Company has entered into agreements with certain financial intermediaries to facilitate the purchase of inventory from various suppliers under certain terms and conditions, as described below. These amounts are classified separately as Accounts payable-inventory financing on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The Company does not incur any interest expense associated with these agreements as balances are paid when they are due. Contract Liabilities and Remaining Performance ObligationsThe Company's contract liabilities consist of payments received from customers, or such consideration that is contractually due, in advance of providing the product or performing services. The Company's contract liabilities are reported in a net position on a contract-by-contract basis at the end of each reporting period. As of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the contract liability balance was $188 million and $159 million, respectively. During the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, the Company recognized revenue of $153 million and $126 million, respectively, related to its contract liabilities.A contract's transaction price is allocated to each distinct performance obligation and recognized as revenue when, or as, the performance obligation is satisfied. The following table represents the total transaction price for the remaining performance obligations as of September 30, 2018 related to non-cancelable contracts longer than 12 months in duration that is expected to be recognized over future periods. The Company uses derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to interest rate risk. The Company does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.The Company has interest rate cap agreements that entitle it to payments from the counterparty of the amount, if any, by which three-month LIBOR exceeds the strike rates of the caps during the agreement period in exchange for an upfront premium. During the first quarter of 2018, the Company entered into interest rate cap agreements with a combined notional value of $1.4 billion resulting in premiums paid to the counterparties of $13 million. The valuation of the interest rate cap agreements is derived by using a discounted cash flow analysis on the expected cash receipts that would occur if variable interest rates rise above the strike rates of the caps. This analysis reflects the contractual terms of the interest rate cap agreements, including the period to maturity, and uses observable market-based inputs, including LIBOR curves and implied volatilities. The Company also incorporates insignificant credit valuation adjustments to appropriately reflect the respective counterparty's nonperformance risk in the fair value measurements. The counterparty credit spreads are based on publicly available credit information obtained from a third-party credit data provider. The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that qualify as cash flow hedges is recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive loss and is subsequently reclassified into Interest expense in the period when the hedged forecasted transaction affects earnings. If a derivative is deemed to be ineffective, the ineffective portion of the change in fair value of the derivative is recognized directly into earnings. The Company's interest rate cap agreements were deemed effective during both the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, and the Company expects the derivatives will continue to be effective for the next twelve months. During the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, the Company recorded an insignificant gain for the effective portion of the interest rate cap agreements into Accumulated other comprehensive loss. During the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, the Company recorded a $6 million gain and a $1 million loss, respectively, net of tax, for the effective portion of the interest rate cap agreements into Accumulated other comprehensive loss. During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, the Company reclassified $1 million and $3 million, respectively, from Accumulated other comprehensive loss to earnings within Interest expense, net on the Consolidated Statement of Operations. The Company expects to reclassify $5 million from Accumulated other comprehensive loss into Interest expense, net during the next twelve months. The interest rate disclosed represents the variable interest rate in effect as of September 30, 2018. The interest rate disclosed represents the variable interest rate in effect as of December 31, 2017. Borrowings under the Revolving Loan are limited by the borrowing base. As of September 30, 2018, the Company could have borrowed up to an additional $1.1 billion under the Revolving Loan. Fees of $4 million related to the Prior Revolving Loan were capitalized as deferred financing fees and are being amortized over the five-year term of the facility on a straight-line basis. The amended margin is 1.75% for LIBOR borrowings and 0.75% for ABR borrowings effective April 3, 2018. Borrowings under the Term Loan are payable quarterly on the last day of each March, June, September and December. This loss represented the write-off of a portion of the unamortized deferred financing fees of $5 million and unamortized discount related to the Prior Term Loan Facility of $9 million. In connection with the issuance of the Term Loan, the Company incurred and recorded $2 million in deferred financing fees. Borrowings under the CDW UK Term Loan bear interest at LIBOR plus a margin, payable quarterly on the last day of each March, June, September and December. The 2025 Senior Notes will mature on September 1, 2025 and bear interest at a rate of 5.0% per annum, payable semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 of each year.During the nine months ended September 30, 2017, the Company completed the issuance of the 2025 Senior Notes at par. In connection with this redemption, the Company recorded a loss on extinguishment of long-term debt of $43 million in the Consolidated Statement of Operations for the nine months ended September 30, 2017. This loss represents $37 million in redemption premium and $6 million for the write-off of the remaining deferred financing fees related to the 2022 Senior Notes.Debt Guarantors, Covenants and RestrictionsCDW LLC is the borrower under the Term Loan and Revolving Loan. The Term Loan contains negative covenants that, among other things, place restrictions and limitations on the ability of the Guarantors to dispose of assets, incur additional indebtedness, incur guarantee obligations, prepay other indebtedness, make distributions or other restricted payments, create liens, make equity or debt investments, make acquisitions, engage in mergers or consolidations or engage in certain transactions with affiliates. As of September 30, 2018, the amount of CDW's restricted payment capacity under the Term Loan was $1.4 billion. The indenture governing each of the Senior Notes do not contain any financial covenants.The CDW UK Term Loan imposes restrictions on CDW UK's ability to transfer funds to the Company through the payment of dividends, repayment of intercompany loans, advances or subordinated debt that require, among other things, the maintenance of a minimum net leverage ratio. The fair value of the Term Loan was estimated using dealer quotes for identical liabilities in markets that are not considered active. The Senior Notes, Term Loan and the CDW UK Term Loan are classified as Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy. The carrying value of the Revolving Loan and the CDW UK Revolving Credit Facility approximate fair value if there are outstanding borrowings. As of September 30, 2018, the carrying value of the CDW UK Term Loan approximated fair value. Income TaxesOn December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was enacted into law. The SEC issued Staff Accounting Bulletin 118 allowing for provisional amounts to be recorded during a measurement period not to exceed one year. The Company recorded during the year ended December 31, 2017 provisional amounts for the impact of revaluing deferred tax assets and liabilities, the deemed mandatory repatriation tax on the Company's unremitted foreign earnings and the state income tax effects from the changes in federal tax law during the year ended December 31, 2017. The Company adjusted the US federal provisional amounts during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, recording a net tax benefit of $2 million. The adjustment was driven by the rate differential on adjustments to temporary book-tax differences made in finalizing the 2017 federal income tax return and finalizing the deemed mandatory repatriation tax on the Company’s unremitted foreign earnings. The Company continues to analyze 18Table of ContentsCDW CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIESNOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTSthe state income tax effects of the changes in federal tax law and will adjust the related provisional amounts within the one-year measurement period. Income tax expense was $55 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018, compared to $78 million for the same period of the prior year. The effective income tax rate, expressed by calculating the income tax expense as a percentage of Income before income taxes, was 22.9% for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and differed from the US federal statutory rate of 21.0% primarily due to state income taxes partially offset by excess tax benefits on equity-based compensation. The effective tax rate for the same period of the prior year was 37.5% and differed from the US federal statutory rate of 35.0% primarily due to state income taxes and additional expense as a result of a change in state tax rates enacted during the quarter, partially offset by excess tax benefits on equity-based compensation and a state tax refund.Income tax expense was $150 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to $148 million for the same period of the prior year. The effective income tax rate, expressed by calculating the income tax expense as a percentage of Income before income taxes, was 23.7% for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and differed from the US federal statutory rate of 21.0% primarily due to state income taxes partially offset by excess tax benefits on equity-based compensation. The effective tax rate for the same period of the prior year was 31.1% and differed from the US federal statutory rate of 35.0% primarily due to excess tax benefits on equity-based compensation, partially offset by state taxes. 8.Stockholders' EquityOn February 14, 2018, the Company retired 109,207 shares of its treasury stock. On December 31, 2017 the shares were acquired in satisfaction of withholding taxes which were paid by the Company on behalf of coworkers under the Performance Share Awards program. 9.Equity-Based CompensationOn August 1, 2018, 456,613 stock options granted by one of the sellers of CDW UK to certain CDW UK coworkers as part of the Company's acquisition of CDW UK vested. These equity awards had a weighted-average grant-date fair value of $35.93 per option. In connection with the exercise of such options, the seller of CDW UK distributed shares of common stock to each participant and withheld the number of shares of common stock equal to the respective tax withholding for each participant. The seller of CDW UK then transferred such withheld shares to the Company to satisfy the tax withholding for participants. The Company was required to pay withholding taxes of $19 million to Her Majesty’s Revenue and Customs taxing authority related to the exercise of these options. The PSUs had a weighted-average grant-date fair value of $37.84 per unit. In connection with the PSUs that vested, the Company distributed shares of common stock to each participant during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and withheld the number of shares of common stock equal to the respective tax withholding for each participant. The Company was required to pay withholding taxes of $9 million to federal, state and foreign taxing authorities for the vesting of these PSUs. This amount is reported as a financing activity in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows and as an increase to Accumulated Deficit in the Consolidated Statement of Shareholders' Equity for the nine months ended September 30, 2018.On December 31, 2016, 748,855 PSUs under the 2013 Long-Term Incentive Plan vested, representing a vesting rate for the 2014-2016 performance period of 193.5% of target. The PSUs had a weighted-average grant-date fair value of $24.40 per unit. In connection with the PSUs that vested, the Company distributed shares of common stock to each participant during the nine months ended September 30, 2017 and withheld the number of shares of common stock equal to the respective tax withholding for each participant. The Company was required to pay withholding taxes of $18 million to federal, state and foreign taxing authorities for the vesting of these PSUs. The RSUs had a weighted-average grant-date fair value of $17.04 per unit. In connection with the RSUs that vested, the Company distributed shares of common stock to each participant during the nine months ended September 30, 2017 and withheld the number of shares of common stock equal to the respective tax withholding for each participant. 19Table of ContentsCDW CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIESNOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTSThe Company was required to pay withholding taxes of $24 million to federal, state and foreign taxing authorities for the vesting of these RSUs. This amount is reported as a financing activity in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows and as an increase to Accumulated Deficit in the Consolidated Statement of Stockholders' Equity for the nine months ended September 30, 2017.10.Earnings per ShareThe numerator for both basic and diluted earnings per share is Net income. The denominator for basic earnings per share is the weighted-average shares outstanding during the period. 11. Commitments and ContingenciesThe Company is party to various legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of its business, which include commercial, intellectual property, employment, tort and other litigation matters. The Company is also subject to audit by federal, state, international, national, provincial and local authorities, and by various partners, group purchasing organizations and customers, including government agencies, relating to purchases and sales under various contracts. In addition, the Company is subject to indemnification claims under various contracts. From time to time, certain customers of the Company file voluntary petitions for reorganization or liquidation under the US bankruptcy laws or similar laws of the jurisdictions for the Company's business activities outside of the US. In such cases, certain pre-petition payments received by the Company could be considered preference items and subject to return to the bankruptcy administrator.As of September 30, 2018, the Company does not believe that there is a reasonable possibility that any material loss exceeding the amounts already recognized for these proceedings and matters, if any, has been incurred. However, the ultimate resolutions of these proceedings and matters are inherently unpredictable. Such service arrangements are categorized based on the bill-to address. Such service arrangements are categorized based on the bill-to address. Such service arrangements are categorized based on the bill-to address. Such service arrangements are categorized based on the bill-to address. Categories are based upon internal classifications. As a result, the category percentage of net revenues is not representative of the category percentage of gross profits. All guarantees by the Parent and the Guarantor Subsidiaries are and were joint and several, and full and unconditional; provided that guarantees by the Guarantor Subsidiaries are subject to certain customary release provisions contained in the indentures governing the 2023 Senior Notes, the 2024 Senior Notes and the 2025 Senior Notes. CDW LLC and CDW Finance Corporation, as co-issuers, are 100% owned by Parent and each of the Guarantor Subsidiaries and the Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries are, directly or indirectly, 100% owned by CDW LLC.The following tables set forth Condensed Consolidating Balance Sheets as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, Consolidating Statements of Operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, Condensed Consolidating Statements of Comprehensive Income for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 and Condensed Consolidating Statements of Cash Flows for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, in accordance with Rule 3-10 of Regulation S-X. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsUnless otherwise indicated or the context otherwise requires, as used in this "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," the terms "we," "us," "the Company," "our," "CDW" and similar terms refer to CDW Corporation and its subsidiaries. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" should be read in conjunction with the unaudited interim Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this report and with the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Our broad array of offerings ranges from discrete hardware and software products to integrated IT solutions such as mobility, security, data center optimization, cloud computing, virtualization and collaboration.We are technology "agnostic," with a portfolio including more than 100,000 products and services from more than 1,000 leading and emerging brands. Our solutions are delivered in physical, virtual and cloud-based environments through over 6,000 customer-facing coworkers, including sellers, highly-skilled technology specialists and advanced service delivery engineers. We provide our vendor partners with a cost-effective way to reach customers and deliver a consistent brand experience through our established end-market coverage, technical expertise and extensive customer access.We have three reportable segments, Corporate, Small Business and Public. Our Corporate segment primarily serves US private sector business customers with more than 250 employees. Our Small Business segment primarily serves US private sector business customers with up to 250 employees. Our Public segment is comprised of government agencies and education and healthcare institutions in the US. We may sell all or only select products that our vendor partners offer. We also resell software for major software publishers. Our agreements with software publishers allow the end-user customer to acquire software or licensed products and services. In addition to helping our customers determine the best software solutions for their needs, we help them manage their software agreements, including warranties and renewals. A significant portion of our advertising and marketing expenses are reimbursed through cooperative advertising programs with our vendor partners. This is particularly the case for business customers, as their purchases tend to reflect confidence in their business prospects, which are driven by their perceptions of business conditions. Purchasing behavior may be different between our Corporate customers and Small Business customers due to their perception of business conditions. Additionally, changes in trade policy and product constraints from suppliers could have an adverse impact on our business.•Changes in spending policies, budget priorities and funding levels are a key factor influencing the purchasing levels of government, healthcare and education customers. 37Table of Contents•Technology trends drive customer purchasing behaviors in the market. Current technology trends are focused on delivering greater flexibility and efficiency, as well as designing IT securely. These trends are driving customer adoption of solutions such as those delivered via cloud, software defined architectures and hybrid on-premise and off-premise combinations.Key business metricsWe monitor a number of financial and non-financial measures and ratios on a regular basis in order to track the progress of our business and make adjustments as necessary. These measures and ratios are compared to standards or objectives set by management, so that actions can be taken, as necessary, in order to achieve the standards and objectives.In this Form 10-Q, we discuss Non-GAAP income before income taxes, Non-GAAP net income, Non-GAAP net income per diluted share, EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin, which are non-GAAP financial measures.We believe these measures provide analysts, investors and management with helpful information regarding the underlying operating performance of our business, as they remove the impact of items that management believes are not reflective of underlying operating performance. Management uses these measures to evaluate period-over-period performance as management believes they provide a more comparable measure of the underlying business. For the definitions of Non-GAAP income before income taxes, Non-GAAP net income and Adjusted EBITDA and reconciliations to Net income, see "Results of Operations. Total Net sales for the three months ended September 30, 2018 increased $440 million, or 11.2%, to $4,373 million, compared to $3,933 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017. Excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, constant currency Net sales growth was 11.4%. See "Non-GAAP Financial Measure Reconciliations" below for additional information regarding constant currency Net sales growth.For the three months ended September 30, 2018, Net sales growth reflected balanced growth across transactions and solutions. Transactional growth was primarily driven by client devices. Solutions growth was driven primarily by software, servers, networking and enterprise storage. Additionally, strong results from our international operations contributed to our Net sales growth. Corporate segment Net sales for the three months ended September 30, 2018 increased $154 million, or 9.9%, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2017. Growth was primarily driven by client device refresh.Small Business segment Net sales for the three months ended September 30, 2018 increased by $35 million, or 11.3%, between periods. Sales growth was primarily driven by solutions growth, including software.Public segment Net sales for the three months ended September 30, 2018 increased $181 million, or 10.7%, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2017. The increase was primarily driven by double digit growth in Education, as well as Government and Healthcare both contributing high single-digit growth to the overall performance for the period. Net sales in Education increased 14.7%, primarily driven by notebook and netcomm performance within K-12 as customers addressed their client device and networking needs. Healthcare Net sales increased as customers moved forward with network refresh and data center projects. Net sales in Other, which is comprised of results from our UK and Canadian operations, for the three months ended September 30, 2018 increased $71 million, or 18.5%, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2017. Both operations grew in local currency and continued to take share in their respective local markets. In addition, UK growth was driven in part by referral business for US-based customers. The impact of foreign currency exchange decreased Other sales growth by approximately 200 basis points, due primarily to the unfavorable impact resulting from the Canadian dollar to US dollar translation.40Table of ContentsGross profitGross profit increased $72 million, or 11.1%, to $714 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018, compared to $642 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017. As a percentage of Net sales, Gross profit margin remained flat versus prior year at 16.3% for the three months ended September 30, 2018. Gross profit margin was positively impacted by product margin improvement. This was offset by year-over-year Net sales growth out-pacing the year-over-year growth rate in partner funding.Selling and administrative expensesSelling and administrative expenses increased $39 million, or 11.0%, to $391 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018, compared to $352 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017. The increase was driven by higher sales payroll costs, including sales commissions consistent with higher Gross profit dollars, higher coworker costs driven by attainment for performance-based compensation and strategic investments funded by tax reform. Total coworker count was 8,937, up 215 from 8,722 at September 30, 2017. Income from operations was $275 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018, an increase of $31 million, or 12.6%, compared to $244 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017. Income from operations increased primarily due to higher gross profit dollars, partially offset by higher sales payroll expenses and higher coworker costs due to higher attainment for performance-based compensation. Total operating margin percentage increased 10 basis points to 6.3% for the three months ended September 30, 2018, from 6.2% for the three months ended September 30, 2017. Corporate segment income from operations was $127 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018, an increase of $5 million, or 4.1%, compared to $122 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017. Corporate segment income from operations increased primarily due to higher gross profit dollars, partially offset by higher sales payroll expenses and coworker costs due to higher attainment for performance-based compensation. Corporate segment operating margin percentage decreased 30 basis points to 7.5% for the three months ended September 30, 2018, from 7.8% for the three months ended September 30, 41Table of Contents2017. This decrease in operating margin percentage was primarily driven by product margin compression due to increased hardware sales and higher coworker costs due to higher attainment for performance-based compensation as a percentage of Net sales.Small Business segment income from operations was $24 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018, an increase of $6 million, or 36.1%, compared to $18 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017. Small business segment income from operations increased primarily due to higher gross profit dollars. Small Business segment operating margin percentage increased 130 basis points to 7.1% for the three months ended September 30, 2018, from 5.8% for the three months ended September 30, 2017. This increase in operating margin percentage was primarily driven by higher product margin, partially offset by higher sales payroll expenses and coworker costs due to higher attainment for performance-based compensation as a percentage of Net sales.Public segment income from operations was $138 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018, an increase of $16 million, or 12.9%, compared to $122 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017. Public segment income from operations increased primarily due to higher gross profit dollars. Public segment operating margin percentage increased 20 basis points to 7.4% for the three months ended September 30, 2018, from 7.2% for the three months ended September 30, 2017. This increase in operating margin percentage was primarily driven by higher product margin, partially offset by higher coworker costs due to higher attainment for performance-based compensation as a percentage of Net sales.Other income from operations was $19 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018, an increase of $5 million, or 34.5%, compared to $14 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017. Other income from operations increased primarily due to higher gross profit dollars, partially offset by higher payroll expenses. Other operating margin percentage increased 50 basis points to 4.2% for the three months ended September 30, 2018, from 3.7% for the three months ended September 30, 2017. This increase was primarily driven by the mix of Net sales and lower intangible asset amortization as a percentage of Net sales, partially offset by higher equity-based compensation expense as a percentage of Net sales. Income tax expenseIncome tax expense was $55 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018, compared to $78 million for the same period of the prior year. The effective income tax rate, expressed by calculating the income tax expense as a percentage of Income before income taxes, was 22.9% for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and differed from the US federal statutory rate of 21.0% primarily due to state income taxes partially offset by excess tax benefits on equity-based compensation. The effective tax rate for the same period of the prior year was 37.5% and differed from the US federal statutory rate of 35.0% primarily due to state income taxes and additional expense as a result of a change in state tax rates enacted during the quarter, partially offset by excess tax benefits on equity-based compensation and a state tax refund.The lower effective tax rate for the three months ended September 30, 2018 as compared to the same period of the prior year was primarily attributable to the reduction in the US federal statutory rate and higher excess tax benefits on equity-based compensation, partially offset by higher effective net state income tax rates primarily due to the reduced US federal benefit.Non-GAAP Financial Measure ReconciliationsWe have included reconciliations of Non-GAAP income before income taxes, Non-GAAP net income, EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA margin and consolidated Net sales growth on a constant currency basis for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 below. Non-GAAP income before income taxes and Non-GAAP net income exclude, among other things, charges related to the amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, equity-based compensation and associated taxes, gains and losses from the extinguishment of debt and integration expenses. EBITDA is defined as consolidated net income before interest expense, net, income tax expense, depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA, which is a measure defined in our credit agreements, means EBITDA adjusted for certain items, which are described in the tables below. Adjusted EBITDA margin is defined as Adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of Net sales. Consolidated Net sales growth on a constant currency basis is defined as consolidated Net sales growth excluding the impact of foreign currency translation on net sales compared to the prior period.Non-GAAP income before income taxes, Non-GAAP net income, EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA margin and consolidated Net sales growth on a constant currency basis are considered non-GAAP financial measures. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance or financial position that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally included or excluded in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. Non-GAAP measures used by management may differ from similar measures used by other companies, even when similar terms are used to identify such measures.42Table of ContentsWe believe these measures provide analysts, investors and management with helpful information regarding the underlying operating performance of our business, as they remove the impact of items that management believes are not reflective of underlying operating performance. Management uses these measures to evaluate period-over-period performance as management believes they provide a more comparable measure of the underlying business. Additionally, Adjusted EBITDA is a measure in the credit agreement governing our Term Loan used to evaluate our ability to make certain investments, incur additional debt, and make restricted payments, such as dividends and share repurchases, as well as whether we are required to make additional principal prepayments on the Term Loan beyond the quarterly amortization payments. Non-GAAP net incomeNon-GAAP net income was $218 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018, an increase of $50 million, or 29.3%, compared to $168 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017. As a percentage of Net sales, Adjusted EBITDA was 8.1% for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 8.3% for the three months ended September 30, 2017. Also includes historical retention costs during the three months ended September 30, 2017. Consolidated net sales growth on constant currency basisConsolidated Net sales increased $440 million, or 11.2%, to $4,373 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018, compared to $3,933 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017. Consolidated Net sales on a constant currency basis, which excludes the impact of foreign currency translation, increased $447 million, or 11.4%. Excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, constant currency Net sales growth was 9.3%. See "Non-GAAP Financial Measure Reconciliations" below for additional information regarding constant currency Net sales growth.For the nine months ended September 30, 2018, growth was driven by ongoing focus on client device refresh within hardware and strong growth from our international operations. In addition, sales growth reflected both underlying demand for solutions, as well as the impact of the reversal associated with supply chain issues experienced at the end of 2017.Corporate segment Net sales for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 increased $433 million, or 9.5% compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2017. Growth was primarily driven by client device refresh, as well as continued success helping customers with solutions, including data center and software.Small Business segment Net sales for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 increased by $85 million, or 9.3%, between periods. Sales growth was primarily driven by client device refresh.Public segment Net sales for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 increased $260 million, or 5.8%, compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2017. Net sales in Healthcare increased 7.1%, primarily driven by performance in client devices and video as customers moved forward on refresh projects. Education Net sales increased 6.3% primarily driven by continued success addressing client device and networking needs for both K-12 and Higher Education customers. Both operations had strong growth in local currency as we continued to take share in the local markets. In addition, UK growth was driven in part by increased sales from referrals for US-based customers. The impact of foreign currency exchange increased Other sales growth by approximately 500 basis points, due to the favorable impact resulting from the British pound and Canadian dollar to US dollar translations.46Table of ContentsGross profitGross profit increased $176 million, or 9.6%, to $2,013 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to $1,837 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017. As a percentage of Net sales, Gross profit margin decreased 10 basis points to 16.5% for the nine months ended September 30, 2018. Gross profit margin was impacted by improved product margin, this was offset by year-over-year Net sales growth out-pacing the year-over-year growth rate in partner funding.Selling and administrative expensesSelling and administrative expenses increased $72 million, or 6.8%, to $1,135 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to $1,063 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017. The increase was driven by higher sales payroll costs, including sales commissions primarily due to higher Gross profit dollars, higher coworker costs due to higher attainment of performance-based compensation and strategic investments funded by tax reform. This was partially offset by lower equity-based compensation expense and the associated payroll taxes due to the prior year vesting of an equity grant made at the time of our initial public offering. Income from operations was $744 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, an increase of $98 million, or 15.2%, compared to $646 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017. Income from operations increased primarily due to higher gross profit dollars, partially offset by higher sales payroll expenses and higher coworker costs due to higher attainment on performance-based compensation. Total operating margin percentage increased 30 basis points to 6.1% for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, from 5.8% for the nine months ended September 30, 2017. The increase was primarily due to lower equity-based compensation expense and the associated payroll taxes and intangible asset amortization as a percentage of Net sales, which do not trend in line with sales movement. Corporate segment income from operations was $393 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, an increase of $32 million, or 8.9%, compared to $361 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017. Corporate segment income from operations increased primarily due to higher gross profit dollars driven by higher sales. Corporate segment operating margin 47Table of Contentspercentage remained flat to prior year at 7.9% for the nine months ended September 30, 2018. The benefit from lower Selling and administrative expenses as a percentage of Net sales was offset by product margin compression due to increased hardware sales.Small Business segment income from operations was $71 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, an increase of $17 million, or 32.1%, compared to $54 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017. Small business segment income from operations increased primarily due to higher gross profit dollars. Small Business segment operating margin percentage increased 120 basis points to 7.1% for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, from 5.9% for the nine months ended September 30, 2017. This increase in operating margin percentage was primarily driven by higher product margin and the benefit of lower sales payroll expenses and intangible asset amortization expenses as a percentage of Net sales.Public segment income from operations was $323 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, an increase of $35 million, or 12.2%, compared to $288 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017. Public segment income from operations increased primarily due to higher gross profit dollars. Public segment operating margin percentage increased 40 basis points to 6.8% for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, from 6.4% for the nine months ended September 30, 2017. This increase in operating margin percentage was primarily driven by a higher product margin.Other income from operations was $61 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, an increase of $21 million, or 53.7%, compared to $40 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017. Other income from operations increased primarily due to higher gross profit dollars, partially offset by higher sales payroll expenses. Foreign exchange translation also had a favorable impact on income from operations. Other operating margin percentage increased 80 basis points to 4.3% for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, from 3.5% for the nine months ended September 30, 2017. This increase was primarily due to lower sales payroll expenses and lower intangible asset amortization as a percentage of Net sales. Net loss on extinguishments of long-term debt During the nine months ended September 30, 2017, we incurred a net loss on extinguishment of long-term debt of $57 million. The loss recognized represents the difference between the aggregate principal amount and the net carrying amount of the purchased debt, adjusted for the remaining unamortized deferred financing fees and premium.Income tax expenseIncome tax expense was $150 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to $148 million for the same period of the prior year. The effective income tax rate, expressed by calculating the income tax expense as a percentage of Income before income taxes, was 23.7% for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and differed from the US federal statutory rate of 21.0% primarily due to state income taxes, partially offset by excess tax benefits on equity-based compensation. The effective tax rate for the same period of the prior year was 31.1% and differed from the US federal statutory rate of 35.0% primarily due to excess tax benefits on equity-based compensation, partially offset by state taxes. The lower effective tax rate for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 as compared to the same period of the prior year was primarily attributable to the reduction in the US federal statutory rate, partially offset by lower excess tax benefits on equity-based compensation and a higher effective net state income tax rate primarily due to the reduced US federal benefit.Non-GAAP Financial Measure ReconciliationsWe have included reconciliations of Non-GAAP income before income taxes, Non-GAAP net income, EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA margin and consolidated Net sales growth on a constant currency basis for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 below. See the "Non-GAAP Financial Measure Reconciliations" section included above for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 for all Non-GAAP measure definitions.48Table of ContentsNon-GAAP net incomeNon-GAAP net income was $594 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, an increase of $141 million or 31.0% compared to $453 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017. Additionally, 2018 includes the impact of GILTI on equity-based compensation and amortization of intangibles. As a percentage of Net sales, Adjusted EBITDA was 8.0% for both the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017. Also includes historical retention costs during the nine months ended September 30, 2017.Consolidated net sales growth on constant currency basisConsolidated Net sales increased $1,085 million, or 9.8%, to $12,166 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to $11,081 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017. Consolidated Net sales on a constant currency basis, which excludes the impact of foreign currency translation, increased $1,038 million, or 9.3%. Additionally, sales in our Public segment have historically been higher in the third quarter than in other quarters primarily due to the buying patterns of the federal government and education customers.Liquidity and Capital ResourcesOverviewWe finance our operations and capital expenditures with internally generated cash from operations. Our liquidity and borrowing plans are established to align with our financial and strategic planning processes and ensure we have the necessary funding to meet our operating commitments, which primarily include the purchase of inventory, payroll and general expenses. We also take into consideration our overall capital allocation strategy, which includes investment for future growth, dividend payments, acquisitions and share repurchases. We believe we have adequate sources of liquidity and funding available for at least the next year; however, there are a number of factors that may negatively impact our available sources of funds. The amount of cash generated from operations will be dependent upon factors such as the successful execution of our business plan and general economic conditions.Share Repurchase ProgramDuring the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we repurchased 3.0 million shares of our common stock for $233 million under the previously announced share repurchase program. The dividend will be paid on December 10, 2018 to all stockholders of record as of the close of business on November 26, 2018. The payment of any future dividends will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon our results of operations, financial condition, business prospects, capital requirements, contractual restrictions, any potential indebtedness we may incur, restrictions imposed by applicable law, tax considerations and other factors that our Board of Directors deems relevant. In order to manage our working capital and operating cash needs, we monitor our cash conversion cycle, defined as days of sales outstanding in accounts receivable plus days of supply in inventory minus days of purchases outstanding in accounts payable, based on a rolling three-month average. Also incorporates components of other miscellaneous receivables. The cash conversion cycle decreased to 18 days at September 30, 2018 compared to 19 days at September 30, 2017 as DSO and DPO each increased 1 day and DIO decreased 1 day compared to September 30, 2017. Both DSO and DPO are impacted by third party services such as software as a service and warranties. These sales have an unfavorable impact on DSO as the receivable is recognized on the Consolidated Balance Sheet on a gross basis while the corresponding sales amount in the Consolidated Statement of Operations is recorded on a net basis. This also results in a favorable impact on DPO as the payable is recognized on the Consolidated Balance Sheet without a corresponding Cost of sales in the Statement of Operations because the cost paid to the vendor or third-party service provider is recorded as a reduction to Net sales. Additionally, average inventory balances remained at the same levels as 2017 which, coupled with higher Cost of sales, led to a favorable impact on DIO. Investing ActivitiesNet cash used in investing activities decreased by $6 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2018 compared to the same period of the prior year. Capital expenditures were $53 million and $59 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The decrease in capital expenditures is primarily due to the timing of investments for improvements to our information technology systems. Financing ActivitiesNet cash used in financing activities decreased by $112 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2018 compared to the same period of the prior year. The decrease was primarily driven by fewer share repurchases during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, which resulted in a $301 million decrease in cash used in financing activities. The decrease in cash used in financing activities was partially offset by reduced borrowings under our revolving credit facilities, which resulted in net cash outflows of $185 million. At September 30, 2018, we were in compliance with the covenants under our various credit agreements and indentures. The amount of CDW’s restricted payment capacity under the Senior Secured Term Loan Facility was $1.4 billion at September 30, 2018. The amount of restricted payment capacity for the CDW UK Term Loan was $152 million at September 30, 2018. These amounts are classified separately as Accounts payable-inventory financing on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. We do not incur any interest expense associated with these agreements as balances are paid when they are due. All statements other than statements of historical fact included in this report are forward-looking statements. These statements relate to analysis and other information, which are based on forecasts of future results and estimates of amounts not yet determinable. These statements also relate to our future prospects, developments and business strategies. We claim the protection of The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 for all forward-looking statements in this report.These forward-looking statements are identified by the use of terms and phrases such as "anticipate," "believe," "could," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "plan," "predict," "project," "should," "will" and similar terms and phrases, including references to assumptions. However, these words are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. Although we believe that our plans, intentions and expectations reflected in or suggested by such forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot assure you that we will achieve those plans, intentions or expectations. All forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those that we expected.Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations, or cautionary statements, are disclosed under the section entitled "Risk Factors" included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 and from time to time in our subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and our other SEC filings. These factors include, among others, global and regional economic and political conditions; decreases in spending on technology products and services; CDW's relationships with vendor partners and availability of their products; continued innovations in hardware, software and services offerings by CDW's vendor partners; substantial competition that could reduce CDW's market share; CDW's substantial indebtedness and ability to generate sufficient cash to service such indebtedness; restrictions imposed by agreements relating to CDW's indebtedness on its operations and liquidity; changes in, or the discontinuation of, CDW's share repurchase program or dividend payments; the continuing development, maintenance and operation of CDW's information technology systems; potential breaches of data security and failure to protect our information technology systems from cybersecurity threats; potential failures to comply with Public segment contracts or applicable laws and regulations; potential failures to provide high-quality services to CDW's customers; potential losses of any key personnel; potential interruptions of the flow of products from suppliers; potential adverse occurrences at one of CDW's primary facilities or customer data centers; increases in the cost of commercial delivery services or disruptions of those services; CDW's exposure to accounts receivable and inventory risks; fluctuations in foreign currency; future acquisitions or alliances; fluctuations in CDW's operating results; current and future legal proceedings and audits; changes in laws, including the recent US tax legislation, regulations or interpretations thereof; and other risk factors or uncertainties identified from time to time in CDW's filings with the SEC. All written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us, or persons acting on our behalf, are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained in the section entitled "Risk Factors" included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 and elsewhere in this report as well as other cautionary statements that are made from time to time in our other SEC filings and public communications. You should evaluate all forward-looking statements made in this report in the context of these risks and uncertainties.We caution you that the important factors referenced above may not contain all of the factors that are important to you. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will realize the results or developments we expect or anticipate or, even if substantially realized, that they will result in the consequences or affect us or our operations in the way we expect. The forward-looking statements 54Table of Contentsincluded in this report are made only as of the date hereof. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as otherwise required by law.Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market RiskSee "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk" in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017. As of September 30, 2018, there have been no material changes in this information.Item 4. Based on such evaluation, the Company's management, including the Company's Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, has concluded that, as of the end of such period, the Company's disclosure controls and procedures were effective in recording, processing, summarizing and reporting, on a timely basis, information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act, and that information is accumulated and communicated to the Company's management, including the Company's Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely discussions regarding required disclosure.Changes in Internal Control over Financial ReportingThere have been no changes in the Company's internal control over financial reporting during the three months ended September 30, 2018 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company's internal control over financial reporting.55Table of ContentsPART II—OTHER INFORMATIONItem 1. Risk FactorsSee "Risk Factors" in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017. Item 2. On August 3, 2017, the Company announced that its Board of Directors authorized a $750 million increase to the share repurchase program under which the Company may repurchase shares of its common stock in the open market through privately negotiated or other transactions, depending on share price, market conditions and other factors.Item 3. Defaults Upon Senior SecuritiesNone.Item 4. Mine Safety DisclosuresNot applicable.Item 5. Other InformationNone.56Table of ContentsItem 6. 1350. 1350. 57Table of ContentsSIGNATURESPursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.