See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company” and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. All Rights Reserved. All Rights Reserved. © 2018 Corning Incorporated. All Rights Reserved. © 2018 Corning Incorporated. All Rights Reserved. © 2018 Corning Incorporated. All Rights Reserved. © 2018 Corning Incorporated. All Rights Reserved. Certain information and note disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP have been omitted or condensed. All such adjustments are of a normal recurring nature. The results for interim periods are not necessarily indicative of results which may be expected for any other interim period or for the full year. Results for reporting periods beginning after January 1, 2018 are presented under Topic 606, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with our historic accounting under ASC Topic 605 “Revenue Recognition”. Because the impact of adopting the standard on Corning’s financial statements was immaterial, we have not made an adjustment to opening retained earnings. Preliminary analysis indicates that the impact of adoption will not have a material impact on Corning’s financial statements. The impact of adopting the standard on Corning’s financial statements was not material. The service cost component of net periodic pension and postretirement benefit cost is presented with other current compensation costs in operating income. Corning has applied the practical expedient which permits it to use the amounts disclosed in its pension and other postretirement benefit plan note for the prior comparative periods as the estimation basis for applying the retrospective presentation requirements. The impact of adopting the standard on Corning’s financial statements was not material. These reclassifications had no impact on our results of operations, financial position, or changes in shareholders’ equity. ASU 2016-02 will continue to classify leases as either finance or operating, with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition in the statement of income. This standard will be effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. ASU 2016-02 is required to be applied with a modified retrospective approach to each prior reporting period presented with various optional practical expedients. We are currently assessing the potential impact of adopting this standard on our financial statements and related disclosures. © 2018 Corning Incorporated. All Rights Reserved. ASU 2018-02 is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those annual periods. Early adoption is permitted. We are currently assessing the potential impact of adopting ASU 2018-02 on our financial statements. Results for reporting periods beginning after January 1, 2018 are presented under Topic 606, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with our historic accounting under ASC Topic 605 “Revenue Recognition”. Accordingly, we have not made any adjustment to opening retained earnings. Revenue is recognized when all performance obligations under the terms of a contract with our customer are satisfied, and control of the product has been transferred to the customer. If customer acceptance clauses are present and it cannot be objectively determined that control has been transferred, revenue is only recorded when customer acceptance is received and all performance obligations have been satisfied. Sales tax, value-added tax, and other taxes we collect concurrent with revenue-producing activities are excluded from revenue. Incidental contract costs that are not material in the context of the delivery of goods and services are recognized as expense. Where we have offered product warranties, we also establish liabilities for estimated warranty costs based upon historical experience and specific warranty provisions. Warranty liabilities are adjusted when experience indicates the expected outcome will differ from initial estimates of the liability. Product warranty liabilities are not material at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017. The performance obligations under these contracts generally require services to be performed over time, resulting in either a straight-line amortization method or an input method using incurred and forecasted expense to predict revenue recognition patterns which follows satisfaction of the performance obligation. Corning’s other revenue is inconsequential to our results. All Rights Reserved. Within each product category, contract terms, conditions and economic factors affecting the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty around revenue recognition and cash flows are substantially similar. The commercial markets and selling channels are also similar. With the exception of an inconsequential amount of Telecommunications products, our product category revenues are recognized at point in time when control transfers to the customer. Prior year amounts are presented under the ASC 605 basis of revenue recognition. The majority of Corning’s cost of fulfillment as a manufacturer of products is classified as inventory, fixed assets and intangible assets, which are accounted for under the respective guidance for those asset types. Other costs of contract fulfillment are immaterial due to the nature of our products and their respective manufacturing processes. Deferred revenue and other advanced payments are not significant to our operations and are classified as part of other current liabilities in our financial statements. Customer deposits are predominately related to Display products and are classified as part of other current liabilities and other long term liabilities as appropriate, and are disclosed below. These represent non-refundable cash deposits for customers to secure rights to an amount of glass produced by Corning under long-term supply agreements. The duration of these long term supply agreements range up to ten years. As glass is shipped to customers, Corning will recognize revenue and issue credit memoranda to reduce the amount of the customer deposit liability, which are applied against customer receivables resulting from the sale of glass. In 2018, 2017 and 2016, no credit memoranda were issued. © 2018 Corning Incorporated. All Rights Reserved. A payment of $70 million was made in June 2017. At March 31, 2018, the total amount of payments due in years 2018 through 2022 is $220 million. A $35 million payment is due in the second quarter of 2018 and is classified as a current liability. The remaining $185 million is classified as a non-current liability. The stay was lifted on August 25, 2016. Corning previously established a $150 million reserve for these non-PCC asbestos claims. The estimated reserve represents the undiscounted projection of claims and related legal fees over the next 20 years. The amount may need to be adjusted in future periods as more data becomes available; however, we cannot estimate any lesser or greater liabilities at this time. At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the amount of the reserve for these non-PCC asbestos claims was $147 million. Corning has resolved these issues with a majority of its relevant insurers, and is vigorously contesting these cases with the remaining relevant insurers. Management is unable to predict the outcome of the litigation with these remaining insurers. On May 31, 2016, Corning and Dow realigned their ownership interest in Dow Corning. Following the realignment, Corning no longer owns any interest in Dow Corning. The Plan also includes releases for Corning and Dow as shareholders in exchange for contributions to the Plan. Inclusive of insurance, Dow Corning has paid approximately $1.8 billion to the Settlement Trust. As of May 31, 2016, Dow Corning had recorded a reserve for breast implant litigation of $290 million. In the event Dow Corning’s total liability for these claims exceeds such amount, Corning may be required to indemnify Dow Corning for up 50% of the excess liability. © 2018 Corning Incorporated. All Rights Reserved. At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, Dow Corning estimated the liability to commercial creditors to be within the range of $77 million to $260 million. As of May 31, 2016, Dow Corning had recorded a reserve for these claims of $107 million. In the event Dow Corning’s liability for these claims exceeds such amount, Corning may be required to indemnify Dow Corning for up 50% of the excess liability, subject to certain conditions and limits. In the opinion of management, the likelihood that the ultimate disposition of these matters will have a material adverse effect on Corning’s consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of operations, is remote. Other than certain asbestos related claims, there are no other material loss contingencies related to litigation. Under the Superfund Act, all parties who may have contributed any waste to a hazardous waste site, identified by the Agency, are jointly and severally liable for the cost of cleanup unless the Agency agrees otherwise. It is Corning’s policy to accrue for its estimated liability related to Superfund sites and other environmental liabilities related to property owned by Corning based on expert analysis and continual monitoring by both internal and external consultants. Based upon the information developed to date, management believes that the accrued reserve is a reasonable estimate of the Company’s liability and that the risk of an additional loss in an amount materially higher than that accrued is remote. At March 31, 2018, the amount of equity subject to such restrictions for consolidated subsidiaries and affiliated companies was not significant. While this amount is legally restricted, it does not result in operational difficulties since we have generally permitted subsidiaries to retain a majority of equity to support their growth programs. 4. The Company measures the fair value of its long-term debt using Level 2 inputs based primarily on current market yields for its existing debt traded in the secondary market. All Rights Reserved. The 2017 Tax Act reduces the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, and requires companies to pay a one-time transition tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred and creates new taxes on certain foreign sourced earnings. We are applying the guidance in SAB 118 when accounting for the enactment-date effects of the Act. At March 31, 2018, we have not completed our accounting for all of the tax effects of the 2017 Tax Act. We have made a reasonable estimate of certain effects of the 2017 Tax Act. However, in other cases, we have not been able to make a reasonable estimate and continue to account for those items based on our existing accounting under ASC 740, Income Taxes, and the provisions of the tax laws that were in effect immediately prior to enactment. In all cases, we will continue to make and refine our calculations as additional analysis is completed. Our estimates may also be affected as we gain a more thorough understanding of the tax law. These changes could be material to income tax expense. We recorded a provisional amount of $347 million at that time. At December 31, 2017, we recorded a one-time toll charge based on our unrepatriated earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously deferred. This charge resulted in a provisional tax expense amount of $1.1 billion. We will continue to analyze and refine our calculations related to the measurement of these balances. While Corning is not changing its assertion at this time, the Company distributed approximately $2 billion in January 2018 from two of its foreign subsidiaries to the U.S. parent of those subsidiaries. There are no incremental taxes beyond the toll charge due with respect to this distribution of cash. Our current analysis indicates that we have sufficient U.S. liquidity, including borrowing capacity, to fund foreseeable U.S. cash needs without requiring the repatriation of foreign cash. Corning’s accounting for the impact of the GILTI provisions of the 2017 Tax Act is incomplete and, as a result, it has not yet elected a policy to account for the GILTI provisions. © 2018 Corning Incorporated. All Rights Reserved. Corning has reached a preliminary agreement with the IRS Exam team to resolve the 2013 and 2014 audits. This agreement resulted in $172 million of additional tax expense in the first quarter of 2018, of which $12 million relates to interest expense, net of tax benefit. Corning will use tax attributes to cover most of the tax expense. All Rights Reserved. Accumulated impairment losses were $6.5 billion for the periods ended March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, and were generated primarily through goodwill impairments related to the Optical Communications segment. The net carrying amount of intangible assets decreased in the first quarter of 2018, primarily due to amortization of $19 million, offset by foreign currency translation adjustments of $1 million. 9. The service cost component of net periodic pension and postretirement benefit cost is presented with other current compensation costs in operating income. © 2018 Corning Incorporated. All Rights Reserved. 11. The translated earnings contracts include average rate forwards of $13.1 billion and $13.0 billion and zero-cost collars of $1.2 billion and $1.3 billion at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. The majority of the average rate forward contracts hedge a significant portion of the Company’s exposure to the Japanese yen with maturities spanning the years 2017-2022 and with gross notional values of $11.0 billion and $11.7 billion at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. The average rate forward contracts also partially hedge the impacts of the South Korean won, New Taiwan dollar, Chinese yuan, Euro and British pound translation on the Company’s projected net income. With respect to the zero-cost collars, the gross notional amount includes the value of both the put and call options. However, due to the nature of the zero-cost collars, only the put or the call option can be exercised at maturity. All Rights Reserved. © 2018 Corning Incorporated. All Rights Reserved. Observable inputs are based on market data or independent sources while unobservable inputs are based on the Company’s own market assumptions. Fair value standards apply whenever an entity is measuring fair value under other accounting pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurement and require the use of observable market data when available. All Rights Reserved. The fair value of the potential receipt of the contingent consideration was calculated to be $300 million as of December 31, 2017. The contractual value of this contingent consideration as of March 31, 2018 was $300 million. © 2018 Corning Incorporated. All Rights Reserved. The Preferred Stock is convertible at the option of the holder and the Company upon certain events, at a conversion rate of 50,000 shares of Corning’s common stock per one share of Preferred Stock, subject to certain anti-dilution provisions. As of March 31, 2018, the Preferred Stock has not been converted, and none of the anti-dilution provisions have been triggered. In the second quarter of 2017, Corning entered into and finalized an accelerated share repurchase agreement under which we paid $500 million for a total of 17.1 million shares. In the third quarter of 2017, Corning entered into and finalized an additional accelerated share repurchase agreement under which we paid $500 million for a total of 17.2 million shares. The 2018 Repurchase Program will commence when the authorization under the 2016 Repurchase Program is exhausted. Amounts in parentheses indicate debits to accumulated other comprehensive loss. All Rights Reserved. Effective beginning in the first quarter of 2018, the Company has changed its measurement of segment sales and segment net income, and has recast prior periods presented based on the new methodology. Included in this new measurement is a change in our segment tax rate to 21% to better reflect our new corporate tax rate under U.S. tax reform. Additionally, the impact of changes in the Japanese yen, Korean won, Chinese yuan and New Taiwan dollar will be excluded from segment sales and segment net income for the Display Technologies and Specialty Materials segments, and certain income and expenses that were previously allocated to our segments are now included in the unallocated amounts in the reconciliation of reportable segment net income to consolidated net income. Although we exclude these amounts from segment results, they are included in reported consolidated results. We included the earnings of equity affiliates that are closely associated with our reportable segments in the respective segment’s net income. We have allocated certain common expenses among reportable segments differently than we would for stand-alone financial information. Segment net income may not be consistent with measures used by other companies. © 2018 Corning Incorporated. All Rights Reserved. Where practicable, Corning charges these expenses to segments based upon the extent to which each business uses a centralized function. Other staff functions, such as corporate finance, human resources and legal, are allocated to segments, primarily as a percentage of sales. © 2018 Corning Incorporated. All Rights Reserved. © 2018 Corning Incorporated. All Rights Reserved. Words such as “anticipates,” “expects,” “intends,” “plans,” “goals,” “believes,” “seeks,” “estimates,” “continues,” “may,” “will,” “should,” and variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. In addition, any statements that refer to projections of our future financial performance, our anticipated growth and trends in our businesses, uncertain events or assumptions, and other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. Such statements are based on our current expectations and could be affected by the uncertainties and risk factors described throughout this filing and particularly in “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of our 2017 Form 10-K, and as may be updated in our Forms 10-Q. Our actual results may differ materially, and these forward-looking statements do not reflect the potential impact of any divestitures, mergers, acquisitions, or other business combinations that had not been completed as of March 31, 2018. The Framework outlines our leadership priorities and articulates the opportunities we see across our businesses. We designed the Framework to create significant value for shareholders by focusing our portfolio and leveraging our financial strength. Under our Framework, we target generating $26 billion to $30 billion of cash through 2019, returning more than $12.5 billion to shareholders and investing $10 billion to sustain our leadership positions and deliver growth. Corning is concentrating approximately 80% of its research, development and engineering investment and capital spending on a cohesive set of three core technologies, four manufacturing and engineering platforms, and five market-access platforms. This strategy allows us to quickly apply our talents and repurpose our assets as needed. The increase was driven by higher sales in the Optical Communications, Environmental Technologies and Life Sciences segments, up $68 million, $47 million and $22 million, respectively. © 2018 Corning Incorporated. All Rights Reserved. In our Display Technologies segment, we expect pricing to continue to improve, with year-over-year declines reaching mid-single digits, an important milestone toward our goal of stabilizing returns. We anticipate Corning’s LCD glass volume will grow faster than the expected LCD glass market growth of mid-single digits, driven by the ramp of our Gen 10.5 facility in China. In the Optical Communications segment, we expect sales to increase by about 10%, excluding any contribution from the pending acquisition of 3M’s Communications Market Division, driven by strong demand from carrier and enterprise network customers, supported by our planned capacity additions. We expect growth in the Specialty Materials segment, the rate of which will depend on new model launches and the adoption of our innovations. We expect sales growth of approximately 10% in our Environmental Technologies segment, driven by continued strength in automotive product sales, on-going improvements in the heavy-duty diesel market and from the commercial launch of gas-particulate filters. We anticipate mid-single digit growth in the Life Sciences segment. All Rights Reserved. © 2018 Corning Incorporated. All Rights Reserved. © 2018 Corning Incorporated. All Rights Reserved. As a percentage of sales, these expenses increased slightly in the first quarter, when compared to the same period last year. All Rights Reserved. All Rights Reserved. These items include gains and losses on our translated earnings contracts, acquisition-related costs, certain discrete tax items, restructuring and restructuring-related charges, certain litigation-related expenses, pension mark-to-market adjustments and other items which do not reflect on-going operating results of the Company or our equity affiliates. Additionally, Corning has adopted the use of constant currency reporting for our Display Technologies and Specialty Materials segments for the Japanese yen, South Korean won, Chinese yuan and New Taiwan dollar currencies. The Company believes that the use of constant currency reporting allows investors to understand our results without the volatility of currency fluctuations, and reflects the underlying economics of the translated earnings contracts used to mitigate the impact of changes in currency exchange rates on our earnings and cash flows. Corning also believes that reporting core performance measures provides investors greater transparency to the information used by our management team to make financial and operational decisions. We believe investors should consider these non-GAAP measures in evaluating our results as they are more indicative of our core operating performance and how management evaluates our operational results and trends. These measures are not, and should not be viewed as a substitute for, GAAP reporting measures. With respect to the Company’s outlooks for future periods, it is not possible to provide reconciliations for these non-GAAP measures because the Company does not forecast the movement of the Japanese yen, South Korean won, Chinese yuan or New Taiwan dollar against the U.S. dollar, or other items that do not reflect ongoing operations, nor does it forecast items that have not yet occurred or are out of the Company’s control. As a result, the Company is unable to provide outlook information on a GAAP basis. For a reconciliation of non-GAAP performance measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, please see “Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures” below. All Rights Reserved. The decrease of $77 million was primarily due to lower net income in the Display Technologies and Specialty Materials segments, down $60 million and $11 million, respectively, as well as lower earnings in emerging businesses, down $14 million. An increase in net income of $8 million in the Environmental Technologies segment partially offset the decrease. © 2018 Corning Incorporated. All Rights Reserved. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Results of Operations – Core Performance Measures, Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures, “Items which we exclude from GAAP measures to arrive at core performance measures” for the descriptions of the footnoted reconciling items. All Rights Reserved. Presenting results on a constant-currency basis mitigates their translation impact and allows management to evaluate performance period over period, analyze underlying trends in our businesses, and establish operational goals and forecasts. We use an internally derived management rate of yuan 6.7, which is closely aligned to our current Yuan portfolio of foreign currency hedges and consistent with historical prior period averages. We use an internally derived management rate of New Taiwan dollar 31, which is closely aligned to our current New Taiwan dollar portfolio of cash flow hedges, and approximates the 10-year historical average of the currency. All Rights Reserved. Effective beginning in the first quarter of 2018, the Company has changed its measurement of segment sales and segment net income, and has recast prior periods presented based on the new methodology. Although we exclude these amounts from segment results, they are included in reported consolidated results. We included the earnings of equity affiliates that are closely associated with our reportable segments in the respective segment’s net income. We have allocated certain common expenses among reportable segments differently than we would for stand-alone financial information. Segment net income may not be consistent with measures used by other companies. All Rights Reserved. The decrease was driven by LCD glass price declines in the high-single digits in percentage terms, partially offset by an increase in volume in the mid-single digits in line with the overall glass market. First-quarter sequential price declines were the best first quarter since 2010. Net income decreased by $60 million, or 24%, due to the LCD glass price declines described above and an increase of $12 million in manufacturing costs primarily driven by the impact of the start-up of our facility in Hefei, China. These items were partially offset by the increase in volume described above. We expect second-quarter sequential price declines to be less than the first quarter, and the best price decline performance for a second quarter we have seen in well over a decade. Strong growth in the North American and European fiber-to-the-home market drove the increase in carrier network products, and an increase in hyper-scale data centers drove the increase in enterprise network. Net income decreased by $11 million, or 19%, primarily driven by lower volume and development costs for new technology. Improvements in manufacturing efficiency partially offset the decline. © 2018 Corning Incorporated. All Rights Reserved. Automotive product sales increased by $22 million, due to market strength in Europe, China and North America, and continued sales growth of gas particulate filters. Diesel product sales increased $25 million, driven by higher demand for heavy-duty diesel products in North America and Europe. Movements in foreign exchange rates impacted net sales in the amount of $20 million when compared to the same period in 2017. Movements in foreign exchange rates impacted net income in the amount of $3 million when compared to the same period in 2017. Movements in foreign exchange rates impacted net sales in the amount of $9 million in the three months ended March 31, 2018 when compared to the same period in 2017. Movements in foreign exchange rates did not materially impact net income in the three months ended March 31, 2018 when compared to the same period in 2017. © 2018 Corning Incorporated. All Rights Reserved. The increase in the net loss in the first quarter of $14 million, or 23%, reflects higher losses in our development projects. This increase marks the seventh dividend increase since October 2011. The 2018 Repurchase Program will commence when the authorization under the 2016 Repurchase Program is exhausted. We expect our 2018 capital expenditures to be slightly more than $2.0 billion, driven by expansions related to the Gen 10.5 glass manufacturing facility, the addition of capacity to support the new gas-particulate filters business in the Environmental Technologies segment and investment to support growth in customer demand in the Optical Communications and Specialty Materials segments. © 2018 Corning Incorporated. All Rights Reserved. Our cash and cash equivalents are held in various locations throughout the world, with approximately 47% held outside of the United States, and are generally unrestricted. We utilize a variety of financing strategies to ensure that our worldwide cash is available in the locations in which it is needed. In January 2018, the Company distributed approximately $2 billion from two of its foreign subsidiaries to the U.S. parent of those subsidiaries. There were no incremental taxes beyond the toll charge due with the respect to this distribution of cash. We are currently party to two interest rate swaps that are designated as fair value hedges and economically exchange a notional amount of $550 million of previously issued fixed rate long-term debt to floating rate debt. Under the terms of the swap agreements, we pay the counterparty a floating rate that is indexed to the one-month LIBOR rate. Under this program, the Company may issue the paper from time to time and will use the proceeds for general corporate purposes. The Company’s $2 billion revolving credit facility is available to support obligations under the commercial paper program, if needed. At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 Corning did not have outstanding commercial paper. © 2018 Corning Incorporated. All Rights Reserved. We closely monitor payments and developments which may signal possible customer credit issues. We currently have not identified any potential material impact on our liquidity resulting from customer credit issues. We believe we have sufficient liquidity for the next several years to fund operations, acquisitions, asbestos litigation, capital expenditures, scheduled debt repayments, dividend payments and share repurchase programs. This credit facility includes a leverage ratio financial covenant. The required leverage ratio, which measures debt to total capital, is a maximum of 50%. At March 31, 2018, our leverage using this measure was approximately 26% and we are in compliance with the financial covenant. In addition, some of our debt instruments contain a cross default provision, whereby an uncured default in excess of a specified amount on one debt obligation of the Company, also would be considered a default under the terms of another debt instrument. As of March 31, 2018, we were in compliance with all such provisions. In addition, other than items discussed, there are no known material trends, favorable or unfavorable, in our capital resources and no expected material changes in the mix and relative cost of such resources. The estimates that require management’s most difficult, subjective or complex judgments are described in our 2017 Form 10-K and remain unchanged through the first three months of 2018. For certain items, additional details are provided below. We review our long-lived assets in each quarter in which impairment indicators are present. We must exercise judgment in assessing whether an event of impairment has occurred. These metals are not depreciated because they have very low physical losses and are repeatedly reclaimed and reused in our manufacturing process and have a very long useful life. Precious metals are reviewed for impairment as part of our assessment of long-lived assets. This review considers all of the Company’s precious metals that are either in place in the production process; in reclamation, fabrication, or refinement in anticipation of re-use; or awaiting use to support increased capacity. Precious metals are only acquired to support our manufacturing operations and are not held for trading or other purposes. These precious metals are utilized by the Display Technologies and Specialty Materials segments. Corning believes these precious metal assets to be recoverable due to the significant positive cash flow in both segments. The potential for impairment exists in the future if negative events significantly decrease the cash flow of these segments. Such events include, but are not limited to, a significant decrease in demand for products or a significant decrease in profitability in our Display Technologies or Specialty Materials segments. All Rights Reserved. Under the Superfund Act, all parties who may have contributed any waste to a hazardous waste site, identified by the Agency, are jointly and severally liable for the cost of cleanup unless the Agency agrees otherwise. It is Corning’s policy to accrue for its estimated liability related to Superfund sites and other environmental liabilities related to property owned by Corning based on expert analysis and continual monitoring by both internal and external consultants. Based upon the information developed to date, management believes that the accrued reserve is a reasonable estimate of the Company’s liability and that the risk of an additional loss in an amount materially higher than that accrued is remote. Such statements relate to future events that by their nature address matters that are, to different degrees, uncertain. These forward-looking statements relate to, among other things, the company’s future operating performance, the company's share of new and existing markets, the company's revenue and earnings growth rates, the company’s ability to innovate and commercialize new products, and the company’s implementation of cost-reduction initiatives and measures to improve pricing, including the optimization of the company’s manufacturing capacity. The company does not undertake to update forward-looking statements. © 2018 Corning Incorporated. All Rights Reserved. Volatility in the global financial markets could increase the volatility of foreign currency exchange rates which would, in turn, impact our sales and net income. For a discussion of our exposure to market risk and how we mitigate that risk, refer to Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and Part II, Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risks, contained in our 2017 Form 10-K. ITEM 4. Based on that evaluation, we have concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of that date. Corning’s disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by Corning in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to Corning’s management, including Corning’s principal executive and principal financial officers, or other persons performing similar functions, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. The chief executive officer and chief financial officer concluded that there was no change in Corning’s internal control over financial reporting that materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, internal control over financial reporting. © 2018 Corning Incorporated. All Rights Reserved. See our 2017 Form 10-K, Part I, Item 3. Risk Factors in our 2017 Form 10-K, which could materially impact our business, financial condition or future results. Risks disclosed in our 2017 Form 10-K are not the only risks facing our Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may materially adversely impact our business, financial condition or operating results. There have been no material changes to Part I, Item 1A. All Rights Reserved. © 2018 Corning Incorporated. All Rights Reserved. All Rights Reserved. All Rights Reserved. 44