EmployerIdentification No. Yes o No xThe number of shares outstanding of the registrant’s common stock as of March 23, 2018 was 492,470,335. Our interim period operating results do not necessarily indicate the results that may be expected for any other interim period or for the full fiscal year. In assessing impairment of goodwill, if it is concluded that it is more likely than not that the carrying amount of a reportable segment exceeds its fair value during the qualitative assessment, a one-step goodwill impairment test will be performed. If it is concluded during the quantitative test that the carrying amount of a reportable segment exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss shall be recognized in an amount equal to that excess, limited to the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reportable segment. The effective date of the new standard for public companies is for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019 and interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted. In the first quarter of 2018, we early adopted ASU 2017-04. We will apply the provisions of this standard during our annual goodwill impairment test which we perform during the second quarter of our fiscal year. We do not expect the standard to have a significant impact to our goodwill impairment test. Significant Accounting PoliciesThere have been no other material changes to our significant accounting policies during the three months ended March 2, 2018, as compared to the significant accounting policies described in our Annual Report.Recent Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet EffectiveOn May 28, 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, requiring an entity to recognize the amount of revenue to which it expects to be entitled for the transfer of promised goods or services to customers. The updated standard will replace most existing revenue recognition guidance in U.S. GAAP when it becomes effective and permits the use of either the full retrospective or modified retrospective transition method. In August 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. Accordingly, the updated standard is effective for us in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. We expect to adopt this updated standard in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 on a modified retrospective basis. We are currently evaluating the effect that the updated standard will have on our condensed consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.While we are continuing to assess all potential impacts of the new standard, we currently believe that the most significant impact relates to our accounting for arrangements that include on-premise term-based software licenses bundled with maintenance and support. Under current GAAP, the revenue attributable to these software licenses is recognized ratably over the term of the arrangement because VSOE does not exist for the undelivered maintenance and support element as it is not sold separately. The requirement to have VSOE for undelivered elements to enable the separation of revenue for the delivered software licenses is eliminated under the new standard. Accordingly, under the new standard we will be required to recognize as revenue a portion of the arrangement fee upon delivery of the software licenses. We expect revenue related to our professional services and cloud offerings, including Creative Cloud and Document Cloud for business enterprises, individuals and teams, to remain substantially unchanged. When sold with cloud-enabled services, Creative Cloud and Document Cloud require a significant level of integration and interdependency with software and the individual components are not considered distinct. Revenue for these offerings will continue to be recognized over the period in which the cloud services are provided. Under the new standard, we will be required to capitalize certain costs incremental to contract acquisition and amortize them over the expected period of benefit. Due to the complexity of certain of our contracts, the actual accounting treatment required under the new standard for these arrangements may be dependent on contract-specific terms and therefore may vary in some instances.On February 24, 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases, requiring lessees to recognize a right-of-use asset and a lease liability on the balance sheet for all leases with the exception of short-term leases with a lease term of twelve months or less. For lessees, leases will continue to be classified as either operating or finance leases in the income statement. Lessor accounting is similar to the current model but updated to align with certain changes to the lessee model. Lessors will continue to classify leases as operating, direct financing or sales-type leases. The effective date of the new standard for public companies is for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018 and interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted. The new standard must be adopted using a modified retrospective transition and requires application of the new guidance at the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented. The updated standard is effective for us beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and we do not plan to early adopt. We are currently evaluating the effect that the updated standard will have on our condensed consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.On August 28, 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-12, Derivatives and Hedging, requiring expanded hedge accounting for both non-financial and financial risk components and refining the measurement of hedge results to better reflect an entity's hedging strategies. The updated standard also amends the presentation and disclosure requirements and changes how entities assess hedge effectiveness. The effective date of the new standard for public companies is for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018 and interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted. The new standard must be adopted using a modified retrospective transition with a cumulative effect adjustment recorded to opening retained earnings as of the initial adoption date. The updated standard is effective for us beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and we do not plan to early adopt. We are currently evaluating the effect that the updated standard will have on our condensed consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.With the exception of the new standards discussed above, there have been no other recent accounting pronouncements or changes in accounting pronouncements during the three months ended March 2, 2018, as compared to the recent accounting pronouncements described in our Annual Report, that are of significance or potential significance to us.NOTE 2. ACQUISITIONSOn December 19, 2016, we completed our acquisition of TubeMogul, a publicly held video advertising platform company. The total final purchase price for TubeMogul was $560.8 million of which $348.4 million, was allocated to goodwill that was non-deductible for tax purposes, $113.1 million to identifiable intangible assets and $99.3 million to net assets acquired.Proforma financial information has not been presented for this acquisition as the impact to our condensed consolidated financial statements was not material.NOTE 3. CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS AND SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTSCash equivalents consist of instruments with remaining maturities of three months or less at the date of purchase. We classify all of our cash equivalents and short-term investments as “available-for-sale.” In general, these investments are free of trading restrictions. We carry these investments at fair value, based on quoted market prices or other readily available market information. Unrealized gains and losses, net of taxes, are included in accumulated other comprehensive income, which is reflected as a separate component of stockholders’ equity in our condensed consolidated balance sheets. Gains and losses are recognized when realized in our condensed consolidated statements of income. When we have determined that an other-than-temporary decline in fair value has occurred, the amount of the decline that is related to a credit loss is recognized in income. Gains and losses are determined using the specific identification method. We consider factors such as the length of time and extent to which the market value has been less than the cost, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer and our intent to sell, or whether it is more likely than not we will be required to sell the investment before recovery of the investment’s amortized cost basis. If we believe that an other-than-temporary decline exists in one of these securities, we write down these investments to fair value. Any portion not related to credit loss would be recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income, which is reflected as a separate component of stockholders’ equity in our condensed consolidated balance sheets. During the three months ended March 2, 2018 and March 3, 2017, we did not consider any of our investments to be other-than-temporarily impaired. NOTE 4. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTSAssets and Liabilities Measured and Recorded at Fair Value on a Recurring BasisWe measure certain financial assets and liabilities at fair value on a recurring basis. Our fixed income available-for-sale debt securities consist of high quality, investment grade securities from diverse issuers with a weighted average credit rating of AA-. We value these securities based on pricing from independent pricing vendors who use matrix pricing valuation techniques including market approach methodologies that model information generated by market transactions involving identical or comparable assets, as well as discounted cash flow methodologies. Inputs include quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or inputs other than quoted prices that are observable either directly or indirectly in determining fair value, including benchmark yields, issuer spreads off benchmark yields, interest rates and U.S. Treasury or swap curves. We therefore classify all of our fixed income available-for-sale securities as Level 2. We perform routine procedures such as comparing prices obtained from multiple independent sources to ensure that appropriate fair values are recorded. The fair values of our money market mutual funds and time deposits are based on the closing price of these assets as of the reporting date. We classify our money market mutual funds and time deposits as Level 1. Our Level 2 over-the-counter foreign currency and interest rate swap derivatives are valued using pricing models and discounted cash flow methodologies based on observable foreign exchange and interest rate data at the measurement date.Our deferred compensation plan assets consist of money market mutual funds and other mutual funds. If we determine that an other-than-temporary impairment has occurred, we write down the investment to its fair value. We estimate fair value of our cost and equity method investments considering available information such as pricing in recent rounds of financing, current cash positions, earnings and cash flow forecasts, recent operational performance and any other readily available market data. For the three months ended March 2, 2018 and March 3, 2017, we determined there were no other-than-temporary impairments of our cost and equity method investments. The fair value of our senior notes was $1.93 billion as of March 2, 2018, based on observable market prices in less active markets and categorized as Level 2. See Note 13 for further details regarding our debt.NOTE 5. DERIVATIVES AND HEDGING ACTIVITIESHedge Accounting and Hedging ProgramsWe recognize derivative instruments and hedging activities as either assets or liabilities in our condensed consolidated balance sheets and measure them at fair value. In addition, we enter into master netting arrangements which have the ability to further limit credit-related losses with the same counterparty by permitting net settlement of transactions. Balance Sheet Hedging—Hedges of Foreign Currency Assets and LiabilitiesWe also hedge our net recognized foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities with foreign exchange forward contracts to reduce the risk that the value of these assets and liabilities will be adversely affected by changes in exchange rates. These contracts do not subject us to material balance sheet risk due to exchange rate movements because gains and losses on these derivatives are intended to offset gains and losses on the assets and liabilities being hedged. Cash Flow Hedging—Hedges of Forecasted Foreign Currency Revenue and Interest Rate RiskIn countries outside the United States, we transact business in U.S. Dollars and in various other currencies. We may use foreign exchange option contracts or forward contracts to hedge certain cash flow exposures resulting from changes in these foreign currency exchange rates. These foreign exchange contracts, carried at fair value, have maturities of up to twelve months. We enter into these foreign exchange contracts to hedge a portion of our forecasted foreign currency denominated revenue in the normal course of business and accordingly, they are not speculative in nature. When the forecasted transaction occurs, we reclassify the related gain or loss on the cash flow hedge to revenue. Fair Value Hedging - Hedges of Interest Rate Risk In fiscal 2014, we entered into interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges related to our $900 million of 4.75% fixed interest rate senior notes due February 1, 2020. In effect, the interest rate swaps convert the fixed interest rate on these senior notes to a floating interest rate based on LIBOR. Under the terms of the swaps, we will pay monthly interest at the one-month LIBOR interest rate plus a fixed number of basis points on the $900 million notional amount through February 1, 2020. In exchange, we will receive 4.75% fixed rate interest from the swap counterparties. See Note 13 for further details regarding our debt.The interest rate swaps are accounted for as fair value hedges and substantially offset the changes in fair value of the hedged portion of the underlying debt that are attributable to the changes in market risk. GOODWILL AND PURCHASED AND OTHER INTANGIBLESGoodwill as of March 2, 2018 and December 1, 2017 was $5.84 billion and $5.82 billion, respectively. Of these amounts, $16.7 million and $18.7 million were included in cost of sales for the three months ended March 2, 2018 and March 3, 2017, respectively.During the three months ended March 2, 2018, certain purchased intangibles associated with our acquisitions of Omniture, Inc. and Day Software Holding AG became fully amortized and were removed from the condensed consolidated balance sheets. We accrue for media costs related to impressions purchased from third-party ad inventory sources. Other primarily includes general corporate accruals for local and regional expenses. Other is also comprised of deferred rent related to office locations with rent escalations and foreign currency liability derivatives.NOTE 8. The Tax Act reduces the U.S. federal statutory tax rate from 35% to 21% effective January 1, 2018. For fiscal 2018, our blended U.S. federal statutory tax rate is 22.2%. This is the result of using the tax rate of 35% for the first month of fiscal 2018 and the reduced tax rate of 21% for the remaining eleven months of fiscal 2018. The Tax Act also requires us to incur a one-time transition tax on deferred foreign income not previously subject to U.S. income tax at a rate of 15.5% for foreign cash and certain other net current assets, and 8% on the remaining income, in each case reduced by certain foreign tax credits. The Tax Act also includes a provision to tax global intangible low-taxed income of foreign subsidiaries, a special tax deduction for foreign-derived intangible income, and a base erosion anti-abuse tax measure that may tax certain payments between a U.S. corporation and its subsidiaries. These additional provisions of the Tax Act will be effective for us beginning December 1, 2018.The Tax Act is effective in the first quarter of our fiscal 2018. As of March 2, 2018, we have not completed our accounting for the tax effects of the Tax Act. During the quarter, we recorded a provisional tax charge based on reasonable estimates for those tax effects using the current available information and technical guidance on the interpretations of the Tax Act. New guidance or interpretations may materially impact our provision for income taxes in future periods. Additional information that is needed to complete the analysis but is currently unavailable includes, but is not limited to, the amount of earnings of certain subsidiaries as well as the amount of foreign taxes paid on such earnings for our fiscal 2018, the final determination of certain net deferred tax assets subject to remeasurement and when the related temporary differences will be settled or realized, and the tax treatment of such provisions of the Tax Act by various state tax authorities. In addition, we do not currently have sufficient information and guidance to determine the impact of certain changes to the taxation of our foreign earnings that will become effective for us in fiscal 2019. The provisional accounting impacts may change in future reporting periods until our accounting analysis is finalized, which will occur no later than one year from the enactment date, as permitted by SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin 118, Income Tax Accounting Implications of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.As a result of the reduction in the federal corporate tax rate, we remeasured our deferred taxes as of the date of enactment of the Tax Act resulting in a provisional tax charge of $10 million based on the tax rate that is expected to apply when such deferred taxes are settled or realized in future periods. We have not yet completed our accounting for the measurement of deferred taxes. To calculate the remeasurement of deferred taxes, we estimated when the existing deferred taxes will be settled or realized. To calculate the transition tax, we estimated our deferred foreign income for fiscal 2017 and 2018 because these tax returns are not complete or due. The fiscal 2017 and fiscal 2018 taxable income will be known once the respective tax returns are completed and filed. In addition, U.S. and foreign audit settlements may significantly impact the estimated transition tax. The impact of the U.S. and foreign audits on the transition tax will be known as the audits are concluded. We currently intend to elect to pay the federal transition tax over a period of eight years as permitted by the Tax Act.Certain international provisions introduced in the Tax Act will be effective for us in fiscal 2019. We need additional information to complete our analysis on whether to adopt an accounting policy to account for the tax effects of these provisions in the period that it is subject to such tax, or to provide deferred taxes for book and tax basis differences that upon reversal may be subject to these taxes. Accordingly, we have not recorded any tax with respect to these provisions in the three months ended March 2, 2018. We will make an accounting policy election and complete the required accounting no later than the first quarter of fiscal 2019.NOTE 9. As reported by the NASDAQ Global Select Market, the market values as of March 2, 2018 and March 3, 2017 were $209.79 and $120.04, respectively. Summary of Performance Shares Our Performance Share Programs aim to help focus key employees on building stockholder value, provide significant award potential for achieving outstanding Company performance and enhance the ability of the Company to attract and retain highly talented and competent individuals. The Executive Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors approves the terms of each of our Performance Share Programs, including the award calculation methodology, under the terms of our 2003 Equity Incentive Plan. Shares may be earned based on the achievement of an objective relative total stockholder return measured over a three-year performance period. Performance share awards will be awarded and fully vest upon the Executive Compensation Committee's certification of the level of achievement following the three-year anniversary of each grant date. Program participants generally have the ability to receive up to 200% of the target number of shares originally granted.In the first quarter of fiscal 2018, the Executive Compensation Committee approved the 2018 Performance Share Program.In the first quarter of fiscal 2018, the Executive Compensation Committee also certified the actual performance achievement of participants in the 2015 Performance Share Program. Actual performance resulted in participants achieving 200% of target or approximately 1.0 million shares. The shares granted and achieved under the 2015 Performance Share Program fully vested on the three-year anniversary of the grant on January 24, 2018, if not forfeited. In the first quarter of fiscal 2017, the Executive Compensation Committee certified the actual performance achievement of participants in the 2014 Performance Share Program. Actual performance resulted in participants achieving 198% of target or approximately 1.1 million shares. The shares granted and achieved under the 2014 Performance Share Program fully vested on the three-year anniversary of the grant on January 24, 2017, if not forfeited. As of March 2, 2018, the shares awarded under our 2018, 2017 and 2016 Performance Share Programs are yet to be achieved. The remaining awarded shares were for the 2018 Performance Share Program. The remaining awarded shares were for the 2017 Performance Share Program.Summary of Employee Stock Purchase Plan SharesThe expected life of the ESPP shares is the average of the remaining purchase periods under each offering period. The intrinsic value of shares purchased during the three months ended March 2, 2018 and March 3, 2017 was $54.3 million and $20.4 million, respectively. The intrinsic value is calculated as the difference between the market value on the date of purchase and the purchase price of the shares.Summary of Stock Options The Executive Compensation Committee of Adobe’s Board of Directors eliminated the use of stock option grants for all employees and the Board of Directors effective fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2014, respectively. As of March 2, 2018 and December 1, 2017, we had 0.1 million and 0.3 million stock options outstanding, respectively. Compensation CostsAs of March 2, 2018, there was $1.19 billion of unrecognized compensation cost, adjusted for estimated forfeitures, related to non-vested stock-based awards which will be recognized over a weighted average period of 2.2 years. Total unrecognized compensation cost will be adjusted for future changes in estimated forfeitures. When treasury stock is re-issued at a price higher than its cost, the difference is recorded as a component of additional paid-in-capital in our condensed consolidated balance sheets. When treasury stock is re-issued at a price lower than its cost, the difference is recorded as a component of additional paid-in-capital to the extent that there are treasury stock gains to offset the losses. Stock Repurchase Program To facilitate our stock repurchase program, designed to return value to our stockholders and minimize dilution from stock issuances, we may repurchase shares in the open market or enter into structured repurchase agreements with third parties. In January 2017, our Board of Directors approved a new stock repurchase program granting us authority to repurchase up to $2.5 billion in common stock through the end of fiscal 2019. The new stock repurchase program approved by our Board of Directors is similar to our previous stock repurchase programs.During the three months ended March 2, 2018 and March 3, 2017, we entered into several structured stock repurchase agreements with large financial institutions, whereupon we provided them with prepayments totaling $300 million and $200 million, respectively. We only enter into such transactions when the discount that we receive is higher than the foregone return on our cash prepayments to the financial institutions. There were no explicit commissions or fees on these structured repurchases. Under the terms of the agreements, there is no requirement for the financial institutions to return any portion of the prepayment to us. The financial institutions agree to deliver shares to us at monthly intervals during the contract term. During the three months ended March 2, 2018, we repurchased approximately 1.6 million shares at an average price of $185.13 through structured repurchase agreements entered into during fiscal 2017 and the three months ended March 2, 2018. During the three months ended March 3, 2017 we repurchased approximately 2.2 million shares at an average price of $107.54 through structured repurchase agreements entered into during fiscal 2016 and the three months ended March 3, 2017. As of March 2, 2018, $100.3 million of prepayment remained under this agreement.Subsequent to March 2, 2018, as part of the $2.5 billion stock repurchase authority approved in January 2017, we entered into a structured stock repurchase agreement with a large financial institution whereupon we provided them with a prepayment of $700 million. This amount will be classified as treasury stock on our condensed consolidated balance sheets. Upon completion of the $700 million stock repurchase agreement, $900 million remains under our current authority. NOTE 11. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIESRoyaltiesWe have royalty commitments associated with the licensing of certain offerings. Royalty expense is generally based on a dollar amount per unit sold or a percentage of the underlying revenue.IndemnificationsIn the ordinary course of business, we provide indemnifications of varying scope to customers and channel partners against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of our products and from time to time, we are subject to claims by our customers under these indemnification provisions. Historically, costs related to these indemnification provisions have not been significant and we are unable to estimate the maximum potential impact of these indemnification provisions on our future results of operations. To the extent permitted under Delaware law, we have agreements whereby we indemnify our officers and directors for certain events or occurrences while the officer or director is or was serving at our request in such capacity. The indemnification period covers all pertinent events and occurrences during the officer’s or director’s lifetime. The maximum potential amount of future payments we could be required to make under these indemnification agreements is unlimited; however, we have director and officer insurance coverage that reduces our exposure and enables us to recover a portion of any future amounts paid. We believe the estimated fair value of these indemnification agreements in excess of applicable insurance coverage is minimal.Legal ProceedingsIn connection with disputes relating to the validity or alleged infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, including patent rights, we have been, are currently and may in the future be subject to claims, negotiations or complex, protracted litigation. Intellectual property disputes and litigation may be very costly and can be disruptive to our business operations by diverting the attention and energies of management and key technical personnel. Third-party intellectual property disputes could subject us to significant liabilities, require us to enter into royalty and licensing arrangements on unfavorable terms, prevent us from licensing certain of our products or offering certain of our services, subject us to injunctions restricting our sale of products or services, cause severe disruptions to our operations or the markets in which we compete, or require us to satisfy indemnification commitments with our customers including contractual provisions under various license arrangements and service agreements.In addition to intellectual property disputes, we are subject to legal proceedings, claims and investigations in the ordinary course of business, including claims relating to commercial, employment and other matters. Some of these disputes and legal proceedings may include speculative claims for substantial or indeterminate amounts of damages. We consider all claims on a quarterly basis in accordance with GAAP and based on known facts assess whether potential losses are considered reasonably possible, probable and estimable. Based upon this assessment, we then evaluate disclosure requirements and whether to accrue for such claims in our financial statements. This determination is then reviewed and discussed with our Audit Committee and our independent registered public accounting firm.We make a provision for a liability when it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. These provisions are reviewed at least quarterly and adjusted to reflect the impacts of negotiations, settlements, rulings, advice of legal counsel and other information and events pertaining to a particular case. Litigation is inherently unpredictable. However, we believe that we have valid defenses with respect to the legal matters pending against us. It is possible, nevertheless, that our consolidated financial position, cash flows or results of operations could be negatively affected by an unfavorable resolution of one or more of such proceedings, claims or investigations.In connection with our anti-piracy efforts, conducted both internally and through organizations such as the Business Software Alliance, from time to time we undertake litigation against alleged copyright infringers. Such lawsuits may lead to counter-claims alleging improper use of litigation or violation of other laws. We believe we have valid defenses with respect to such counter-claims; however, it is possible that our consolidated financial position, cash flows or results of operations could be negatively affected in any particular period by the resolution of one or more of these counter-claims.NOTE 13. Our proceeds were $900 million and were net of an issuance discount of $5.5 million. In addition, we incurred issuance costs of $6.4 million. Both the discount and issuance costs are being amortized to interest expense over the term of the 2020 Notes using the effective interest method. The effective interest rate including the discount and issuance costs is 4.92%. Interest is payable semi-annually, in arrears, on February 1 and August 1, and commenced on August 1, 2010. In June 2014, we entered into interest rate swaps with a total notional amount of $900 million designated as a fair value hedge related to our 2020 Notes. The interest rate swaps effectively convert the fixed interest rate on our 2020 Notes to a floating interest rate based on LIBOR. Under the terms of the swap, we will pay monthly interest at the one-month LIBOR interest rate plus a fixed number of basis points on the $900 million notional amount. In exchange, we will receive 4.75% fixed rate interest from the swap counterparties. Our proceeds were approximately $989.3 million which is net of an issuance discount of $10.7 million. In addition, we incurred issuance costs of $7.9 million. Both the discount and issuance costs are being amortized to interest expense over the term of the 2025 Notes using the effective interest method. The effective interest rate including the discount, issuance costs and interest rate agreement is 3.67%. Interest is payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1, and commenced on August 1, 2015. The Notes rank equally with our other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness. We may redeem the Notes at any time, subject to a make-whole premium. In addition, upon the occurrence of certain change of control triggering events, we may be required to repurchase the Notes, at a price equal to 101% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of repurchase. The Notes also include covenants that limit our ability to grant liens on assets and to enter into sale and leaseback transactions, subject to significant allowances. As of March 2, 2018, we were in compliance with all of the covenants.In February 2018, we made semi-annual interest payments on our 2020 and 2025 Notes totaling $37.6 million. Pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement, we may, subject to the agreement of the applicable lenders, request up to an additional $500 million in commitments, for a maximum aggregate commitment of $1.5 billion. Commitment fees are payable quarterly at rates between 0.08% and 0.20% per year, also based on our debt ratings. Subject to certain conditions stated in the Credit Agreement, we and any of our subsidiaries designated as additional borrowers may borrow, prepay and re-borrow amounts under the revolving credit facility at any time during the term of the Credit Agreement. On July 27, 2015, we entered into an amendment to further extend the maturity date to July 27, 2020 and reallocated the facility among the syndicate of lenders that are parties to the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement contains customary representations, warranties, affirmative and negative covenants, including a financial covenant, events of default and indemnification provisions in favor of the lenders. The negative covenants include restrictions regarding the incurrence of liens and indebtedness, certain merger and acquisition transactions, dispositions and other matters, all subject to certain exceptions. The financial covenant, based on a quarterly financial test, requires us not to exceed a maximum leverage ratio. On July 27, 2015, we entered into an amendment to further extend the maturity date to July 27, 2020 and reallocated the facility among the syndicate of lenders that are parties to the Credit Agreement. SEGMENTSWe report segment information based on the “management” approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments.Our CEO, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments, but does not review operating expenses on a segment by segment basis. These segments provide our senior management with a comprehensive financial view of our key businesses. Our segments are aligned around our two strategic growth opportunities described above, placing our Publishing business in a third segment that contains some of our mature products and solutions. Additionally, in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, we moved our legacy enterprise offerings—Adobe Connect web conferencing platform and Adobe LiveCycle, an enterprise document and forms platform—from our Digital Experience segment into Publishing, in order to more closely align our Digital Experience business with the strategic growth opportunity. Our customers include traditional content creators, web application developers and digital media professionals, as well as their management in marketing departments and agencies, companies and publishers. Our customers also include knowledge workers who create, collaborate and distribute documents. Our customers include digital marketers, advertisers, publishers, merchandisers, web analysts, chief marketing officers, chief information officers and chief revenue officers.•Publishing—Our Publishing segment addresses market opportunities ranging from the diverse authoring and publishing needs of technical and business publishing to our legacy type and OEM printing businesses. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONSThe following discussion should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto.In addition to historical information, this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements, including statements regarding product plans, future growth, market opportunities, strategic initiatives, industry positioning, customer acquisition, the amount of recurring revenue and revenue growth. In addition, when used in this report, the words “will,” “expects,” “could,” “would,” “may,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “seeks,” “targets,” “estimates,” “looks for,” “looks to,” “continues” and similar expressions, as well as statements regarding our focus for the future, are generally intended to identify forward-looking statements. Each of the forward-looking statements we make in this report involves risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section entitled “Risk Factors” in Part II, Item 1A of this report. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to the forward-looking statements or reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document, except as required by law.BUSINESS OVERVIEWFounded in 1982, Adobe Systems Incorporated is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, marketers, knowledge workers, application developers, enterprises and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing and engaging with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, devices and media. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and certain local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on personal and server-based computers, as well as on smartphones, tablets and other devices, depending on the product. Our executive offices and principal facilities are located at 345 Park Avenue, San Jose, California 95110-2704. Our telephone number is 408-536-6000 and our website is www.adobe.com. Investors can obtain copies of our SEC filings from this site free of charge, as well as from the SEC website at www.sec.gov. In our Digital Media segment, we are a market leader with Creative Cloud, our subscription-based offering for creating and publishing content and applications. Creative Cloud delivers value through frequent product updates, storage and access to user files stored in the cloud with syncing of files across users’ machines, access to marketplace, social and community-based features with our Adobe Stock and Behance services, app creation capabilities and affordable pricing for cost-sensitive customers.We offer Creative Cloud for individuals, students, teams and enterprises. We expect Creative Cloud will drive sustained long-term revenue growth through a continued expansion of our customer base by acquiring new users on account of low cost of entry and delivery of additional features and value to Creative Cloud, as well as keeping existing customers current on our latest release. We have also built out a marketplace for Creative Cloud subscribers to enable the delivery and purchase of stock content in our Adobe Stock service. Overall, our strategy with Creative Cloud is designed to enable us to increase our revenue with users, attract more new customers, and grow a recurring and predictable revenue stream that is recognized ratably. 27Table of ContentsWe continue to implement strategies that will accelerate awareness, consideration and purchase of subscriptions to our Creative Cloud offerings. These strategies include increasing the value Creative Cloud users receive, such as offering new mobile applications, as well as targeted promotions and offers that attract past customers and potential users to try out and ultimately subscribe to Creative Cloud. Acrobat provides reliable creation and exchange of electronic documents, regardless of platform or application source type. Document Cloud, which we believe enhances the way people manage critical documents at home, in the office and across devices, includes Adobe Acrobat DC and Adobe Sign, and a set of integrated services enabling users to create, review, approve, sign and track documents whether on a desktop or mobile device. ARR should be viewed independently of revenue, deferred revenue and unbilled deferred revenue as ARR is a performance metric and is not intended to be combined with any of these items. We adjust our reported ARR on an annual basis to reflect any material exchange rates changes. Our reported ARR results in fiscal 2018 are based on currency rates set at the start of fiscal 2018 and held constant throughout the year. Document Cloud ARR exiting the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was $647 million, up from $614 million at the end of fiscal 2017. Total Digital Media ARR grew to $5.72 billion at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2018, up from $5.39 billion at the end of fiscal 2017. Our success in driving growth in ARR has positively affected our revenue growth. Creative revenue in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was $1.23 billion, up from $942.2 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2017 and representing 30% year-over-year growth. Document Cloud revenue in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was $231.0 million, up from $195.9 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2017 as we continue to transition Document Cloud to a subscription-based model. Total Digital Media segment revenue grew to $1.46 billion in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, up from $1.14 billion in the first quarter of fiscal 2017 and representing 28% year-over-year growth. We are a market leader in the fast-growing category addressed by our Digital Experience segment. Our Digital Experience business provides comprehensive solutions that include analytics, social marketing, targeting, media optimization, digital experience management, cross-channel campaign management, audience management, premium video delivery and monetization. These comprehensive solutions enable marketers to measure, personalize and optimize marketing campaigns and digital experiences across channels for optimal marketing performance. These customers often are involved in workflows that utilize other Adobe products, such as our Digital Media offerings. By combining the creativity of our Digital Media business with the science of our Digital Experience business, we help our customers to more efficiently and effectively make, manage, measure and monetize their content across every channel with an end-to-end workflow and feedback loop.We utilize a direct sales force to market and license our Adobe Experience Cloud solutions, as well as an extensive ecosystem of partners, including marketing agencies, systems integrators and independent software vendors that help license and deploy our solutions to their customers. We have made significant investments to broaden the scale and size of all of these routes to market, and our recent financial results reflect the success of these investments. We achieved record Adobe Experience Cloud revenue of $554.1 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, which represents 16% year-over-year growth. In the first quarter of fiscal 2018, in order to more closely align our Digital Experience segment with the strategic growth opportunity, we moved two legacy enterprise offerings, LiveCycle and Connect, from our Digital Experience segment to our Publishing segment. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATESIn preparing our condensed consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the SEC, we make assumptions, judgments and estimates that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our assumptions, judgments and estimates on historical experience and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. On a regular basis, we evaluate our assumptions, judgments and estimates. We also discuss our critical accounting policies and estimates with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.We believe that the assumptions, judgments and estimates involved in the accounting for revenue recognition and income taxes have the greatest potential impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements. These areas are key components of our results of operations and are based on complex rules requiring us to make judgments and estimates, so we consider these to be our critical accounting policies. Historically, our assumptions, judgments and estimates relative to our critical accounting policies have not differed materially from actual results.There have been no significant changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates during the three months ended March 2, 2018, as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates disclosed in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 1, 2017.Recent Accounting PronouncementsSee Note 1 of our notes to condensed consolidated financial statements for information regarding recent accounting pronouncements that are of significance or potential significance to us. 29Table of ContentsRESULTS OF OPERATIONSFinancial Performance Summary for the First Quarter of Fiscal 2018•Total Digital Media ARR of approximately $5.72 billion as of March 2, 2018 increased by $336 million, or 6%, from $5.39 billion as of December 1, 2017. The change in our Digital Media ARR is primarily due to strong adoption of our Creative Cloud and Adobe Document Cloud subscription offerings. •Creative revenue during the three months ended March 2, 2018 of $1.23 billion increased by $287.3 million, or 30% compared with the year-ago period. The increase was primarily due to the increase in subscription revenue associated with our Creative Cloud offerings.•Adobe Experience Cloud revenue of $554.1 million during the three months ended March 2, 2018 increased by $76.8 million, or 16%, compared with the year-ago period. The increase was primarily due to the increase in subscription revenue across our offerings•Our total deferred revenue of $2.57 billion as of March 2, 2018 increased by $77.7 million, or 3%, from $2.49 billion as of December 1, 2017 primarily due to increases in new contracts and the timing of renewals for our Digital Experience hosted service offerings. •Cost of revenue of $258.9 million during the three months ended March 2, 2018 increased by $21.6 million, or 9%, compared with the year-ago period primarily due to increases in royalty costs, hosting services and data center costs. •Operating expenses of $1.12 billion during the three months ended March 2, 2018 increased by $142.0 million, or 15%, compared with the year-ago period primarily due to increases in costs associated with increased headcount, our incentive compensation program and stock-based compensation expense. We recognize subscription revenue ratably over the term of agreements with our customers, beginning on the commencement of the service. Our support revenue also includes technical support and developer support to partners and developer organizations related to our desktop products. Revenue associated with our Creative offerings, which includes our Creative Cloud, perpetually licensed Creative and stock photography offerings, increased during the three months ended March 2, 2018 as compared to the three months ended March 3, 2017. The increase was primarily due to an increase in subscription revenue associated with our Creative Cloud offerings driven by increases in individual, team and enterprise subscriptions. Adobe Document Cloud revenue, which includes our Acrobat product family and Adobe Sign service, increased during the three months ended March 2, 2018 as compared to the year ago period primarily due to increases in Document Cloud subscriptions revenue and Acrobat perpetual revenue.Digital ExperienceRevenue from Digital Experience increased $76.8 million during the three months ended March 2, 2018, as compared to the three months ended March 3, 2017 primarily due to an increase in subscription revenue associated with our Marketing Cloud offerings largely due to continued adoption of our AEM offerings and an increase in revenue associated with Adobe Campaign. Within each geographic region, the fluctuations in revenue by reportable segment were attributable to the factors noted in the segment information above. Foreign currency impacts to revenue for the three months ended March 2, 2018 are shown below. We enter into contracts with third parties for hosting services and use of data center facilities. Our data center costs largely consist of the amounts we pay to these third parties for rack space, power and similar items. Cost of subscription revenue also includes media costs related to impressions purchased from third-party ad inventory sources for our Advertising Cloud offerings. Research and Development Research and development expenses consist primarily of salary and benefit expenses for software developers, contracted development efforts, third party fees for hosting services, related facilities costs and expenses associated with computer equipment used in software development. We will continue to focus on long-term opportunities available in our end markets and make significant investments in the development of our subscription and service offerings, applications and tools.Sales and MarketingSales and marketing expenses consist primarily of salary and benefit expenses, sales commissions, travel expenses and related facilities costs for our sales, marketing, order management and global supply chain management personnel. Sales and marketing expenses also include the costs of programs aimed at increasing revenue, such as advertising, trade shows, public relations and other market development programs. Sales and marketing expense as a percentage of revenue during the three months ended March 2, 2018 decreased year over year primarily due to our revenue growing at a faster pace compared with the increase in sales and marketing expenses. Interest on our senior notes is payable semi-annually, in arrears, on February 1 and August 1. Floating interest payments on the interest rate swaps are paid monthly. The fixed-rate interest receivable on the swaps is received semi-annually concurrent with the senior notes interest payments. The increase was primarily due to accounting for the effects of the Tax Act enacted on December 22, 2017. The Tax Act transitions the U.S. tax system to a new territorial system and lowers the statutory corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%. The reduction of the statutory federal corporate tax rate to 21% became effective on January 1, 2018. In fiscal 2018, our statutory federal corporate tax rate is a blended rate of 22.2%, which will be reduced to 21% in fiscal 2019 and thereafter. We have made provisional estimates of the accounting impacts of certain provisions of the Tax Act. We continue to obtain, analyze and interpret additional guidance issued and will revise our estimates as additional information becomes available. We recorded a provisional transition tax expense of $118 million on these earnings, which is comprised of $86 million for fiscal year 2018 plus other ancillary effects recorded in the first fiscal quarter, long term income taxes payable of $533 million, and a reduction in our deferred tax liability of $415 million. We intend to elect to pay the federal transition tax over a period of eight years as permitted by the Tax Act.We are a United States-based multinational company subject to tax in multiple U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions. A significant portion of our foreign earnings for the current fiscal year were earned by our Irish subsidiaries. As part of the adoption of a territorial tax system, the Tax Act also provides an exemption from federal income taxes for distributions from foreign subsidiaries made after December 31, 2017 that were not subject to the one-time transition tax. When we decide to repatriate the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries for use in the U.S., the earnings from our foreign subsidiaries will generally not be subject to U.S. federal tax.See Note 8 for further information regarding the provision for income taxes and impacts related to the Tax Act on our financial statements.Accounting for Uncertainty in Income TaxesThe gross liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits excluding interest and penalties were $156.7 million and $152.2 million for the three months ended March 2, 2018 and March 3, 2017, respectively. If $110.6 million and $126.4 million were recognized, these would affect our effective tax rates for the three months ended March 2, 2018 and March 3, 2017, respectively, which were net of the estimated $46.1 million and $25.8 million federal benefit related to taking deductions on certain payments for the respective periods.The combined amount of accrued interest and penalties related to tax positions taken on our tax returns were approximately $20.0 million and $17.2 million for the three months ended March 2, 2018 and March 3, 2017, respectively. These amounts were included in non-current income taxes payable in their respective years.The timing of the resolution of income tax examinations is highly uncertain as are the amounts and timing of tax payments that are part of any audit settlement process. These events could cause large fluctuations in the balance sheet classification of current and non-current assets and liabilities. We believe that within the next 12 months, it is reasonably possible that either certain audits will conclude or statutes of limitations on certain income tax examination periods will expire, or both. Given the uncertainties described above, we can only determine a range of estimated potential decreases in underlying unrecognized tax benefits ranging from $0 to approximately $35.0 million. 36Table of ContentsLIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCESThis data should be read in conjunction with our condensed consolidated statements of cash flows. Other sources of cash are proceeds from participation in the employee stock purchase plan. The primary uses of cash are our stock repurchase program as described below, payroll-related expenses, general operating expenses including marketing, travel and office rent, and cost of revenue. Other uses of cash include business acquisitions and purchases of property and equipment.Cash Flows from Operating ActivitiesNet cash provided by operating activities of $989.6 million for the three months ended March 2, 2018 was primarily comprised of net income plus the net effect of non-cash items, including an adjustment to the deferred taxes related to the Tax Act. The primary working capital sources of cash were net income coupled with an increase in taxes payable, decrease in accounts receivable, and an increase in deferred revenue. The decrease in accounts receivable was primarily driven by improved revenue linearity. The increase in deferred revenue was primarily due to increases in Digital Experience hosted services. The primary working capital uses of cash were due to increases in prepaid expenses and decreases in accrued expenses. The increase in prepaid expense was primarily due to an increase in prepaid payroll and employee benefits. The decrease in accrued expenses was primarily driven by payments made pursuant to our incentive compensation program.Cash Flows from Investing ActivitiesNet cash used for investing activities of $93.7 million for the three months ended March 2, 2018 was primarily due to purchases of short-term investments and property and equipment. These cash outflows were offset in part by proceeds from sales and maturities of short-term investments. Cash Flows from Financing ActivitiesNet cash used for financing activities of $541.3 million for the three months ended March 2, 2018 was primarily due to payments for taxes related to net share settlement of equity awards and our treasury stock repurchases, offset by proceeds from reissuance of treasury stock. See the section titled “Stock Repurchase Program” discussed below.We expect to continue our investing activities, including short-term and long-term investments, venture capital, facilities expansion and purchases of computer systems for research and development, sales and marketing, product support and administrative staff. Furthermore, cash reserves may be used to repurchase stock under our stock repurchase program and to strategically acquire companies, products or technologies that are complementary to our business. 37Table of ContentsOther Liquidity and Capital Resources ConsiderationsOur existing cash, cash equivalents and investment balances may fluctuate during fiscal 2018 due to changes in our planned cash outlay, including changes in incremental costs such as direct and integration costs related to our acquisitions. As a result of the Tax Act enacted on December 22, 2017, all historical undistributed foreign subsidiary earnings were subject to a mandatory one-time transition tax which resulted in a provisional tax liability of $533 million reflected as long term income taxes payable and state taxes of $3 million. Under the Tax Act, the transition tax is payable over eight years beginning in fiscal 2019, with 8% due in each of the first five years, 15% in year six, 20% in year seven, and 25% in year eight. When we decide to repatriate the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries for use in the U.S., the earnings from our foreign subsidiaries will generally not be subject to U.S. federal tax. We continue to evaluate the impact of the Tax Act and the future cash needs of our global operations to determine the amount of foreign earnings that is not necessary to be permanently reinvested in our foreign subsidiaries.Cash from operations could also be affected by various risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the risks detailed in Part II, Item 1A titled “Risk Factors”. On March 1, 2013, we exercised our option under the Credit Agreement to extend the maturity date of the Credit Agreement by one year to March 2, 2018. On July 27, 2015, we entered into an amendment to further extend the maturity date of the Credit Agreement to July 27, 2020 and reallocated the facility among the syndicate of lenders that are parties to the Credit Agreement. As of March 2, 2018, there were no outstanding borrowings under this Credit Agreement and the entire $1 billion credit line remains available for borrowing. As of March 2, 2018, the amount outstanding under our senior notes was $1.9 billion, consisting of $900 million of 4.75% senior notes due February 1, 2020 and $1 billion of 3.25% senior notes due February 1, 2025. Our short-term investment portfolio is primarily invested in corporate debt securities, U.S. Treasury securities, foreign government securities, municipal securities and asset-backed securities. We use professional investment management firms to manage a large portion of our invested cash. Stock Repurchase ProgramTo facilitate our stock repurchase program, designed to return value to our stockholders and minimize dilution from stock issuances, we may repurchase shares in the open market or enter into structured repurchase agreements with third parties. In January 2017, our Board of Directors approved a new stock repurchase program granting us authority to repurchase up to $2.5 billion in common stock through the end of fiscal 2019. We only enter into such transactions when the discount that we receive is higher than the foregone return on our cash prepayments to the financial institutions. There were no explicit commissions or fees on these structured repurchases. Under the terms of the agreements, there is no requirement for the financial institutions to return any portion of the prepayment to us. The financial institutions agree to deliver shares to us at monthly intervals during the contract term. During the three months ended March 2, 2018, we repurchased approximately 1.6 million shares at an average price of $185.13 through structured repurchase agreements entered into during fiscal 2017 and the three months ended March 2, 2018. During the three months ended March 3, 2017 we repurchased approximately 2.2 million shares at an average price of $107.54 through structured repurchase agreements entered into during fiscal 2016 and the three months ended March 3, 2017. 38Table of ContentsFor the three months ended March 2, 2018, the prepayments were classified as treasury stock on our condensed consolidated balance sheets at the payment date, though only shares physically delivered to us by March 2, 2018 were excluded from the computation of earnings per share. As of March 2, 2018, $100.3 million of prepayment remained under this agreement.Subsequent to March 2, 2018, as part of the $2.5 billion stock repurchase authority approved in January 2017, we entered into a structured stock repurchase agreement with a large financial institution whereupon we provided them with a prepayment of $700 million. This amount will be classified as treasury stock on our condensed consolidated balance sheets. Upon completion of the $700 million stock repurchase agreement, $900 million remains under our current authority. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Aggregate Contractual ObligationsOur principal commitments as of March 2, 2018 consist of obligations under operating leases, royalty agreements and various service agreements. There have been no material changes in those obligations during the three months ended March 2, 2018. See Notes 12 and 13 of our notes to condensed consolidated financial statements for more detailed information regarding our contractual commitments. Senior NotesInterest on our senior notes is payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1. At March 2, 2018, our maximum commitment for interest payments was $313.0 million for the remaining duration of our senior notes. CovenantsOur credit facility contains a financial covenant requiring us not to exceed a maximum leverage ratio. As of March 2, 2018, we were in compliance with this covenant. We believe this covenant will not impact our credit or cash in the coming fiscal year or restrict our ability to execute our business plan. Our senior notes do not contain any financial covenants.Under the terms of our credit agreement we are not prohibited from paying cash dividends unless payment would trigger an event of default or one currently exists. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future.RoyaltiesWe have certain royalty commitments associated with the licensing of certain offerings. Royalty expense is generally based on a dollar amount per unit sold or a percentage of the underlying revenue.IndemnificationsIn the normal course of business, we provide indemnifications of varying scope to customers against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of our products and from time to time, we are subject to claims by our customers under these indemnification provisions. Historically, costs related to these indemnification provisions have not been significant and we are unable to estimate the maximum potential impact of these indemnification provisions on our future results of operations.To the extent permitted under Delaware law, we have agreements whereby we indemnify our directors and officers for certain events or occurrences while the director or officer is or was serving at our request in such capacity. The indemnification period covers all pertinent events and occurrences during the director’s or officer’s lifetime. The maximum potential amount of future payments we could be required to make under these indemnification agreements is unlimited, however, we have director and officer insurance coverage that limits our exposure and enables us to recover a portion of any future amounts paid. ITEM 3. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISKWe believe that there have been no material changes in our market risk exposures for the three months ended March 2, 2018, as compared with those discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 1, 2017. 39Table of ContentsITEM 4. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that our disclosure controls and procedures or our internal controls over financial reporting will prevent all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within Adobe have been detected.PART II—OTHER INFORMATIONITEM 1. LEGAL PROCEEDINGSSee Note 12 for information regarding our legal proceedings.ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSAs previously discussed, our actual results could differ materially from our forward-looking statements. Below we discuss some of the factors that could cause these differences. These and many other factors described in this report could adversely affect our operations, performance and financial condition.If we cannot continue to develop, acquire, market and offer new products and services or enhancements to existing products and services that meet customer requirements, our operating results could suffer.The process of developing and acquiring new technology products and services and enhancing existing offerings is complex, costly and uncertain. If we fail to anticipate customers’ rapidly changing needs and expectations or adapt to emerging technological trends, our market share and results of operations could suffer. We must make long-term investments, develop, acquire or obtain appropriate intellectual property and commit significant resources before knowing whether our predictions will accurately reflect customer demand for our products and services. If we misjudge customer needs in the future, our new products and services may not succeed and our revenues and earnings may be harmed. Additionally, any delay in the development, acquisition, marketing or launch of a new offering or enhancement to an existing offering could result in customer attrition or impede our ability to attract new customers, causing a decline in our revenue, earnings or stock price and weakening our competitive position. We offer our products on a variety of hardware platforms. Consumers continue to migrate from personal computers to tablet and mobile devices. If we cannot continue adapting our products to tablet and mobile devices, or if our competitors can adapt their products more quickly than us, our business could be harmed. Releases of new devices or operating systems may make it more difficult for our products to perform or may require significant costs in order for us to adapt our solutions to such devices or operating systems. Any of these factors could create downward pressure on pricing and gross margins and could adversely affect our renewal and upsell and cross-sell rates, as well as our ability to attract new customers. Our future success will depend on our continued ability to enhance and integrate our existing products and services, introduce new products and services in a timely and cost-effective manner, meet changing customer expectations and needs, extend our core technology into new applications, and anticipate emerging standards, business models, software delivery methods and other technological developments. Furthermore, some of our competitors and potential competitors enjoy competitive advantages such as greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources, broader brand awareness, and access to larger customer bases. In addition, consolidation has occurred among some of our competitors. Further consolidations in these markets may subject us to increased competitive pressures and may harm our results of operations.For additional information regarding our competition and the risks arising out of the competitive environment in which we operate, see the section entitled “Competition” contained in Part I. Item 1 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 1, 2017.Introduction of new technology could harm our business and results of operations.The expectations and needs of technology consumers are constantly evolving. Our future success depends on a variety of factors, including our continued ability to innovate, introduce new products and services efficiently, enhance and integrate our products and services in a timely and cost-effective manner, extend our core technology into new applications, and anticipate emerging standards, business models, software delivery methods and other technological developments. Integration of our products and services with one another and other companies’ offerings creates an increasingly complex ecosystem that is partly reliant on third parties. If any disruptive technology, or competing products, services or operating systems that are not compatible with our solutions, achieve widespread acceptance, our operating results could suffer and our business could be harmed. The introduction of certain technologies may reduce the effectiveness of our products. For example, some of our products rely on third-party cookies, which are placed on individual browsers when consumers visit websites that contain advertisements. We use these cookies to help our customers more effectively advertise, gauge the performance of their advertisements, and detect and prevent fraudulent activity. Consumers can block or delete cookies through their browsers or “ad-blocking” software or applications. The most common Internet browsers allow consumers to modify their browser settings to prevent cookies from being accepted by their browsers, or are set to block third-party cookies by default. Increased use of methods, software or applications that block cookies could harm our business.Some of our enterprise offerings have extended and complex sales cycles, which can make our sales cycles unpredictable.Sales cycles for some of our enterprise offerings, including our Adobe Experience Cloud solutions and ETLAs in our Digital Media business, are multi-phased and complex. As we target our sales efforts at larger enterprise customers, these trends are expected to continue and could have a greater impact on our results of operations. Additionally, our enterprise sales pattern has historically been uneven, where a higher percentage of a quarter’s total sales occur during the final weeks of each quarter, which is common in our industry. Our extended sales cycle for these products and services makes it difficult to predict when a given sales cycle will close.Subscription offerings could create risks related to the timing of revenue recognition. We generally recognize revenue from subscription offerings ratably over the terms of their subscription agreements, which range from 1 to 36 months. As a result, most of the subscription revenue we report in each quarter is the result of subscription agreements entered into during previous quarters. Any reduction in new or renewed subscriptions in a quarter may not be reflected in our revenue results until a later quarter. Lower sales, reduced demand for our products and services, and increases in our attrition rate may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. Our subscription model could also make it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue from subscription-based or hosted services through additional sales in any period, as revenue from new customers will be recognized over the applicable subscription term. Additionally, in connection with our sales efforts to enterprise customers and our use of ETLAs, a number of factors could affect our revenue, including longer-than-expected sales and implementation cycles, potential deferral of revenue due to multiple-element revenue arrangements and alternative licensing arrangements. If any of our assumptions about revenue from our subscription-based offerings prove incorrect, our actual results may vary materially from those anticipated.If our customers fail to renew subscriptions in accordance with our expectations, our future revenue and operating results could suffer.Our Adobe Experience Cloud, Creative Cloud, and Document Cloud offerings typically involve subscription based offerings pursuant to product and service agreements. Revenue from our subscription customers is generally recognized ratably over the term of their agreements, which typically range from 1 to 36 months. Our customers have no obligation to renew their subscriptions for our services after the expiration of their initial subscription period, and customers may not renew their subscriptions at the same or higher level of service, for the same number of seats or for the same duration of time, if at all. Moreover, under certain circumstances, some of our customers have the right to cancel their agreements prior to the expiration of the terms. Our varied customer base combined with the flexibility we offer in the length of our subscription-based agreements complicates our ability to precisely forecast renewal rates. If our customers do not renew their subscriptions or if they renew on terms less favorable to us, our revenue may decline.Security breaches in data centers we manage, or third parties manage on our behalf, may compromise the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of employee and customer data, which could expose us to liability and adversely affect our reputation and business.We process and store significant amounts of employee and customer data, most of which is hosted by third-party service providers. A security incident impacting our own data centers or those controlled by our service providers may compromise the confidentiality, integrity or availability of this data. Unauthorized access to or disclosure of data stored by Adobe or our service providers may occur through break-ins, breaches of a secure network by an unauthorized party, employee theft or misuse or other misconduct. It is also possible that unauthorized access to or disclosure of customer data may be obtained through inadequate use of security controls by customers or employees. Accounts created with weak or recycled passwords could allow cyber-attackers to gain access to customer data. Additionally, failure by customers to remove accounts of their own employees, or the granting of accounts by the customer in an uncontrolled manner, may allow for access by former or unauthorized customer representatives. If there were an inadvertent disclosure of customer information, or if a third party were to gain unauthorized access to the information we possess on behalf of our customers, our operations could be disrupted, our reputation could be damaged and we could be subject to claims or other liabilities, regulatory investigations, or fines. In addition, such perceived or actual unauthorized disclosure of the information we collect or breach of our security could damage our reputation, result in the loss of customers and harm our business.We rely on data centers managed both by Adobe and third parties to host and deliver our services, as well as access, collect, use, transmit, and store data, and any interruptions or delays in these hosted services, or failures in data collection or transmission could expose us to liability and harm our business and reputation.Much of our business relies on hardware and services that are hosted, managed, and controlled directly by Adobe or third-party service providers, including our online store at adobe.com, Creative Cloud, Document Cloud, and Experience Cloud solutions. We do not have redundancy for all of our systems, many of our critical applications reside in only one of our data centers, and our disaster recovery planning may not account for all eventualities. If our business relationship with a third-party provider of hosting or content delivery services is negatively affected, or if one of our content delivery suppliers were to terminate its agreement with us, we might not be able to deliver the corresponding hosted offerings to our customers, which could subject us to reputational harm, costly and time intensive notification requirements, and cause us to lose customers and future business. Occasionally, we migrate data among data centers and to third-party hosted environments. Furthermore, our ability to collect and report data may be delayed or interrupted by a number of factors, including access to the Internet, the failure of our network or software systems, security breaches or significant variability in visitor traffic on customer websites. In addition, computer viruses, worms, or other malware may harm our systems, causing us to lose data, and the transmission of computer viruses or other malware could expose us to litigation or regulatory investigation, and costly and time intensive notification requirements. We may also find, on occasion, that we cannot deliver data and reports to our customers in near real time because of a number of factors, including significant spikes in customer activity on their websites or failures of our network or software. If we fail to plan infrastructure capacity appropriately and expand it proportionally with the needs of our customer base, and we experience a rapid and significant demand on the capacity of our data centers or those of third parties, service outages could occur and our customers could suffer impaired performance of our services. Such a strain on our infrastructure capacity could subject us to regulatory notification requirements, violations of service level agreement commitments, financial liabilities, result in customer dissatisfaction, or harm our business. If we supply inaccurate information or experience interruptions in our ability to capture, store and supply information in near real time or at all, our reputation could be harmed and we could lose customers, or we could be found liable for damages or incur other losses.Increasing regulatory focus on privacy issues and expanding laws could impact our business models and expose us to increased liability.U.S. privacy and data security laws apply to our various businesses. We also do business globally in countries that have more stringent data protection laws than those in the United States that may be inconsistent across jurisdictions and are subject to evolving and differing interpretations. Governments, privacy advocates and class action attorneys are increasingly scrutinizing how companies collect, process, use, store, share and transmit personal data. These requirements, among others, may impact demand for our offerings and force us to bear the burden of more onerous obligations in our contracts. Any perception of our practices, products or services as a violation of individual privacy rights may subject us to public criticism, class action lawsuits, reputational harm, or investigations or claims by regulators, industry groups or other third parties, all of which could disrupt our business and expose us to increased liability. Additionally, we store information on behalf of our customers and if our customers fail to comply with contractual obligations or applicable laws, it could result in litigation or reputational harm to us.Transferring personal information across international borders is becoming increasingly complex. For example, European data transfers outside the European Economic Area are highly regulated. We are closely monitoring developments related to requirements for transferring personal data outside the EU. These requirements may result in an increase in the obligations required to provide our services in the EU or in sanctions and fines for non-compliance. Several other countries, including Australia and Japan, have also established specific legal requirements for cross-border transfers of personal information. These developments in Europe and elsewhere could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.Security vulnerabilities in our products and systems could lead to reduced revenue or to liability claims.Maintaining the security of our products, computers and networks is a critical issue for us and our customers. Security researchers, criminal hackers and other third parties regularly develop new techniques to penetrate computer and network security measures and, as we have previously disclosed, certain parties have in the past managed to breach our data security systems and misused some of our systems and software in order to access our end users’ authentication and payment information. In addition, cyber-attackers also develop and deploy viruses, worms, credential stuffing attack tools, and other malicious software programs, some of which may be specifically designed to attack our products, systems, computers or networks. The costs to prevent, eliminate, notify affected parties of, or alleviate cyber- or other security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs and security vulnerabilities are significant, and our efforts to address these problems may not be successful or may be delayed and could result in interruptions, delays, cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers. It is impossible to predict the extent, frequency or impact these problems may have on us.Outside parties have in the past and may in the future attempt to fraudulently induce our employees or users of our products or services to disclose sensitive information via illegal electronic spamming, phishing or other tactics. Unauthorized parties may also attempt to gain physical access to our facilities in order to infiltrate our information systems or attempt to gain logical access to our products, services, or information systems for the purpose of exfiltrating content and data. These actual and potential breaches of our security measures and the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure or unauthorized dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive, personal or confidential data about us, our employees, our customers or their end users, including the potential loss or disclosure of such information or data as a result of hacking, fraud, trickery or other forms of deception, could expose us, our employees, our customers or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information. This may result in litigation and liability or fines, our compliance with costly and time intensive notice requirements, governmental inquiry or oversight or a loss of customer confidence, any of which could harm our business or damage our brand and reputation, possibly impeding our present and future success in retaining and attracting new customers and thereby requiring time and resources to repair our brand and reputation. These risks will likely increase as we expand our hosted offerings, integrate our products and services, and store and process more data, including personal information.These problems affect our products and services in particular because cyber-attackers tend to focus their efforts on popular offerings with a large user base, and we expect them to continue to do so. Critical vulnerabilities may be identified in some of our applications. These vulnerabilities could cause such applications to crash and could allow an attacker to take control of the affected system, which could result in liability to us or limit our ability to conduct our business and deliver our products and services to customers. We devote significant resources to address security vulnerabilities through engineering more secure products, enhancing security and reliability features in our products and systems, code hardening, conducting rigorous penetration tests, deploying updates to address security vulnerabilities and improving our incident response time, but these security vulnerabilities cannot be totally eliminated. The cost of these steps could reduce our operating margins, and we may be unable to implement these measures quickly enough to prevent cyber-attackers from gaining unauthorized access into our systems and products. If we do not make the appropriate level of investment in our technology systems or if our systems become out-of-date or obsolete and we are not able to deliver the quality of data security customers require, our business could be adversely affected. Customers may also adopt security measures designed to protect their existing computer systems from attack, which could delay adoption of new technologies. Further, if we or our customers are subject to a future attack, or our technology is used in a third-party attack, we could be subject to costly and time intensive notice requirements, and it may be necessary for us to take additional extraordinary measures and make additional expenditures to take appropriate responsive and preventative steps. Any of these events could adversely affect our revenue or margins. Moreover, delayed sales, lower margins or lost customers resulting from disruptions caused by cyber-attacks or preventative measures could adversely affect our financial results, stock price and reputation.We may not realize the anticipated benefits of past or future investments or acquisitions, and integration of acquisitions may disrupt our business and management.We may not realize the anticipated benefits of an investment or acquisition of a company, division, product or technology, each of which involves numerous risks. These principles are subject to interpretation by the SEC and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles, how the principles are interpreted, or the adoption of new accounting principles can have a significant effect on our reported results, and could even retroactively affect previously reported transactions, and may require that we make significant changes to our systems, processes and controls.Changes resulting from these new standards may result in materially different financial results and may require that we change how we process, analyze and report financial information and that we change financial reporting controls. For additional information regarding these updated standards, see the section titled “Recent Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Effective” within Part II. Item 8, Note 1. Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies.Such changes in accounting principles may have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, and income, or cause an adverse deviation from our revenue and profitability targets, which may negatively impact our financial results. 45Table of ContentsChanges in tax rules and regulations, or interpretations thereof, may adversely affect our effective tax rates.We are a United States-based multinational company subject to tax in multiple U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions. The Tax Act, enacted into law on December 22, 2017, changes existing U.S. tax law applicable to us and includes adoption of a territorial tax system requiring us to incur a transition tax on previously untaxed earnings and profits of our foreign subsidiaries. A significant portion of our foreign earnings for the current fiscal year were earned by our Irish subsidiaries. As part of the adoption of a territorial tax system, the Tax Act also provides an exemption from federal income taxes for distributions from foreign subsidiaries made after December 31, 2017 that were not subject to the one-time transition tax.Our income tax expense has differed from the tax computed at the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate due primarily to discrete items and to tax on earnings from foreign operations. Unanticipated changes in our tax rates could affect our future results of operations. Our future effective tax rates could be unfavorably affected by changes in the tax rates in jurisdictions where our income is earned, by changes in or our interpretation of tax rules and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we do business, by unanticipated decreases in the amount of earnings in countries with low statutory tax rates, by unexpected negative changes in business and market conditions that could reduce certain tax benefits, or by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities.In addition, in the United States, the European Commission, countries in the European Union and other countries where we do business, we are subject to potential changes in relevant tax, accounting and other laws, regulations and interpretations, including changes to tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals such as Adobe. These countries and other governmental bodies have or could make unprecedented assertions about how taxation is determined in their jurisdictions that are contrary to the way in which we have interpreted and historically applied the rules and regulations described above in our income tax returns filed in such jurisdictions. In the current global tax policy environment, any changes in laws, regulations and interpretations related to these assertions could adversely affect our effective tax rates or result in other costs to us which could adversely affect our operations and financial results. These tax examinations are expected to focus on our intercompany transfer pricing practices as well as other matters. We regularly assess the likelihood of outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes and have reserved for adjustments that may result from these examinations. We cannot provide assurance that the final determination of any of these examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial position.The success of some of our product and service offerings depends on our ability to continue to attract and retain customers of and contributors to our online marketplaces for creative content.The success of some of our product and service offerings, such as Adobe Stock, depends on our ability to continue to attract new customers and contributors to these online marketplaces for creative content, as well as our ability to continue to retain existing customers and contributors. An increase in paying customers has generally resulted in more content from contributors, which increases the size of our collection and in turn attracts new paying customers. We rely on the functionality and features of our online marketplaces, the size and content of our collection and the effectiveness of our marketing efforts to attract new customers and contributors and retain existing ones. If sales to any of our customers outside of the Americas are reduced, delayed or canceled because of any of the above factors, our revenue may decline.We are subject to risks associated with compliance with laws and regulations globally, which may harm our business.We are a global company subject to varied and complex laws, regulations and customs, both domestically and internationally. These laws and regulations relate to a number of aspects of our business, including trade protection, import and export control, data and transaction processing security, payment card industry data security standards, records management, user-generated content hosted on websites we operate, privacy practices, data residency, corporate governance, anti-trust and competition, employee and third-party complaints, anti-corruption, gift policies, conflicts of interest, securities regulations and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment. The application of these laws and regulations to our business is often unclear and may at times conflict. For example, in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by U.S. regulations applicable to us, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. We cannot provide assurance that our employees, contractors, agents, and business partners will not take actions in violation of our internal policies or U.S. laws. Compliance with these laws and regulations may involve significant costs or require changes in our business practices that result in reduced revenue and profitability. Non-compliance could also result in fines, damages, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business, and damage to our reputation. In addition, approximately 52% of our employees are located outside the United States. Accordingly, we are exposed to changes in laws governing our employee relationships in various U.S. and foreign jurisdictions, including laws and regulations regarding wage and hour requirements, fair labor standards, employee data privacy, unemployment tax rates, workers’ compensation rates, citizenship requirements and payroll and other taxes, which likely would have a direct impact on our operating costs. Uncertainty about current and future economic conditions and other adverse changes in general political conditions in any of the major countries in which we do business could adversely affect our operating results.As our business has grown, we have become increasingly subject to the risks arising from adverse changes in economic and political conditions, both domestically and globally. Uncertainty about the effects of current and future economic and political conditions on us, our customers, suppliers and partners makes it difficult for us to forecast operating results and to make decisions about future investments. If economic growth in countries where we do business slows, customers may delay or reduce technology purchases, advertising spending or marketing spending. This could result in reductions in sales of our products and services, more extended sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition. Among our customers are government entities, including the U.S. federal government, and our revenue could decline if spending cuts impact the government’s ability to purchase our products and services. Deterioration in economic conditions in any of the countries in which we do business could also cause slower or impaired collections on accounts receivable, which may adversely impact our liquidity and financial condition.A disruption in financial markets could impair our banking partners, on which we rely for operating cash management and affect our derivative counterparties. Any of these events would likely harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 47Table of ContentsPolitical instability or adverse political developments in or around any of the major countries in which we do business would also likely harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our intellectual property portfolio is a valuable asset and we may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights, including our source code, from infringement or unauthorized copying, use or disclosure.Our intellectual property portfolio is a valuable asset. Infringement or misappropriation of our patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights and other intellectual property rights could result in lost revenues and ultimately reduce their value. Preventing unauthorized use or infringement of our intellectual property rights is inherently difficult. We actively combat software piracy as we enforce our intellectual property rights, but we nonetheless lose significant revenue due to illegal use of our software. If piracy activities continue at historical levels or increase, they may further harm our business. We apply for patents in the U.S. and internationally to protect our newly created technology and if we are unable to obtain patent protection for the technology described in our pending patent, or if the patent is not obtained timely, this could result in revenue loss, adverse effects on operations, and harm to our business. We offer our products and services in foreign countries and we may seek intellectual property protection from those foreign legal systems. Some of those foreign countries may not have as robust or comprehensive of intellectual property protection laws and schemes as those offered in the U.S. In some foreign countries, the mechanisms to enforce intellectual property rights may be inadequate to protect our technology, which could harm our business. If unauthorized disclosure of our source code occurs through security breach, cyber-attack or otherwise, we could lose future trade secret protection for that source code. The loss of future trade secret protection could make it easier for third parties to compete with our products by copying functionality, which could cause us to lose customers and could adversely affect our revenue and operating margins. We also seek to protect our confidential information and trade secrets through the use of non-disclosure agreements with our customers, contractors, vendors and partners. However, there is a risk that our confidential information and trade secrets may be disclosed or published without our authorization, and in these situations, enforcing our rights may be difficult or costly.We may incur substantial costs defending against third parties alleging that we infringe their proprietary rights.We have been, are currently, and may in the future be, subject to claims, negotiations and complex, protracted litigation relating to disputes regarding the validity or alleged infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, including patent rights. Intellectual property disputes and litigation are typically costly and can be disruptive to our business operations by diverting the attention of management and key personnel. We may not prevail in every lawsuit or dispute. Third-party intellectual property disputes, including those initiated by patent assertion entities, could subject us to significant liabilities, require us to enter into royalty and licensing arrangements on unfavorable terms, prevent us from licensing certain of our products or offering certain of our services, subject us to injunctions restricting our sale of products or services, cause severe disruptions to our operations or the markets in which we compete, or require us to satisfy indemnification commitments with our customers, including contractual provisions under various license arrangements and service agreements. In addition, we may incur significant costs in acquiring the necessary third-party intellectual property rights for use in our products, in some cases to fulfill contractual obligations with our customers. Any of these occurrences could significantly harm our business.We may incur losses associated with currency fluctuations and may not be able to effectively hedge our exposure.Our operating results are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates due to the global scope of our business. We attempt to mitigate a portion of these risks through foreign currency hedging based on our judgment of the appropriate trade-offs among risk, opportunity and expense. We regularly review our program to partially hedge our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations and make adjustments as necessary. Our hedging activities may not offset more than a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from unfavorable movement in foreign currency exchange rates, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.Failure of our third-party customer service and technical support providers to adequately address customers’ requests could harm our business and adversely affect our financial results.Our customers rely on our customer service support organization to resolve issues with our products and services. We outsource a substantial portion of our customer service and technical support activities to third-party service providers. We depend heavily on these third-party customer service and technical support representatives working on our behalf, and we expect to continue to rely heavily on third parties in the future. This strategy presents risks to our business due to the fact that we may not be able to influence the quality of support as directly as we would be able to do if our own employees performed these activities. Our customers may react negatively to providing information to, and receiving support from, third-party organizations, especially if these third-party organizations are based overseas. Nonetheless, if any single agreement with one of our distributors were terminated, any prolonged delay in securing a replacement distributor could have a negative impact on our results of operations.Successfully managing our indirect distribution channel efforts to reach various customer segments for our products and services is a complex process across the broad range of geographies where we do business or plan to do business. Our distributors and other channel partners are independent businesses that we do not control. Notwithstanding the independence of our channel partners, we face legal risk and potential reputational harm from the activities of these third parties including, but not limited to, export control violations, workplace conditions, corruption and anti-competitive behavior. We cannot be certain that our distribution channel will continue to market or sell our products and services effectively. If our distribution channel is not successful, we may lose sales opportunities, customers and revenue. Our distributors also sell our competitors’ products and services, and if they favor our competitors’ products or services for any reason, they may fail to market our products or services effectively or to devote resources necessary to provide effective sales, which would cause our results to suffer. We also distribute some products and services through our OEM channel, and if our OEMs decide not to bundle our applications on their devices, our results could suffer. In addition, the financial health of our distributors and our continuing relationships with them are important to our success. Some of these distributors may be unable to withstand adverse changes in economic conditions, which could result in insolvency, the inability of such distributors to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products and services, or a delay in paying their obligations to us.We also sell some of our products and services through our direct sales force. Risks associated with this sales channel include more extended sales and collection cycles associated with direct sales efforts, challenges related to hiring, retaining and motivating our direct sales force, and substantial amounts of ongoing training for sales representatives. Moreover, recent hires may not become as productive as we would like, as in most cases it takes a significant period of time before they achieve full productivity. Our business could be seriously harmed if our expansion efforts do not generate a corresponding significant increase in revenue and we are unable to achieve the efficiencies we anticipate. In addition, the loss of key sales employees could impact our customer relationships and future ability to sell to certain accounts covered by such employees.Contracting with government entities exposes us to additional risks inherent in the government procurement process. We provide products and services, directly and indirectly, to a variety of government entities, both domestically and internationally. Risks associated with licensing and selling products and services to government entities include more extended sales and collection cycles, varying governmental budgeting processes and adherence to complex procurement regulations and other government-specific contractual requirements. We may be subject to audits and investigations relating to our government contracts and any violations could result in various civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, payment of fines, and suspension or debarment from future government business, as well as harm to our reputation and financial results.Revenue, margin or earnings shortfalls or the volatility of the market generally may cause the market price of our stock to decline.In the past, the market price for our common stock experienced significant fluctuations and it may do so in the future. In addition, the market for technology stocks or the stock market in general may experience uneven investor confidence, which may cause the market price for our common stock to decline for reasons unrelated to our operating performance. Volatility in the market price of a company’s securities for a period of time may increase the company’s susceptibility to securities class action litigation. Oftentimes, this type of litigation is expensive and diverts management’s attention and resources which may adversely affect our business. If we are unable to recruit and retain key personnel, our business may be harmed.Much of our future success depends on the continued service, availability and performance of our senior management. These individuals have acquired specialized knowledge and skills with respect to Adobe. The loss of any of these individuals could harm our business, especially if we have not been successful in developing adequate succession plans. Our business is also dependent on our ability to retain, hire and motivate talented, highly skilled personnel across all levels of our organization. Experienced personnel in the information technology industry are in high demand and competition for their talents is intense in many areas where our employees are located. We may experience higher compensation costs to retain senior management and experienced personnel that may not be offset by improved productivity or increased sales. If we are unable to continue to successfully attract and retain key personnel, our business may be harmed. We continue to hire personnel in countries where exceptional technical knowledge and other expertise are offered at lower costs, which increases the efficiency of our global workforce structure and reduces our personnel related expenditures. Nonetheless, as globalization continues, competition for these employees in these countries has increased, which may impact our ability to retain these employees and increase our expenses resulting from competitive compensation. We may continue to expand our international operations and international sales and marketing activities, which would require significant management attention and resources. We may be unable to scale our infrastructure effectively or as quickly as our competitors in these markets, and our revenue may not increase to offset these expected increases in costs and operating expenses, causing our results to suffer. We believe that a critical contributor to our success to date has been our corporate culture, which we have built to foster innovation, teamwork and employee satisfaction. As we grow, including from the integration of employees and businesses acquired in connection with previous or future acquisitions, we may find it difficult to maintain important aspects of our corporate culture, which could negatively affect our ability to retain and recruit personnel who are essential to our future success.If our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired, then we could be required to record a significant charge to earnings.GAAP requires us to test for goodwill impairment at least annually. In addition, we review our goodwill and amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable include declines in stock price, market capitalization or cash flows, and slower growth rates in our industry. Depending on the results of our review, we could be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets were determined, negatively impacting our results of operations.We have issued $1.9 billion of notes in debt offerings and may incur other debt in the future, which may adversely affect our financial condition and future financial results. We have $1.9 billion in senior unsecured notes outstanding. We also have a $1 billion senior unsecured revolving credit agreement, which is currently undrawn. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control. If we breach any of the covenants and do not obtain a waiver from the lenders or noteholders, then, subject to applicable cure periods, any outstanding indebtedness may be declared immediately due and payable.In addition, changes by any rating agency to our credit rating may negatively impact the value and liquidity of both our debt and equity securities, as well as the potential costs associated with a refinancing of our debt. Under certain circumstances, if our credit ratings are downgraded or other negative action is taken, the interest rate payable by us under our revolving credit facility could increase. Downgrades in our credit ratings could also affect the terms of any such financing and restrict our ability to obtain additional financing in the future.Catastrophic events may disrupt our business.We are a highly automated business and rely on our network infrastructure and enterprise applications, internal technology systems and website for our development, marketing, operations, support, hosted services and sales activities. In addition, some of our businesses rely on third-party hosted services, and we do not control the operation of third-party data center facilities serving our customers from around the world, which increases our vulnerability. A disruption, infiltration or failure of these systems or third-party hosted services in the event of a major earthquake, fire, flood, tsunami or other weather event, power loss, telecommunications failure, software or hardware malfunctions, pandemics, cyber-attack, war, terrorist attack or other catastrophic event that our disaster recovery plans do not adequately address, could cause system interruptions, reputational harm, loss of intellectual property, delays in our product development, lengthy interruptions in our services, breaches of data security and loss of critical data. Any of these events could prevent us from fulfilling our customers’ orders or could negatively impact a country or region in which we sell our products, which could in turn decrease that country’s or region’s demand for our products. Our corporate headquarters, a significant portion of our research and development activities, certain of our data centers and certain other critical business operations are located in the San Francisco Bay Area, and additional facilities where we conduct significant operations are located in the Salt Lake Valley Area, both of which are near major earthquake faults. A catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our data centers or our critical business or information technology systems could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result, our future operating results could be adversely affected.Climate change may have a long-term impact on our business.While we seek to partner with organizations that mitigate their business risks associated with climate change, we recognize that there are inherent risks wherever business is conducted. Access to clean water and reliable energy in the communities where we conduct our business, whether for our offices or for our vendors, is a priority. Our major sites in California, Utah and India are vulnerable to prolonged droughts due to climate change. In the event of a natural disaster that disrupts business due to limited access to these resources, we have the potential to experience losses to our business, and added costs to resume operations.Our investment portfolio may become impaired by deterioration of the financial markets.Our cash equivalent and short-term investment portfolio as of March 2, 2018 consisted of corporate debt securities, foreign government securities and U.S. Treasury securities, money market mutual funds, municipal securities, time deposits and asset-backed securities. We follow an established investment policy and set of guidelines to monitor and help mitigate our exposure to interest rate and credit risk. The policy sets forth credit quality standards and limits our exposure to any one issuer, as well as our maximum exposure to various asset classes.Should financial market conditions worsen in the future, investments in some financial instruments may pose risks arising from market liquidity and credit concerns. In addition, any deterioration of the capital markets could cause our other income and expense to vary from expectations. As of March 2, 2018, we had no material impairment charges associated with our short-term investment portfolio, and although we believe our current investment portfolio has little risk of material impairment, we cannot predict future market conditions, market liquidity or credit availability, and can provide no assurance that our investment portfolio will remain materially unimpaired. 51Table of ContentsITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDSBelow is a summary of stock repurchases for the three months ended March 2, 2018. See Note 10 of our notes to condensed consolidated financial statements for information regarding our stock repurchase program. As of March 2, 2018, approximately $100.3 million of the prepayment remained under this agreement.ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURESNot applicable.ITEM 5. OTHER INFORMATIONNone. 52Table of ContentsITEM 6. 59