employeridentification no. Yes ý No oIndicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or an emerging growth company. Yes o No ýThe number of shares of HP common stock outstanding as of January 31, 2018 was 1,641,373,766 shares. Financial Information Item 1.Financial Statements and Supplementary Data4Item 2.Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations41Item 3.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk51Item 4.Controls and Procedures51Part II. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, any projections of net revenue, margins, expenses, effective tax rates, net earnings, net earnings per share, cash flows, benefit plan funding, deferred taxes, share repurchases, foreign currency exchange rates or other financial items; any projections of the amount, timing or impact of cost savings or restructuring and other charges; any statements of the plans, strategies and objectives of management for future operations, including, but not limited to, our sustainability goals, the execution of restructuring plans and any resulting cost savings, net revenue or profitability improvements; any statements concerning the expected development, performance, market share or competitive performance relating to products or services; any statements regarding current or future macroeconomic trends or events and the impact of those trends and events on HP and its financial performance; any statements regarding pending investigations, claims or disputes; any statements of expectation or belief, including with respect to the timing and expected benefits of acquisitions and other business combination and investment transactions; and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. HP assumes no obligation and does not intend to update these forward-looking statements.3Table of Contents Part I. Financial InformationITEM 1. The interim financial information is unaudited, but reflects all normal adjustments that are necessary to provide a fair statement of results for the interim periods presented. This interim information should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2017 in the Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed on December 14, 2017. The Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheet for October 31, 2017 was derived from audited financial statements.Principles of ConsolidationThe Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements include the accounts of HP and its subsidiaries and affiliates in which HP has a controlling financial interest or is the primary beneficiary. All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.ReclassificationsHP implemented an organizational change to align its segment and business unit financial reporting more closely with its current business structure. HP reflected this change to its segment and business unit information in prior reporting periods on an as-if basis. See Note 2, “Segment Information”, for a further discussion of HP’s segment and business unit realignments.Use of EstimatesThe preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in HP’s Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. Because the amendments only relate to the reclassification of the income tax effects of the TCJA, the underlying guidance that requires that the effect of a change in tax laws or rates be included in income from continuing operations is not affected. HP is required to adopt the guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020. Earlier adoption is permitted. HP is currently evaluating the timing and the impact of this guidance on the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.In August 2017, the FASB issued guidance, which amends the existing accounting standards for derivatives and hedging. The amendment improves the financial reporting of hedging relationships to better represent the economic results of an entity’s risk management activities in its financial statements and made certain targeted improvements to simplify the application of the hedge accounting guidance in current U.S. GAAP. HP is required to adopt the guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020. Earlier adoption is permitted. HP is currently evaluating the timing and impact of this guidance on the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.In January 2017, the FASB issued guidance, which amends the existing accounting standards for business combinations. HP is required to adopt the guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019. Earlier adoption is permitted. The guidance requires entities to present the changes in the total of cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and restricted cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows. As a result, entities will no longer present transfers between cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows. HP is required to adopt the guidance retrospectively in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019. Earlier adoption is permitted. HP is currently evaluating the timing and the impact of this guidance on the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.In October 2016, the FASB issued guidance, which amends the existing accounting for Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory. The guidance requires an entity to recognize the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers, other than inventory, when the transfer occurs. It also requires modified retrospective transition with a cumulative catch-up adjustment to opening retained earnings in the period of adoption. HP is required to adopt the guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019. Earlier adoption is permitted. HP is currently evaluating the timing and the impact of this guidance on the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.In August 2016, the FASB issued guidance, which amends the existing accounting standards for the classification of certain cash receipts and cash payments on the statement of cash flows. HP is required to adopt the guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019. Earlier adoption is permitted. HP is currently evaluating the timing and the impact of this guidance on the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements. In June 2016, the FASB issued guidance, which requires credit losses on financial assets measured at amortized cost basis to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected, not based on incurred losses. Further, credit losses on available-for-sale debt securities should be recorded through an allowance for credit losses limited to the amount by which fair value is below amortized cost. HP is required to adopt the guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021. Earlier adoption is permitted. HP is currently evaluating the timing and the impact of this guidance on the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.In February 2016, the FASB issued guidance, which amends the existing accounting standards for leases. Consistent with current guidance, the recognition, measurement, and presentation of expenses and cash flows arising from a lease by a lessee primarily will depend on its classification. Under the new guidance, a lessee will be required to recognize assets and liabilities for all leases with lease terms of more than twelve months. HP is required to adopt the guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 using a modified retrospective approach. Earlier adoption is permitted. HP is currently evaluating the timing and the impact of this guidance on the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements. In January 2016, the FASB issued guidance, which amends the existing accounting standards for the recognition and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities. The guidance primarily addresses certain aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure of financial instruments. HP is required to adopt the guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019. The amendments should be applied by means of a cumulative-effect adjustment to the balance sheet as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption, with other amendments related specifically to equity securities without readily determinable fair values applied prospectively. Earlier adoption is permitted. HP is currently evaluating the timing and the impact of this guidance on the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.In May 2014, the FASB issued guidance, which amends the existing accounting standards for revenue recognition. HP will adopt the new revenue standard in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 and intends to apply the modified retrospective method. Based on the initial assessment, it is not anticipated that the adoption will have a material impact on the amount or timing of revenue recognized in the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements. Segment Information HP is a leading global provider of personal computing and other access devices, imaging and printing products, and related technologies, solutions and services. HP’s organizational structure is based on a number of factors that the chief operating decision maker uses to evaluate, view and run its business operations, which include, but are not limited to, customer base and homogeneity of products and technology. The segments are based on this organizational structure and information reviewed by HP’s chief operating decision maker to evaluate segment results. HP groups Commercial notebooks, Commercial desktops, Commercial services, Commercial tablets and mobility devices, Commercial detachables and convertibles, Workstations, retail point-of-sale systems and thin clients into Commercial PCs and Consumer notebooks, Consumer desktops, Consumer services and Consumer detachables into Consumer PCs when describing performance in these markets. Additionally, HP offers a range of services and solutions to enterprise and SMBs to help them manage the lifecycle of their PC and mobility installed base.•Consumer PCs are optimized for consumer usage, focusing on multi-media consumption, online browsing, gaming and light productivity.Personal Systems groups its global business capabilities into Notebooks, Desktops, Workstations and Other when reporting business performance.•Notebooks consists of Consumer notebooks, Commercial notebooks, Mobile workstations and Commercial tablets and mobility devices;•Desktops includes Consumer desktops, Commercial desktops, thin clients, and retail point-of-sale systems;•Workstations consists of Desktop Workstations and accessories; and•Other consists of Consumer and Commercial services as well as other Personal Systems capabilities.Printing provides Consumer and Commercial printer hardware, Supplies, solutions and services, as well as scanning devices. Printing is also focused on imaging solutions in the commercial markets. HP goes to market through its extensive channel network and directly with HP sales. Ongoing key initiatives include design and deployment of A3 products and solutions for the copier and multifunction printer market, printer security solutions, PageWide solutions and award-winning JetIntelligence LaserJet products.•Home Printing Solutions delivers innovative printing products and solutions for the home and home business or small office customers utilizing both HP’s Ink and Laser technologies. HP derives the results of the business segments directly from its internal management reporting system.HP does not allocate certain operating expenses, which it manages at the corporate level, to its segments. These unallocated amounts include certain corporate governance costs and market-related retirement credits, stock-based compensation expense, restructuring and other charges, acquisition-related charges, amortization of intangible assets, defined benefit plan settlement charges.RealignmentEffective at the beginning of its first quarter of fiscal year 2018, HP implemented an organizational change to align its segment and business unit financial reporting more closely with its current business structure. The organizational change resulted in the transfer of long life consumables from Commercial to Supplies within the Printing segment. Certain revenues related to service arrangements, which are being eliminated for the purposes of reporting HP’s consolidated net revenue, have now been reclassified from Other to segments. HP has reflected this change to its segment and business unit information in prior reporting periods on an as-if basis. HP estimates that it will incur aggregate pre-tax charges of approximately $500 million relating to labor and non-labor actions. HP estimates that approximately half of the expected cumulative pre-tax costs will relate to severance and the remaining will relate to infrastructure, non-labor actions and other charges, as described below. HP expects around 4,000 employees to exit by the end of fiscal year 2019. The Fiscal 2015 Plan was considered substantially complete as of October 31, 2016 and HP does not expect any further activity associated with this plan. The Fiscal 2012 Plan is considered substantially complete as of October 31, 2016 and HP does not expect any further activity associated with this plan.Other ChargesOther charges include non-recurring costs, including those as a result of Separation, and are distinct from ongoing operational costs. These costs primarily relate to information technology costs such as advisory, consulting and non-recurring labor costs. Defined Benefit Plans Non-U.S. During the three months ended January 31, 2018, HP contributed $11 million to its non-U.S. pension plans, paid $10 million to cover benefit payments to U.S. non-qualified plan participants, and paid $1 million to cover benefit claims under HP’s post-retirement benefit plans. HP’s pension and other post-retirement benefit costs and obligations depend on various assumptions. Differences between expected and actual returns on investments and changes in discount rates and other actuarial assumptions are reflected as unrecognized gains or losses, and such gains or losses are amortized to earnings in future periods. A deterioration in the funded status of a plan could result in a need for additional company contributions or an increase in net pension and post-retirement benefit costs in future periods. For the three months ended January 31, 2018 and 2017, HP granted only restricted stock units. HP uses the closing stock price on the grant date to estimate the fair value of service-based restricted stock units. HP estimates the fair value of restricted stock units subject to performance-adjusted vesting conditions using a combination of the closing stock price on the grant date and the Monte Carlo simulation model. HP estimates the fair value of stock options subject to performance-contingent vesting conditions using a combination of the Monte Carlo simulation model and a lattice model, as these awards contain market conditions. HP did not grant any stock options for the three months ended January 31, 2018 and 2017. The TMA provides that HP and Hewlett Packard Enterprise will share certain pre-Separation income tax liabilities. In certain jurisdictions, HP and Hewlett Packard Enterprise have joint and several liability for past income tax liabilities and accordingly, HP could be legally liable under applicable tax law for such liabilities and required to make additional tax payments.In addition, if the distribution of Hewlett Packard Enterprise’s common shares to the HP stockholders is determined to be taxable, Hewlett Packard Enterprise and HP would share the tax liability equally, unless the taxability of the distribution is the direct result of action taken by either Hewlett Packard Enterprise or HP subsequent to the distribution, in which case the party causing the distribution to be taxable would be responsible for any taxes imposed on the distribution.Upon completion of the Separation on November 1, 2015, HP recorded income tax indemnification receivables from Hewlett Packard Enterprise for certain income tax liabilities that HP is jointly and severally liable for, but for which it is indemnified by Hewlett Packard Enterprise under the TMA. The actual amount that Hewlett Packard Enterprise may be obligated to pay HP could vary depending on the outcome of certain unresolved tax matters, which may not be resolved for several years. The net receivable as of January 31, 2018 was $1.7 billion. Provision for TaxesOn December 22, 2017, the TCJA was signed by the President of the United States and enacted into law. The law includes significant changes to the U.S. corporate income tax system, including a Federal corporate rate reduction from 35% to 21%, limitations on the deductibility of interest expense and executive compensation, and the transition of U.S. international taxation from a worldwide tax system to a territorial tax system. As a result of the TCJA, HP has calculated a U.S. federal statutory corporate income tax rate of 23% for the fiscal year ending October 31, 2018 and applied this rate in computing the first quarter of fiscal year 2018 income tax provision. The U.S. federal statutory corporate income tax rate of 23% is the weighted daily average rate between the pre-enactment U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 35% applicable to HP’s 2018 fiscal year prior to the Effective Date and the post-enactment U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 21% applicable to the 2018 fiscal year thereafter. HP expects the U.S. federal statutory rate to be 21% for fiscal years beginning after October 31, 2018.Given the significance of the legislation, the SEC staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. The impact of the TCJA may differ materially from this estimate due to changes in interpretations and assumptions HP has made, additional guidance that may be issued and actions HP may take as a result of the TCJA. The impacts of HP's estimates are described further below.While HP has not yet completed its analysis to the impact on its deferred tax balances, HP recorded provisional income tax expense of $1.2 billion related to the remeasurement of its deferred tax assets and liabilities that will reverse at the new 21% rate. HP has computed a provisional deemed repatriation tax of approximately $3.2 billion of which more than half is expected to be offset with existing and future tax attributes reducing HP’s cash outlay. Companies may elect to pay this tax over 8 years and HP intends to make this election. Further, the transition tax is based, in part, on the amount of those earnings held in cash and other specified assets. No additional income taxes have been provided for any remaining undistributed foreign earnings not subject to the transition tax, or any additional outside basis difference inherent in these entities, as these amounts continue to be indefinitely reinvested in foreign operations.As a result of the deemed repatriation tax noted above, which is based on HP’s total post-1986 deferred foreign income, HP redetermined $5.5 billion of its U.S. deferred tax liability on those unremitted earnings with a provisional tax payable of $3.2 billion, as noted above. This resulted in a net benefit. This tax benefit is provisional as HP is still analyzing certain aspects of the legislation and refining calculations, which could potentially materially affect the measurement of these amounts.In January 2018, the FASB released guidance on the accounting for tax on the Global Minimum Tax provisions of TCJA. The Global Minimum Tax provisions impose a tax on foreign income in excess of a deemed return on tangible assets of foreign corporations. The guidance indicates that either accounting for deferred taxes related to Global Minimum Tax inclusions or to treat any taxes on Global Minimum Tax inclusions as period cost are both acceptable methods subject to an accounting policy election. HP is still evaluating whether to make a policy election to treat the Global Minimum Tax as a period cost or to provide U.S. deferred taxes on foreign temporary differences that are expected to generate Global Minimum Tax income when they reverse in future years. In addition HP is still evaluating the realizability of certain deferred tax assets. The difference between the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 23% and HP’s effective tax rate for the three months ended January 31, 2018 is primarily due to the impact of U.S. tax reform, and favorable tax rates associated with certain earnings from HP’s operations in lower-tax jurisdictions throughout the world. For the three months ended January 31, 2017 HP’s effective tax rate generally differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% due to favorable tax rates associated with certain earnings from HP’s operations in lower-tax jurisdictions throughout the world. HP has not provided U.S. taxes for all foreign earnings because HP plans to reinvest some of those earnings indefinitely outside the United States.During the three months ended January 31, 2018, HP recorded $1.1 billion of net tax benefits related to discrete items in the provision for taxes. As noted above, HP has not yet completed its analysis of the full impact of TCJA however HP recorded a provisional tax benefit of $1.1 billion related to $5.5 billion net benefit for the decrease in our deferred tax liability on unremitted foreign earnings, partially offset by $3.2 billion net expense for the repatriation tax payable in installments over eight years and $1.2 billion net expense for remeasurement of our deferred tax assets and liabilities for the revaluation of our deferred assets and liabilities to the new U.S. tax rate of 21%. This amount also included tax benefits related to audit settlements, acquisition charges and other tax benefits of $32 million, $18 million and $12 million, respectively, offset by uncertain tax position charges of $43 million.During the three months ended January 31, 2017, HP recorded $1 million of net tax benefit related to discrete items in the provision for taxes. These tax benefits were offset by $26 million related to the state tax provision to return adjustments and $9 million related to various other items.During the three months ended January 31, 2018, in addition to the discrete items mentioned above, HP recorded excess tax benefits of $28.0 million, on stock options, restricted stock units and performance adjusted restricted stock units, which are reflected in the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Earnings as a component of the provision for income taxes as a result of the early adoption in fiscal 2017 of ASU 2016-09 -“Improvements to Employee Share- Based Payment Accounting”. See Note 1, “Basis of Presentation”, for more details regarding the adoption.Uncertain Tax PositionsAs of January 31, 2018, the amount of unrecognized tax benefits was $9.8 billion, of which up to $3.4 billion would affect HP’s effective tax rate if realized. The amount of unrecognized tax benefits decreased by $1.0 billion for the three months ended January 31, 2018. HP continues to record its tax liabilities related to uncertain tax positions and certain liabilities for which it has joint and several liability with Hewlett Packard Enterprise. HP recognizes interest income from favorable settlements and interest expense and penalties accrued on unrecognized tax benefits in the provision for taxes in the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Earnings. As of January 31, 2018, HP had accrued $278 million for interest and penalties.HP engages in continuous discussions and negotiations with taxing authorities regarding tax matters in various jurisdictions. HP expects to complete resolution of certain tax years with various tax authorities within the next 12 months. It is also possible that other federal, foreign and state tax issues may be concluded within the next 12 months. These financing arrangements, which in certain circumstances may contain partial recourse, result in a transfer of HP’s receivables and risk to the third party. As these transfers qualify as true sales under the applicable accounting guidance, the receivables are derecognized from the Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets upon transfer, and HP receives a payment for the receivables from the third party within a mutually agreed upon time period. For arrangements involving an element of recourse, the recourse obligation is measured using market data from the similar transactions and reported as a current liability in the Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets. The recourse obligations as of January 31, 2018 and October 31, 2017 were not material. Observable inputs are developed using market data such as publicly available information and reflect the assumptions market participants would use, while unobservable inputs are developed using the best information available about the assumptions market participants would use. HP values cash equivalents and equity investments using quoted market prices, alternative pricing sources, including net asset value, or models utilizing market observable inputs. HP uses industry standard valuation models to measure fair value. Where applicable, these models project future cash flows and discount the future amounts to present value using market-based observable inputs, including interest rate curves, HP and counterparty credit risk, foreign exchange rates, and forward and spot prices for currencies and interest rates. The portion of HP’s debt that is hedged is reflected in the Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets as an amount equal to the debt’s carrying amount and a fair value adjustment representing changes in the fair value of the hedged debt obligations arising from movements in benchmark interest rates. The fair value of HP’s short- and long-term debt was $8.1 billion as of January 31, 2018, compared to its carrying amount of $7.9 billion at that date. The fair value of HP’s short- and long-term debt was $8.1 billion as of October 31, 2017, compared to its carrying value of $7.8 billion at that date. As of January 31, 2018 and October 31, 2017, the carrying amount of cash equivalents approximated fair value due to the short period of time to maturity. As part of its risk management strategy, HP uses derivative instruments, primarily forward contracts, interest rate swaps, total return swaps and, at times, option contracts to hedge certain foreign currency, interest rate and, to a lesser extent, equity exposures. HP may designate its derivative contracts as fair value hedges or cash flow hedges and classifies the cash flows with the activities that correspond to the underlying hedged items. Additionally, for derivatives not designated as hedging instruments, HP categorizes those economic hedges as other derivatives. HP recognizes all derivative instruments at fair value in the Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets. As a result of its use of derivative instruments, HP is exposed to the risk that its counterparties will fail to meet their contractual obligations. Master netting agreements mitigate credit exposure to counterparties by permitting HP to net amounts due from HP to counterparty against amounts due to HP from the same counterparty under certain conditions. To further limit credit risk, HP has collateral security agreements that allow HP to hold collateral from, or require HP to post collateral to, counterparties when aggregate derivative fair values exceed contractually established thresholds which are generally based on the credit ratings of HP and its counterparties. If HP’s or the counterparty’s credit rating falls below a specified credit rating, either party has the right to request full collateralization of the derivatives’ net liability position. The fair value of derivatives with credit contingent features in a net liability position was $765 million and $258 million as of January 31, 2018 and as of October 31, 2017, respectively, all of which were fully collateralized within two business days.Under HP’s derivative contracts, the counterparty can terminate all outstanding trades following a covered change of control event affecting HP that results in the surviving entity being rated below a specified credit rating. HP’s foreign currency cash flow hedges mature generally within twelve months. However, hedges related to longer-term procurement arrangements extend several years and forward contracts associated with intercompany loans extend for the duration of the loan term, which typically range from two to five years.For derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges, HP initially records changes in fair value for the effective portion of the derivative instrument in accumulated other comprehensive loss as a separate component of stockholders’ deficit on the Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets and subsequently reclassifies these amounts into earnings in the period during which the hedged transaction is recognized in earnings. HP reports the effective portion of its cash flow hedges in the same financial statement line item as changes in the fair value of the hedged item.Other DerivativesOther derivatives not designated as hedging instruments consist primarily of forward contracts used to hedge foreign currency-denominated balance sheet exposures. HP uses total return swaps to hedge its executive deferred compensation plan liability. For derivative instruments not designated as hedging instruments, HP recognizes changes in fair value of the derivative instrument, as well as the offsetting change in the fair value of the hedged item, in Interest and other, net in the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Earnings in the period of change.Hedge EffectivenessFor interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges, HP measures hedge effectiveness by offsetting the change in fair value of the hedged item with the change in fair value of the derivative. For foreign currency options and forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges, HP measures hedge effectiveness by comparing the cumulative change in fair value of the hedge contract with the cumulative change in fair value of the hedged item, both of which are based on forward rates. Amounts excluded from the assessment of effectiveness are recognized in the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Earnings in the period they arise.As of January 31, 2018 and 2017, no portion of the hedging instruments’ gain or loss was excluded from the assessment of effectiveness for fair value and cash flow hedges. HP does not offset the fair value of its derivative instruments against the fair value of cash collateral posted under its collateral security agreements. Interest rates shown in the table of long-term debt have not been adjusted to reflect the impact of any interest rate swaps.Interest expense on borrowings recognized as “Interest and other, net” in the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Earnings during the three months ended January 31, 2018 and 2017 was $87 million and $73 million, respectively.Commercial PaperOn November 1, 2015, HP’s Board of Directors authorized HP to borrow up to a total outstanding principal balance of $4.0 billion, or the equivalent in foreign currencies, for the use and benefit of HP and HP’s subsidiaries, by the issuance of commercial paper or through the execution of promissory notes, loan agreements, letters of credit, agreements for lines of credit or overdraft facilities. HP increased the issuance authorization under its commercial paper program from $4.0 billion to $6.0 billion in November 2017. As of January 31, 2018, HP maintained two commercial paper programs. HP’s U.S. program provides for the issuance of U.S. dollar-denominated commercial paper up to a maximum aggregate principal amount of $6.0 billion. The combined aggregate principal amount of commercial paper outstanding under those programs at any one time cannot exceed the $6.0 billion authorized by HP’s Board of Directors.Credit FacilityAs of January 31, 2018, HP maintains a $4.0 billion, senior unsecured committed revolving credit facility to support the issuance of commercial paper or for general corporate purposes. Commitments under the revolving credit facility will be available until April 2, 2019. Commitment fees, interest rates and other terms of borrowing under the credit facilities vary based on HP’s external credit ratings. During the three months ended January 31, 2018, HP executed share repurchases of 20 million shares. Share repurchases executed during the three months ended January 31, 2018 included 0.6 million shares settled in February 2018. During the three months ended January 31, 2018, HP settled total shares for $0.5 billion. During the three months ended January 31, 2017, HP executed share repurchases of 27 million shares and settled total shares for $0.4 billion.The shares repurchased during the three months ended January 31, 2018 and 2017 were all open market repurchase transactions. As of January 31, 2018, HP had approximately $2.0 billion remaining under the share repurchase authorizations approved by HP’s Board of Directors. The assumed proceeds of a stock option include the sum of its exercise price, and average unrecognized compensation cost. HP accrues a liability when management believes that it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. HP believes it has recorded adequate provisions for any such matters and, as of January 31, 2018, it was not reasonably possible that a material loss had been incurred in excess of the amounts recognized in HP’s financial statements. HP reviews these matters at least quarterly and adjusts its accruals to reflect the impact of negotiations, settlements, rulings, advice of legal counsel, and other information and events pertaining to a particular case. Pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement, HP shares responsibility with Hewlett Packard Enterprise for certain matters, as indicated below, and Hewlett Packard Enterprise has agreed to indemnify HP in whole or in part with respect to certain matters. Based on its experience, HP believes that any damage amounts claimed in the specific matters discussed below are not a meaningful indicator of HP’s potential liability. Litigation is inherently unpredictable. However, HP believes it has valid defenses with respect to legal matters pending against it. Nevertheless, cash flows or results of operations could be materially affected in any particular period by the resolution of one or more of these contingencies.Litigation, Proceedings and InvestigationsCopyright Levies. The levies are generally based upon the number of products sold and the per-product amounts of the levies, which vary. Some European countries that do not yet have levies on digital devices are expected to implement similar legislation to enable them to extend existing levy schemes, while other European countries have phased out levies or are expected to limit the scope of levy schemes and applicability in the digital hardware environment, particularly with respect to sales to business users. In March 2010, HP filed a lawsuit against Reprobel in the French-speaking chambers of the Court of First Instance of Brussels seeking a declaratory judgment that no copyright levies are payable on sales of MFDs in Belgium or, alternatively, that copyright levies payable on such MFDs must be assessed based on the copying speed when operated in the normal print mode set by default in the device. HP subsequently appealed that court decision to the Courts of Appeal in Brussels seeking to confirm that the Belgian law is not in conformity with EU law and that, if Belgian law is interpreted in a manner consistent with EU law, no payments by HP are required or, alternatively, the payments already made by HP are sufficient to comply with its obligations under Belgian law. The case was heard by the CJEU on January 29, 2015 and on November 12, 2015, the CJEU published its judgment providing that a national legislation such as the Belgian one at issue in the main proceedings is incompatible with EU law on multiple legal points, as argued by HP. The Court of Appeal issued an appealable decision on May 12, 2017 providing that Belgian reprographic copyright levies are due notwithstanding the lack of conformity of the system with EU law in certain aspects. Applicable levies are to be calculated based on the objective speed of each MFD as established by an expert appointed by the Court of Appeal. HP appealed this decision before the Belgian Supreme Court on January 18, 2018. Based on industry opposition to the extension of levies to digital products, HP’s assessments of the merits of various proceedings and HP’s estimates of the number of units impacted and the amounts of the levies, HP has accrued amounts that it believes are adequate to address the ongoing disputes. Hewlett-Packard Company v. Oracle Corporation. HP asserted, among other things, that Oracle’s actions breached the contract that was signed by the parties as part of the settlement of the litigation relating to Oracle’s hiring of Mark Hurd. The matter eventually progressed to trial, which was bifurcated into two phases. HP prevailed in the first phase of the trial, in which the court ruled that the contract at issue required Oracle to continue to offer its software products on HP’s Itanium-based servers for as long as HP decided to sell such servers. The second phase of the trial was then postponed by Oracle’s appeal of the trial court’s denial of Oracle’s “anti-SLAPP” motion, in which Oracle argued that HP’s damages claim infringed on Oracle’s First Amendment rights. On August 27, 2015, the California Court of Appeals rejected Oracle’s appeal. The matter was remanded to the trial court for the second phase of the trial, which began on May 23, 2016 and was submitted to the jury on June 29, 2016. On June 30, 2016, the jury returned a verdict in favor of HP, awarding HP approximately $3.0 billion in damages, which included approximately $1.7 billion for past lost profits and $1.3 billion for future lost profits. On October 20, 2016, the court entered judgment for HP for this amount with interest accruing until the judgment is paid. Oracle’s motion for a new trial was denied on December 19, 2016, and Oracle filed its notice of appeal from the trial court’s judgment on January 17, 2017. On February 2, 2017, HP filed a notice of cross-appeal challenging the trial court’s denial of prejudgment interest. The schedule for appellate briefing and argument has not yet been established. HP expects that the appeals process could take several years to complete. Litigation is unpredictable, and there can be no assurance that HP will recover damages, or that any award of damages will be for the amount awarded by the jury’s verdict. The amount ultimately awarded, if any, would be recorded in the period received. No adjustment has been recorded in the financial statements in relation to this potential award. Pursuant to the terms of the separation and distribution agreement, HP and Hewlett Packard Enterprise will share equally in any recovery from Oracle once Hewlett Packard Enterprise has been reimbursed for all costs incurred in the prosecution of the action prior to the Separation.Forsyth, et al. vs. HP Inc. and Hewlett Packard Enterprise. Following a partial motion to dismiss, a motion to strike and a motion to compel arbitration that the defendants filed in November 2016, the plaintiffs amended their complaint. New plaintiffs were added, but the plaintiffs agreed that the class period for the nationwide collective action should be shortened and now starts on December 9, 2014. On January 30, 2017, the defendants filed another partial motion to dismiss and motions to compel arbitration as to several of the plaintiffs. On March 20, 2017, the defendants filed additional motions to compel arbitration as to a number of the opt-in plaintiffs. On November 30, 2017, three named plaintiffs and twelve opt-in plaintiffs filed a single arbitration demand. On February 6, 2018, the Court granted the motion to stay and denied the motion to enjoin. India Directorate of Revenue Intelligence Proceedings. Prior to the issuance of the show cause notices, HP India deposited approximately $16 million with the DRI and agreed to post a provisional bond in exchange for the DRI’s agreement to not seize HP India products and spare parts and to not interrupt the transaction of business by HP India.On April 11, 2012, the Bangalore Commissioner of Customs issued an order on the products-related show cause notice affirming certain duties and penalties against HP India and the named individuals of approximately $386 million, of which HP India had already deposited $9 million. On December 11, 2012, HP India voluntarily deposited an additional $10 million in connection with the products-related show cause notice. The differential duty demand is subject to interest. On April 20, 2012, the Commissioner issued an order on the parts-related show cause notice affirming certain duties and penalties against HP India and certain of the named individuals of approximately $17 million, of which HP India had already deposited $7 million. After the order, HP India deposited an additional $3 million in connection with the parts-related show cause notice so as to avoid certain penalties.HP India filed appeals of the Commissioner’s orders before the Customs Tribunal along with applications for waiver of the pre-deposit of remaining demand amounts as a condition for hearing the appeals. The Customs Department has also filed cross-appeals before the Customs Tribunal. On January 24, 2013, the Customs Tribunal ordered HP India to deposit an additional $24 million against the products order, which HP India deposited in March 2013. The Customs Tribunal did not order any additional deposit to be made under the parts order. In December 2013, HP India filed applications before the Customs Tribunal seeking early hearing of the appeals as well as an extension of the stay of deposit as to HP India and the individuals already granted until final disposition of the appeals. On February 7, 2014, the application for extension of the stay of deposit was granted by the Customs Tribunal until disposal of the appeals. On October 27, 2014, the Customs Tribunal commenced hearings on the cross-appeals of the Commissioner’s orders. The Customs Tribunal rejected HP India’s request to remand the matter to the Commissioner on procedural grounds. The hearings scheduled to reconvene on April 6, 2015 and again on November 3, 2015 and April 11, 2016 were canceled at the request of the Customs Tribunal. Pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement, Hewlett Packard Enterprise has agreed to indemnify HP in part, based on the extent to which any liability arises from the products and spare parts of Hewlett Packard Enterprise’s businesses.Russia GPO Anti-Corruption Investigation. The approximately $35 million transaction, which was referred to as the Russia GPO deal, spanned the years 2001 to 2006 and was for the delivery and installation of an IT network. The German PPO issued an indictment of four individuals, including one current and two former HP employees, on charges including bribery, breach of trust and tax evasion. The German PPO also requested that HP be made an associated party to the case, and, if that request is granted, HP would participate in any portion of the court proceedings that could ultimately bear on the question of whether HP should be subject to potential disgorgement of profits based on the conduct of the indicted current and former employees. On August 29, 2017, the Regional Court of Leipzig decided not to admit the matter to trial. If affirmed, this ruling will result in the termination of the prosecution. The German PPO has appealed this decision. This authentication protocol rejects some third-party ink cartridges that use non-HP security chips. Two of the cases were dismissed, and the remaining cases have been consolidated in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California, captioned In re HP Printer Firmware Update Litigation. Bus. Bus. Bus. Civ. Code § 1750, et seq. Bus. Code Ann. § 17.01, et seq. Code Ann. § 19.86.010, et seq. § 1030, et seq. On April 21, 2017, HP filed a motion to dismiss the consolidated complaint. The court held a hearing on July 14, 2017. HP’s motion to dismiss remains pending.Autonomy-Related Legal MattersInvestigations. On January 19, 2015, the U.K. Serious Fraud Office notified HP that it was closing its investigation and had decided to cede jurisdiction of the investigation to the U.S. authorities. On November 14, 2016, the DOJ announced that a federal grand jury indicted Sushovan Hussain, the former CFO of Autonomy, on charges of conspiracy to commit wire fraud and multiple counts of wire fraud. The indictment alleges that Hussain engaged in a scheme to defraud purchasers and sellers of securities of Autonomy and HP about the true performance of Autonomy’s business, its financial condition, and its prospects for growth. Trial in this matter is scheduled to begin on February 26, 2018. On November 15, 2016, the SEC announced that Stouffer Egan, the former CEO of Autonomy’s U.S.-based operations, settled charges relating to his participation in an accounting scheme to meet internal sales targets and analyst revenue expectations. HP is continuing to cooperate with the ongoing enforcement actions.Litigation. As described below, HP is involved in various stockholder litigation relating to, among other things, its October 2011 acquisition of Autonomy and its November 20, 2012 announcement that it recorded a non-cash charge for the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets within Hewlett Packard Enterprise’s software segment of approximately $8.8 billion in the fourth quarter of its 2012 fiscal year and HP’s statements that, based on HP’s findings from an ongoing investigation, the majority of this impairment charge related to accounting improprieties, misrepresentations to the market and disclosure failures at Autonomy that occurred prior to and in connection with HP’s acquisition of Autonomy and the impact of those improprieties, failures and misrepresentations on the expected future financial performance of the Autonomy business over the long-term. This stockholder litigation was commenced against, among others, certain current and former HP executive officers, certain current and former members of HP’s Board of Directors and certain advisors to HP. Pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement, HP and Hewlett Packard Enterprise share equally the cost and any damages arising from these litigation matters. The lawsuits also allege that the defendants breached their fiduciary duties, wasted corporate assets and were unjustly enriched in connection with HP’s acquisition of Autonomy and by causing HP to repurchase its own stock at allegedly inflated prices between August 2011 and October 2012. One lawsuit further alleges that certain individual defendants engaged in or assisted insider trading and thereby breached their fiduciary duties, were unjustly enriched and violated Sections 25402 and 25403 of the California Corporations Code. The litigation was stayed until June 2014. The lead plaintiff filed a stipulation of proposed settlement on June 30, 2014. The court declined to grant preliminary approval to this settlement, and, on December 19, 2014, also declined to grant preliminary approval to a revised version of the settlement. On January 22, 2015, the lead plaintiff moved for preliminary approval of a further revised version of the settlement. On March 13, 2015, the court issued an order granting preliminary approval to the settlement. On July 24, 2015, the court held a hearing to entertain any remaining objections to the settlement and decide whether to grant final approval of the settlement. On July 30, 2015, the court granted final approval to the settlement and denied all remaining objections to the settlement. Plaintiffs-appellants filed their opening briefs on December 30, 2015. HP’s response brief was filed on February 29, 2016, and the reply briefs were filed on May 12, 2016. Oral argument occurred on May 15, 2017. On November 28, 2017, the final approval order was affirmed by the Ninth Circuit.•Autonomy Corporation Limited v. Michael Lynch and Sushovan Hussain. The Particulars of Claim seek damages in excess of $5 billion from Messrs. Lynch and Hussain for breach of their fiduciary duties by causing Autonomy group companies to engage in improper transactions and accounting practices. On October 1, 2015, Messrs. Lynch and Hussain filed their defenses. Mr. Lynch also filed a counterclaim against Autonomy Corporation Limited seeking $160 million in damages, among other things, for alleged misstatements regarding Lynch. The Hewlett Packard Enterprise subsidiary claimants filed their replies to the defenses and the asserted counter-claim on March 11, 2016. The parties are actively engaged in the disclosure process. A six-month trial is scheduled to begin on March 25, 2019. On August 16, 2013, HP filed a motion to dismiss the lawsuit. On March 31, 2014, the court granted HP’s motion to dismiss this action with leave to amend. On July 16, 2014, the plaintiffs filed a second amended complaint containing substantially similar allegations and seeking substantially similar relief as the first amended complaint. On June 15, 2015, the court granted HP’s motion to dismiss the second amended complaint in its entirety and denied plaintiffs leave to file another amended complaint. On July 2, 2015, plaintiffs appealed the court’s order to the Ninth Circuit. Oral argument occurred on May 15, 2017. On January 9, 2018, the Ninth Circuit affirmed the lower court’s dismissal.EnvironmentalHP’s operations and products are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations concerning environmental protection, including laws addressing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the cleanup of contaminated sites, the content of HP’s products and the recycling, treatment and disposal of those products. In particular, HP faces increasing complexity in its product design and procurement operations as it adjusts to new and future requirements relating to the chemical and materials composition of its products, their safe use, and the energy consumption associated with those products, including requirements relating to climate change. HP could incur substantial costs, its products could be restricted from entering certain jurisdictions, and it could face other sanctions, if it were to violate or become liable under environmental laws or if its products become noncompliant with environmental laws. HP’s potential exposure includes fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third-party property damage or personal injury claims and clean-up costs. HP is also conducting environmental investigations or remediations at several current or former operating sites pursuant to administrative orders or consent agreements with state environmental agencies.The separation and distribution agreement includes provisions that provide for the allocation of environmental liabilities between HP and Hewlett Packard Enterprise including certain remediation obligations; responsibilities arising from the chemical and materials composition of their respective products, their safe use and their energy consumption; obligations under product take back legislation that addresses the collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of products; and other environmental matters. HP will generally be responsible for environmental liabilities related to the properties and other assets, including products, allocated to HP under the separation and distribution agreement and other ancillary agreements. Under these agreements, HP will indemnify Hewlett Packard Enterprise for liabilities for specified ongoing remediation projects, subject to certain limitations, and Hewlett Packard Enterprise has a payment obligation for a specified portion of the cost of those remediation projects. In addition, HP will share with Hewlett Packard Enterprise other environmental liabilities as set forth in the separation and distribution agreement. Some of those guarantees may be backed by standby letters of credit or surety bonds. In general, HP would be obligated to perform over the term of the guarantee in the event a specified triggering event occurs as defined by the guarantee. HP believes the likelihood of having to perform under a material guarantee is remote.IndemnificationsIn the ordinary course of business, HP enters into contractual arrangements under which HP may agree to indemnify a third party to such arrangement from any losses incurred relating to the services they perform on behalf of HP or for losses arising from certain events as defined within the particular contract, which may include, for example, litigation or claims relating to past performance. HP also provides indemnifications to certain vendors and customers against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the vendors’ and customers’ use of HP’s software products and services and certain other matters. Some indemnifications may not be subject to maximum loss clauses. Historically, payments made related to these indemnifications have been immaterial.Cross-Indemnifications with Hewlett Packard EnterpriseUnder the separation and distribution agreement, HP agreed to indemnify Hewlett Packard Enterprise, each of its subsidiaries and each of their respective directors, officers and employees from and against all liabilities relating to, arising out of or resulting from, among other matters, the liabilities allocated to HP as part of the Separation. Hewlett Packard Enterprise similarly agreed to indemnify HP, each of its subsidiaries and each of their respective directors, officers and employees from and against all liabilities relating to, arising out of or resulting from, among other matters, the liabilities allocated to Hewlett Packard Enterprise as part of the Separation. With this acquisition, HP now offers the industry’s strongest portfolio of A3 multifunction printers that deliver the simplicity of printers with the high performance of copiers. The fully integrated portfolio, including next generation PageWide technologies, offers opportunities to grow managed print and document services as sales models shift from transactional to contractual. HP reports the financial results of the above business in the Printing segment.The table below presents the preliminary purchase price allocation for HP's acquisition as of November 1, 2017 and reflects various preliminary fair value estimates and analyses, including preliminary work performed by third-party valuation specialists, which are subject to change within the measurement period as valuations are finalized. The primary areas of the preliminary purchase price allocation that are not yet finalized relate to the fair values of certain tangible assets and liabilities acquired, the valuation of intangible assets acquired, certain legal matters, income and non-income based taxes, and residual goodwill. HP expects to continue to obtain information to assist it in determining the fair value of the net assets acquired at the acquisition date during the measurement period. A discussion of accounting policies and estimates that we believe are important to understanding the assumptions and judgments incorporated in our reported financial results.•Results of Operations. An analysis of our operations financial results comparing the three months ended January 31, 2018 to the prior-year period. A discussion of the results of operations is followed by a more detailed discussion of the results of operations by segment.•Liquidity and Capital Resources. An analysis of changes in our cash flows and a discussion of our liquidity and financial condition.•Contractual and Other Obligations. An overview of contractual obligations, retirement and post-retirement benefit plan contributions, cost-saving plans, uncertain tax positions and off-balance sheet arrangements of our operations.The discussion of financial condition and results of our operations that follows provides information that will assist the reader in understanding our Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements, the changes in certain key items in those financial statements from year to year, and the primary factors that accounted for those changes, as well as how certain accounting principles, policies and estimates affect our Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements. This discussion should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements and the related notes that appear elsewhere in this document.OVERVIEWWe are a leading global provider of personal computing and other access devices, imaging and printing products, and related technologies, solutions, and services. We sell to individual consumers, SMBs and large enterprises, including customers in the government, health, and education sectors. The Personal Systems segment offers Commercial and Consumer desktop and notebook PCs, workstations, thin clients, Commercial tablets and mobility devices, retail point-of-sale systems, displays and other related accessories, software, support, and services for the commercial and consumer markets. The Printing segment provides Consumer and Commercial printer hardware, Supplies, solutions and services, as well as scanning devices. Corporate Investments include HP Labs and certain business incubation projects.•In Personal Systems, our strategic focus is on profitable growth through hyper market segmentation with respect to enhanced innovation in multi-operating systems, multi-architecture, geography, customer segments and other key attributes. Additionally, we are investing in premium and mobility form factors such as convertible notebooks, detachable notebooks, and mobility devices in order to meet customer preference for mobile, thinner and lighter devices. The beginning of a market shift to contractual solutions includes an increased focus on Device as a Service. We believe that we are well positioned due to our competitive product lineup.•In Printing, our strategic focus is on business printing, a shift to contractual solutions and Graphics, as well as expanding our footprint in the 3D printing marketplace. Business printing includes delivering solutions to SMBs and enterprise customers, such as multi-function and PageWide printers, including our JetIntelligence lineup of LaserJet printers. The shift to contractual solutions includes an increased focus on Managed Print Services and Instant Ink, which presents strong after-market supplies opportunities. In the Graphics space, we are focused on innovations such as our Indigo and Latex product offerings. We plan to continue to focus on shifting the mix in the installed base to higher value units and expanding our innovative Ink, Laser, Graphics and 3D printing programs. We continue to execute on our key initiatives of focusing on high-value products targeted at high usage categories and introducing new revenue delivery models. Our focus is on placing higher value printer units which offer strong annuity of toner and ink, the design and deployment of A3 products and solutions, accelerating growth in Graphic solutions and 3D printing.We continue to experience challenges that are representative of trends and uncertainties that may affect our business and results of operations. One set of challenges relates to dynamic market trends, such as flat PC device and home printing markets. Our primary competitors are exerting competitive pressure in targeted areas and are entering new markets, our emerging competitors are introducing new technologies and business models, and our alliance partners in some businesses are increasingly becoming our competitors in others. A third set of challenges relates to business model changes and our go-to-market execution.•In Personal Systems, we face challenges with continued increases in commodity costs, especially in memory, and the uncertainty of the market’s ability to absorb price increases driven by higher commodity costs.•In Printing, we are seeing signs of stabilization of demand in consumer and commercial markets, but are still experiencing an overall competitive pricing environment. We obtained a number of components from single sources due to technology, availability, price, quality or other considerations. For instance, we source the majority of our A4 and a portion of our A3 portfolio of laser printer engines and laser toner cartridges from Canon. Any decision by either party to not renew our agreement with Canon or to limit or reduce the scope of the agreement could adversely affect our net revenue from LaserJet products; however, we have a long-standing business relationship with Canon and anticipate renewal of this agreement. We are also seeing increases in commodity costs, such as oil prices, impacting our bill of materials.Our business and financial performance also depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions. The impact of these and other global macroeconomic challenges on our business cannot be known at this time.To address these challenges, we continue to pursue innovation with a view towards developing new products and services aligned with generating market demand and meeting the needs of our customers and partners. In addition, we need to continue to improve our operations, with a particular focus on enhancing our end-to-end processes and efficiencies. We also need to continue to optimize our sales coverage models, align our sales incentives with our strategic goals, improve channel execution, strengthen our capabilities in our areas of strategic focus, and develop and capitalize on market opportunities. We typically experience higher net revenues in our first and fourth quarters compared to other quarters in our fiscal year due in part to seasonal holiday demand. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, net revenues and expenses, and disclosure of contingent liabilities. The TCJA lowered our U.S. statutory federal income tax rate from 35% to 21% effective January 1, 2018, while also imposing a one-time transition tax on accumulated foreign earnings. The measurement period ends when a company has obtained, prepared, and analyzed the information necessary to finalize its accounting, but cannot extend beyond one year. The final impact of the TCJA may differ from the provisional estimates due to changes in interpretations of the TCJA, and legislative action to address questions that arise because of the TCJA, by changes in accounting standard for income taxes and related interpretations in response to the TCJA, and updates or changes to estimates used in the provisional amounts. We have determined that the $5.5 billion net benefit from the decrease in our deferred tax liability on unremitted foreign earnings, $3.2 billion of tax expense for the one-time transition tax on accumulated earnings of foreign subsidiaries, the $1.2 billion of tax expense for deferred tax asset re-measurement were each provisional amounts and reasonable estimates as of January 31, 2018. Resolution of the provisional estimates of the TCJA effects that are different from the assumptions made by us could have a material impact on our financial condition and operating results.Prior to TCJA our effective tax rate included the impact of certain undistributed foreign earnings for which we have not provided U.S. federal taxes because we had planned to reinvest such earnings indefinitely outside the United States. We plan distributions of foreign earnings based on projected cash flow needs as well as the working capital and long-term investment requirements of our foreign subsidiaries and our domestic operations. Based on these assumptions, we estimate the amount we expect to indefinitely invest outside the United States and the amounts we expect to distribute to the United States and provide the U.S. federal taxes due on amounts expected to be distributed to the United States. Further, as a result of certain employment actions and capital investments we have undertaken, income from manufacturing activities in certain jurisdictions is subject to reduced tax rates and, in some cases, is wholly exempt from taxes for fiscal years through 2027. Material changes in our estimates of cash, working capital and long-term investment requirements in the various jurisdictions in which we do business could impact how future earnings are repatriated to the United States, and our related future effective tax rate. The effects of the TCJA related to these policies are referenced and discussed in detail in Note 6, “Taxes on Earnings” to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTSFor a summary of recent accounting pronouncements applicable to our Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements see Note 1, “Basis of Presentation”, to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.RESULTS OF OPERATIONSRevenue from our international operations has historically represented, and we expect will continue to represent, a majority of our overall net revenue. As a result, our net revenue growth has been impacted, and we expect it will continue to be impacted, by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. In order to provide a framework for assessing performance excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, we supplement the year-over-year percentage change in net revenue with the year-over-year percentage change in net revenue on a constant currency basis, which excludes the effect of foreign currency exchange fluctuations calculated by translating current period revenues using monthly average exchange rates from the comparative period and hedging activities from the prior-year period and does not adjust for any repricing or demand impacts from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. This information is provided so that net revenue can be viewed with and without the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which is consistent with how management evaluates our net revenue results and trends, as management does not believe that the excluded items are reflective of ongoing operating results. The constant currency measures are provided in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the year-over-year percentage change in net revenue on a GAAP basis. U.S. net revenue increased 9% to $5.0 billion, while net revenue from international operations increased 17% to $9.5 billion. The increase in net revenue was primarily driven by growth in Notebooks, Desktops and Supplies revenue and favorable foreign currency impacts. Provision for TaxesAs a result of U.S. tax reform, we revised our estimated annual effective tax rate to reflect the change in the U.S. federal statutory tax rate from 35% to 23%. The difference between the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 23% and the Company’s effective tax rate for the three months ended January 31, 2018 is primarily due to the impact of U.S. tax reform, and favorable tax rates associated with certain earnings from our operations in lower-tax jurisdictions throughout the world. For the three months ended January 31, 2017 our effective tax rate generally differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% due to favorable tax rates associated with certain earnings from our operations in lower-tax jurisdictions throughout the world. We have not provided U.S. taxes for all foreign earnings because we plan to reinvest some of those earnings indefinitely outside the United States.During the three months ended January 31, 2018, we recorded $1.1 billion of net tax benefits related to discrete items in the provision for taxes. As discussed in the Note 6 we have not yet completed our analysis of the full impact of TCJA however we recorded a provisional tax benefit of $1.1 billion related to $5.5 billion net benefit for the decrease in our deferred tax liability on unremitted foreign earnings, partially offset by $3.2 billion net expense for the repatriation tax payable in installments over eight years and $1.2 billion net expense for remeasurement of our deferred tax assets and liabilities for the revaluation of our deferred assets and liabilities to the new US rate of 21%. This amount also included tax benefits related to audit settlements, acquisition charges and other tax benefits of $32 million, $18 million and $12 million, respectively, offset by uncertain tax position charges of $43 million.During the three months ended January 31, 2017, we recorded $1 million of net tax benefit related to discrete items in the provision for taxes. This amount included a tax benefit of $17 million related to uncertain tax positions and a tax benefit of $19 million related to restructuring charges. These tax benefits were offset by $26 million related to State tax provision to return adjustments and $9 million related to various other items. Segment InformationA description of the products and services for each segment can be found in Note 2, “Segment Information” to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference. Future changes to this organizational structure may result in changes to the segments disclosed.Realignment Effective at the beginning of its first quarter of fiscal year 2018, HP implemented an organizational change to align its segment and business unit financial reporting more closely with its current business structure. The organizational change resulted in the transfer of long-life consumables from Commercial to Supplies within the Printing segment. Certain revenues related to service arrangements, which are being eliminated for the purposes of reporting HP’s consolidated net revenue, have now been reclassified from Other to segments. HP has reflected this change to its segment and business unit information in prior reporting periods on an as-if basis. The net revenue increase was primarily due to growth in Notebooks, Desktops and Workstations and favorable foreign currency impacts. The increase in unit volume was primarily due to growth in Notebooks and Desktops. The increase in ASPs was due to favorable pricing rate, foreign currency impacts and positive mix shifts.Consumer revenue increased 12.6% for the three months ended January 31, 2018 as compared to the prior-year period, driven by growth in Notebooks and Desktops as a result of higher unit volume combined with higher ASPs. Commercial revenue increased 16.2% as compared to the prior-year period, driven by growth in Notebooks, Desktops and Workstations. Net revenue increased 16.6% in Desktops, 14.4% in Notebooks and 10.6% in Workstations as compared to the prior-year period.Personal Systems earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue decreased by 0.2 percentage points for the three months ended January 31, 2018 as compared to the prior-year period. The decrease was primarily due to a decline in gross margin partially offset by a decrease in operating expenses. The decrease in gross margin was primarily due to an increase in commodity cost partially offset by higher ASPs. The increase in net revenue was driven by increases in both Supplies and Hardware revenue, and favorable foreign currency impacts. Net revenue for Supplies increased 10.4% as compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to the acquisition of Samsung’s printer business. Printer unit volume increased 14.2% while ASPs increased 6.2% as compared to the prior-year period. The increase in printer unit volume was primarily driven by unit increases in Consumer and Commercial Hardware, including the Samsung-branded printers. The unit volume increase was primarily driven by the Inkjet Home business. The increase in ASPs was primarily driven by better discount management, mix shift to higher-end printers and favorable foreign currency impacts.Printing earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue decreased by 0.2 percentage points for the three months ended January 31, 2018 as compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to an increase in operating expenses, partially offset by improved gross margin. The gross margin increase was primarily driven by operational improvements and favorable foreign currency impacts, partially offset by lower Supplies mix. Operating expenses increased primarily driven by the acquisition of Samsung’s printer business and increases in investments in key growth initiatives and go-to-market.Corporate InvestmentsThe loss from operations in Corporate Investments for the three months ended January 31, 2018 was primarily due to expenses associated with our incubation projects.LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCESWe use cash generated by operations as our primary source of liquidity. We believe that internally generated cash flows are generally sufficient to support our operating businesses, capital expenditures, restructuring activities, maturing debt, income tax payments and the payment of stockholder dividends, in addition to investments and share repurchases. We are able to supplement this short-term liquidity, if necessary, with broad access to capital markets and credit facilities made available by various domestic and foreign financial institutions. While our access to capital markets may be constrained and our cost of borrowing may increase under certain business, market and economic conditions, our access to a variety of funding sources to meet our liquidity needs is designed to facilitate continued access to capital resources under all such conditions. Our liquidity is subject to various risks including the risks identified in the section entitled “Risk Factors” in Item 1A of Part I in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2017 and the market risks identified in the section entitled “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” in Item 3 of Part I of this report, which are incorporated herein by reference.Our cash balances are held in numerous locations throughout the world, with the majority of those amounts held outside of the United States. We utilize a variety of planning and financing strategies in an effort to ensure that our worldwide cash is available when and where it is needed. Our cash position remains strong, and we expect that our cash balances, anticipated cash flow generated from operations and access to capital markets will be sufficient to cover our expected near-term cash outlays.Amounts held outside of the United States are generally utilized to support non-U.S. liquidity needs, although a portion of those amounts may from time to time be subject to short-term intercompany loans into the United States. Where local restrictions prevent an efficient intercompany transfer of funds or restrict repatriation of earnings, our intent is that cash balances would remain outside of the United States and we would meet liquidity needs through ongoing cash flows, external borrowings or both. The TCJA made significant changes to the U.S. tax law, including a one-time transition tax on accumulated foreign earnings. The payments associated with this one-time transition tax will be paid over eight years beginning 2019. We expect a significant portion of the cash and cash equivalents held by our foreign subsidiaries will no longer be subject to U.S. income tax consequences upon a subsequent repatriation to the United States as a result of the transition tax on accumulated foreign earnings. However, a portion of this cash may still be subject to foreign income tax or withholding tax consequences upon repatriation. As we evaluate the impact of the TCJA and the future cash needs of our operations, we may revise the amount of foreign earnings considered to be permanently reinvested in our foreign subsidiaries and how to utilize such funds, including reducing our gross debt level, returning capital to shareholders with a focus on incremental share repurchase or other uses. Items which may cause the cash conversion cycle in a particular period to differ from a long-term sustainable rate include, but are not limited to, changes in business mix, changes in payment terms, extent of receivables factoring, seasonal trends and the timing of revenue recognition and inventory purchases within the period.DSO measures the average number of days our receivables are outstanding. DSO is calculated by dividing ending accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful accounts, by a 90-day average net revenue. The increase in DSO was primarily due to unfavorable foreign currency impacts and revenue linearity.DOS measures the average number of days from procurement to sale of our product. DOS is calculated by dividing ending inventory by a 90-day average cost of revenue. The increase in DOS was primarily due to leveraging our balance sheet, particularly through strategic inventory investments.DPO measures the average number of days our accounts payable balances are outstanding. DPO is calculated by dividing ending accounts payable by a 90-day average cost of revenue. Outstanding borrowings increased to $7.9 billion as of January 31, 2018 as compared to $7.8 billion as of October 31, 2017, bearing weighted-average interest rates of 4.1% and 4.0% for January 31, 2018 and October 31, 2017, respectively. Our weighted-average interest rate reflects the average effective rate on our borrowings prevailing during the period and reflects the impact of interest rate swaps. For more information on our interest rate swaps, see Note 9, “Financial Instruments”, to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.As of January 31, 2018, we maintain a senior unsecured committed revolving credit facility with aggregate lending commitments of $4.0 billion, which will be available until April 2, 2019 and is primarily to support the issuance of commercial paper. Funds borrowed under this revolving credit facility may also be used for general corporate purposes. As of January 31, 2018 we had $966 billion of commercial paper outstanding.We increased our issuance authorization under our commercial paper program from $4.0 billion to $6.0 billion in November 2017. While we do not have any rating downgrade triggers that would accelerate the maturity of a material amount of our debt, previous downgrades have increased the cost of borrowing under our credit facilities, have reduced market capacity for our commercial paper and have required the posting of additional collateral under some of our derivative contracts. In addition, any further downgrade to our credit ratings by any rating agencies may further impact us in a similar manner, and, depending on the extent of any such downgrade, could have a negative impact on our liquidity and capital position. We can access alternative sources of funding, including drawdowns under our credit facilities, if necessary, to offset potential reductions in the market capacity for our commercial paper.CONTRACTUAL AND OTHER OBLIGATIONSRetirement and Post-Retirement Benefit Plan ContributionsAs of January 31, 2018, we anticipate making contributions for the remainder of fiscal year 2018 of approximately $13 million to our non-U.S. pension plans, $23 million to cover benefit payments to U.S. non-qualified pension plan participants and $6 million to cover benefit claims for our post-retirement benefit plans. Our policy is to fund our pension plans so that we meet at least the minimum contribution requirements, as established by local government, funding and taxing authorities. For more information on our retirement and post-retirement benefit plans, see Note 4, “Retirement and Post-Retirement Benefit Plans”, to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.Cost Savings PlanWe expect to make future cash payments of approximately $190 million in connection with our cost savings plans through fiscal year 2019. We are unable to make a reasonable estimate as to when cash settlement with the tax authorities might occur due to the uncertainties related to these tax matters. Payments of these obligations would result from settlements with taxing authorities. For more information on our uncertain tax positions, see Note 6, “Taxes on Earnings”, to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.Payment of one-time transition taxes under the TCJAThe TCJA made significant changes to U.S. tax law resulting in a one-time gross transition tax on accumulated foreign earnings of $3.2 billion. We expect the actual cash payments for the tax to be much lower as we expect to reduce the overall liability by more than half once existing and future credits and other balance sheet attributes are used.. OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTSAs part of our ongoing business, we have not participated in transactions that generate material relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes.We have third-party short-term financing arrangements intended to facilitate the working capital requirements of certain customers. For more information on our third-party short-term financing arrangements, see Note 7, “Supplementary Financial Information”, to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.50Table of Contents Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.For quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk affecting HP, see “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” in Item 7A of Part II of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2017, which is incorporated herein by reference. Our exposure to market risk has not changed materially since October 31, 2017.Item 4. Based on that evaluation, our principal executive officer and principal financial officer concluded that there has not been any change in our internal control over financial reporting during that quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.51Table of Contents PART II. OTHER INFORMATIONItem 1. Legal Proceedings.Information with respect to this item may be found in Note 13, “Litigation and Contingencies” to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.Item 1A. Risk Factors.Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described in Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2017, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of our common and capital stock. Other than the risk factor set forth below, there have been no material changes in our risk factors since our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2017.If we cannot continue to produce quality products and services, our reputation, business and financial performance may suffer.In the course of conducting our business, we must address quality and security issues associated with our products and services, including defects in our engineering, design and manufacturing processes, unsatisfactory performance under service contracts, and unsatisfactory performance or malicious acts by third-party contractors or subcontractors or their employees. Our business is also exposed to the risk of defects in third-party components included in our products, including security vulnerabilities, as illustrated by the recent “Spectre” and “Meltdown” side-channel exploit threats. In order to address quality and security issues, we work extensively with our customers and suppliers and engage in product testing to determine the causes of problems and to develop and implement effective solutions. However, the products and services that we offer are complex, and our regular testing and quality control efforts may not be completely effective in controlling or detecting all quality and security issues or errors, particularly with respect to defects or security vulnerabilities in components manufactured by third parties. If we are unable to determine the cause or find an effective solution to address quality and security issues with our products, we may delay shipment to customers, which would delay revenue recognition and receipt of customer payments and could adversely affect our net revenue, cash flows and profitability. In addition, after products are delivered, quality and security issues may require us to repair or replace such products. Addressing quality and security issues can be expensive and may result in additional warranty, repair, replacement and other costs, adversely affecting our financial performance. In the event of security vulnerabilities or other issues with third party components, we may have to rely on third parties to provide mitigation techniques such as firmware updates. Furthermore, mitigation techniques for vulnerabilities in third-party components may be ineffective or may result in adverse performance, system instability and data loss or corruption. If new or existing customers have difficulty operating our products or are dissatisfied with our services, our results of operations could be adversely affected, and we could face possible claims if we fail to meet our customers’ expectations. In addition, quality and security issues, including those resulting from defects or security vulnerabilities in third-party components, can impair our relationships with new or existing customers and adversely affect our brand and reputation, which could, in turn, adversely affect our results of operations.Item 2. This program, which does not have a specific expiration date, authorizes repurchases in the open market or in private transactions. All share repurchases settled in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018 were open market transactions. As of January 31, 2018, HP had approximately $2.0 billion remaining under the share repurchase authorizations.Item 3. Defaults Upon Senior Securities.None.Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures.Not applicable.Item 5. Other Information.Not applicable.Item 6. Exhibits.The Exhibit Index beginning on page 52 of this report sets forth a list of exhibits.53Table of Contents SIGNATUREPursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.