See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company,” and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. Refer to note 2, “Accounting Changes”. The financial statements and footnotes are unaudited. In the opinion of the company’s management, these statements include all adjustments, which are only of a normal recurring nature, necessary to present a fair statement of the company’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows. These estimates are based on management’s best knowledge of current events, historical experience, actions that the company may undertake in the future and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. As a result, actual results may be different from these estimates. For a discussion of significant estimates and judgments made in recognizing revenue under the revenue standard effective January 1, 2018, see note 3, “Revenue Recognition”. Also, refer to the company’s 2017 Annual Report on pages 70 to 73, for a discussion of the company’s critical accounting estimates. Interim results are not necessarily indicative of financial results for a full year. The information included in this Form 10-Q should be read in conjunction with the company’s 2017 Annual Report. Within the financial statements and tables presented, certain columns and rows may not add due to the use of rounded numbers for disclosure purposes. Percentages presented are calculated from the underlying whole-dollar amounts. Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. This is annotated where applicable. 2. Certain types of implementation costs should be capitalized and amortized over the term of the hosting arrangement. The guidance is effective January 1, 2020 and early adoption is permitted. The company will adopt the guidance on January 1, 2019 on a prospective basis, and does not expect the guidance to have a material impact on the consolidated financial results. In August 2018, the FASB issued guidance which changes the disclosure requirements for fair value measurements and defined benefit plans. The guidance is effective for each of the topics on January 1, 2020 and January 1, 2021, respectively, with early adoption of certain provisions permitted. The company is evaluating the adoption date for the remaining changes. As the guidance is a change to disclosures only, the company does not expect the guidance to have a material impact on the consolidated financial results. In June 2016, the FASB issued guidance for credit impairment based on an expected loss model rather than an incurred loss model. The guidance requires the consideration of all available relevant information when estimating expected credit losses, including past events, current conditions and forecasts and their implications for expected credit losses. A cross-functional team has been established that is evaluating the financial instruments portfolio and system, process and policy change requirements. The new guidance expands the scope of financial instruments subject to impairment, including off-balance sheet commitments and residual value. The guidance is effective January 1, 2020 with one-year early adoption permitted and the company is continuing to evaluate the impact of the new guidance and adoption date. The FASB issued guidance in February 2016, with amendments in 2018, which changes the accounting for leases. The guidance requires lessees to recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for most leases in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. The guidance makes some changes to lessor accounting, including the elimination of the use of third-party residual value guarantee insurance in the lease classification test, and overall aligns with the new revenue recognition guidance. The guidance also requires qualitative and quantitative disclosures to assess the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases. The guidance is effective January 1, 2019 and early adoption is permitted. The company expects to elect the package of practical expedients not to reassess prior conclusions related to contracts containing leases, lease classification and initial direct costs and the lessee practical expedient to combine lease and nonlease components for all asset classes. The company will make a policy election to not recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for short-term leases for all asset classes. The other practical expedients available under the guidance are being evaluated. A cross-functional implementation team is evaluating the lease portfolio, system, process, control and policy change requirements. The company has made significant progress in these areas as well as in gathering the necessary data elements for the lease population. A system provider has been selected, with system configuration, testing and implementation underway. The company continues to evaluate the impact of the new guidance on its consolidated financial results and expects it will have a material impact on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. As a lessee, the company’s operating lease commitments were $6.6 billion at December 31, 2017. From a lessor perspective, due to changes in lease termination guidance, when equipment is returned to the company prior to the end of the lease term, the carrying amounts of lease receivables, which remain outstanding relating to that equipment and still expected to be collected, will be reclassified to loan receivables. The amount that would have been reclassified from lease receivables to loan receivables in 2017, under the application of this new guidance, would have been approximately $450 million. Additionally, the company does not expect the removal of third-party residual value guarantee insurance in the lease classification test to have a material impact on the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. The company continues to assess the potential impacts of the guidance, including changes to the guidance expected to be issued by the FASB, normal and ongoing business dynamics or potential changes in contracting terms, and as a result, preliminary conclusions are subject to change. The guidance is effective January 1, 2019 with early adoption permitted, and can be applied either in the period of adoption or retrospectively to all applicable periods. The company adopted the guidance effective January 1, 2018, and elected not to reclassify prior periods. This guidance allows for the reclassification of stranded tax effects as a result of the change in tax rates from U.S. tax reform to be recorded upon adoption of the guidance rather than at an actual cessation date. At adoption on January 1, 2018, $2,420 million was reclassified from AOCI to retained earnings, primarily comprised of amounts relating to retirement-related benefit plans. In August 2017, the FASB issued guidance to simplify the application of hedge accounting in certain areas, better portray the economic results of an entity’s risk management activities in its financial statements and make targeted improvements to presentation and disclosure requirements. The guidance is effective January 1, 2019 with early adoption permitted. The company adopted the guidance as of January 1, 2018, and it did not have a material impact in the consolidated financial results. Under the guidance, the service cost component of net benefit cost continues to be presented within cost, selling, general and administrative expense and research, development and engineering expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings, unless eligible for capitalization. The guidance was effective January 1, 2018 with early adoption permitted. The company adopted the guidance as of the effective date. The guidance is primarily a change in financial statement presentation and did not have a material impact in the consolidated financial results. This presentation change was applied retrospectively upon adoption. Refer to note 9, “Retirement-Related Benefits,” for additional information. The guidance was effective January 1, 2018 and early adoption was not permitted except for limited provisions. The company adopted the guidance on the effective date. Certain equity investments are now measured at fair value with changes recognized in net income. The amendment also simplified the impairment test of equity investments that lack readily determinable fair value. The guidance did not have a material impact in the consolidated financial results. The FASB issued guidance on the recognition of revenue from contracts with customers in May 2014 with amendments in 2015 and 2016. Revenue recognition depicts the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The guidance also requires specific disclosures relating to revenue recognition. The company adopted the guidance effective January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective transition method. At adoption, $557 million was reclassified from notes and accounts receivable-trade and deferred income-current to prepaid expenses and other current assets to establish the opening balance for net contract assets. In-scope sales commission costs previously recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings were capitalized in deferred costs in accordance with the transition guidance, in the amount of $737 million. Deferred income of $29 million was recorded for certain software licenses that will be recognized over time versus at a point in time under previous guidance. Additionally, net deferred taxes were reduced by $184 million in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, resulting in a cumulative-effect net increase to retained earnings of $524 million. The guidance did not have a material impact in the company’s consolidated financial results for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018. The company expects revenue recognition for its broad portfolio of hardware, software, and services offerings to remain largely unchanged. Refer to note 3, “Revenue Recognition,” for additional information, including further discussion on the impact of adoption and changes in accounting policies relating to revenue recognition. In January 2017, the FASB issued guidance which clarifies the definition of a business. The guidance provides a more robust framework to use in determining when a set of assets and activities acquired or sold is a business. The guidance was effective January 1, 2018 and early adoption was permitted. The company adopted the guidance effective January 1, 2017, and it did not have a material impact in the consolidated financial results. In October 2016, the FASB issued guidance which requires an entity to recognize the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets, other than inventory, at the time of transfer. Assets within the scope of the guidance include intellectual property and property, plant and equipment. The guidance was effective January 1, 2018 and early adoption was permitted. The company adopted the guidance on January 1, 2017 using the required modified retrospective method. At adoption, $95 million and $47 million were reclassified from investments and sundry assets and prepaid expenses and other current assets, respectively into retained earnings. Additionally, net deferred taxes of $244 million were established in deferred taxes in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, resulting in a cumulative-effect net increase to retained earnings of $102 million. In January 2017, the company had one transaction that generated a $582 million benefit to income tax expense, income from continuing operations and net income and a benefit to both basic and diluted earnings per share of $0.62 per share for the nine months ended September 30, 2017. No transactions impacted the consolidated financial results for the nine months ended September 30, 2018. The ongoing impact of this guidance will be dependent on any transaction that is within its scope. In March 2016, the FASB issued guidance which changes the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including the income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities and classification in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. The guidance was effective and adopted by the company on January 1, 2017, and it did not have a material impact in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. The ongoing impact of the guidance could result in increased volatility in the provision for income taxes and earnings per share in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings, depending on the company’s share price at exercise or vesting of share-based awards compared to grant date, however these impacts are not expected to be material. These impacts are recorded on a prospective basis. The company continues to estimate forfeitures in conjunction with measuring stock-based compensation cost. The guidance also requires cash payments on behalf of employees for shares directly withheld for taxes to be presented as financing outflows in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. The FASB also issued guidance in May 2017 and June 2018, which relates to the accounting for modifications of share-based payment awards and accounting for share-based payments issued to non-employees, respectively. The company adopted the guidance for modifications in the second quarter of 2017, and guidance for non-employees’ payments in the second quarter of 2018. The guidance had no impact in the consolidated financial results. This method was applied to contracts that were not complete as of the date of initial application. Refer to note A, “Significant Accounting Policies,” in the company’s 2017 Annual Report for the policies in effect for revenue and cost prior to January 1, 2018 and for all other significant accounting policies. The impact related to adopting the new standard was not material. For further information regarding the adoption of the new standard, see note 2, “Accounting Changes”. Revenue is recognized when, or as, control of a promised product or service transfers to a client, in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the company expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring those products or services. If the consideration promised in a contract includes a variable amount, the company estimates the amount to which it expects to be entitled using either the expected value or most likely amount method. The company’s contracts may include terms that could cause variability in the transaction price, including, for example, rebates, volume discounts, service-level penalties, and performance bonuses or other forms of contingent revenue. The company only includes estimated amounts in the transaction price to the extent it is probable that a significant reversal of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is resolved. The company may not be able to reliably estimate contingent revenue in certain long-term arrangements due to uncertainties that are not expected to be resolved for a long period of time or when the company’s experience with similar types of contracts is limited. The company’s arrangements infrequently include contingent revenue. Changes in estimates of variable consideration are included in the disclosure on pages 20 and 21. The company’s standard billing terms are that payment is due upon receipt of invoice, payable within 30 days. Additionally, in determining the transaction price, the company adjusts the promised amount of consideration for the effects of the time value of money if the billing terms are not standard and the timing of payments agreed to by the parties to the contract provide the client or the company with a significant benefit of financing, in which case the contract contains a significant financing component. As a practical expedient, the company does not account for significant financing components if the period between when the company transfers the promised product or service to the client and when the client pays for that product or service will be one year or less. Most arrangements that contain a financing component are financed through the company’s Global Financing business and include explicit financing terms. The company may include subcontractor services or third-party vendor equipment or software in certain integrated services arrangements. In these types of arrangements, revenue from sales of third-party vendor products or services is recorded net of costs when the company is acting as an agent between the client and the vendor, and gross when the company is the principal for the transaction. To determine whether the company is an agent or principal, the company considers whether it obtains control of the products or services before they are transferred to the customer. In making this evaluation, several factors are considered, most notably whether the company has primary responsibility for fulfillment to the client, as well as inventory risk and pricing discretion. The company reports revenue net of any revenue-based taxes assessed by governmental authorities that are imposed on and concurrent with specific revenue-producing transactions. In addition to the aforementioned general policies, the following are the specific revenue recognition policies for arrangements with multiple performance obligations and for each major category of revenue. The company enters into revenue arrangements that may consist of any combination of these products and services based on the needs of its clients. For example, a client may purchase a server that includes operating system software. In addition, the arrangement may include post-contract support for the software and a contract for post-warranty maintenance service for the hardware. These types of arrangements may also include financing provided by the company. These arrangements consist of multiple products and services, whereby the hardware and software may be delivered in one period and the software support and hardware maintenance services are delivered over time. The services delivered on the cloud are provided on a continuous basis across multiple reporting periods, and the hardware and software products are provided in each period the products are purchased. The company continues to build new products and offerings and continuously reinvent its platforms and delivery methods, including through the use of cloud and as-a-Service models. These are not separate businesses; they are offerings across the segments that address market opportunities in analytics, data, cloud and security. To the extent that a product or service in multiple performance obligation arrangements is subject to other specific accounting guidance, such as leasing guidance, that product or service is accounted for in accordance with such specific guidance. For all other products or services in these arrangements, the criteria below are considered to determine when the products or services are distinct and how to allocate the arrangement consideration to each distinct performance obligation. A performance obligation is a promise in a contract with a client to transfer products or services that are distinct. If the company enters into two or more contracts at or near the same time, the contracts may be combined and accounted for as one contract, in which case the company determines whether the products or services in the combined contract are distinct. If these criteria are not met, the company determines an appropriate measure of progress based on the nature of its overall promise for the single performance obligation. When products and services are distinct, the arrangement consideration is allocated to each performance obligation on a relative standalone selling price basis. The company recognizes revenue when those future products or services are transferred or when the option expires. Many of these services can be delivered entirely or partially through cloud or as-a-Service delivery models. The company’s services are provided on a time-and-material basis, as a fixed-price contract or as a fixed-price per measure of output contract and the contract terms range from less than one year to over 10 years. In services arrangements, the company typically satisfies the performance obligation and recognizes revenue over time. In most other services arrangements, the performance obligation is satisfied over time because the client simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits provided as the company performs the services. In outsourcing, other managed services, application management, GPS and other cloud-based services arrangements, the company determines whether the services performed during the initial phases of the arrangement, such as setup activities, are distinct. As a result, revenue is generally recognized over the period the services are provided on a usage basis. This results in revenue recognition that corresponds with the value to the client of the services transferred to date relative to the remaining services promised. If the as-a-Service contract includes setup activities, those promises in the arrangement are evaluated to determine if they are distinct. Revenue related to maintenance and support services and extended warranty is recognized on a straight-line basis over the period of performance because the company is standing ready to provide services. Revenue is recognized based on the labor costs incurred to date as a percentage of the total estimated labor costs to fulfill the contract. Due to the nature of the work performed in these arrangements, the estimation of cost at completion is complex, subject to many variables and requires significant judgment. Key factors reviewed by the company to estimate costs to complete each contract are future labor and product costs and expected productivity efficiencies. If circumstances arise that change the original estimates of revenues, costs, or extent of progress toward completion, revisions to the estimates are made. These revisions may result in increases or decreases in estimated revenues or costs, and such revisions are reflected in revenue on a cumulative catch-up basis in the period in which the circumstances that gave rise to the revision become known by the company. The company performs ongoing profitability analyses of its design and build services contracts accounted for using a cost-to-cost measure of progress in order to determine whether the latest estimates of revenues, costs and profits require updating. If at any time these estimates indicate that the contract will be unprofitable, the entire estimated loss for the remainder of the contract is recorded immediately. For other types of services contracts, any losses are recorded as incurred. In some services contracts, the company bills the client prior to recognizing revenue from performing the services. In other services contracts, the company performs the services prior to billing the client. When the company performs services prior to billing the client in design and build contracts, the right to consideration is typically subject to milestone completion or client acceptance and the unbilled accounts receivable is classified as a contract asset. Refer to page 85 of the company’s 2017 Annual Report for the amount of deferred income and unbilled accounts receivable at December 31, 2017 and 2016. Billings usually occur in the month after the company performs the services or in accordance with specific contractual provisions. These products can also be delivered through as-a-Service or cloud delivery models, such as Storage-as-a-Service. The company also offers installation services for its more complex hardware products. Hardware offerings are often sold with distinct maintenance services, described under the Services section above. Revenue from hardware sales is recognized when control has transferred to the customer which typically occurs when the hardware has been shipped to the client, risk of loss has transferred to the client and the company has a present right to payment for the hardware. Revenue from hardware sales-type leases is recognized at the beginning of the lease term. Revenue from rentals and operating leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the rental or lease. Revenue from as-a-Service arrangements is recognized either on a straight-line basis or on a usage basis as described in the Services section above. Installation services are accounted for as distinct performance obligations with revenue recognized as the services are performed. Any cost of standard warranties is accrued when the corresponding revenue is recognized. Shipping and handling activities that occur after the client has obtained control of a product are accounted for as an activity to fulfill the promise to transfer the product rather than as an additional promised service and, therefore, no revenue is deferred and recognized over the shipping period. Many of these offerings can be delivered entirely or partially through as-a-Service or cloud delivery models, while others are delivered as on-premise software licenses. In limited circumstances, when the software requires continuous updates to provide the intended functionality, the software license and post-contract support are not distinct and revenue for the single performance obligation is recognized over time as the post-contract support is provided. This is only applicable to certain security software perpetual licenses offered by the company. Prior to the adoption of the new revenue standard, the company recognized revenue for these software licenses at a point in time at the inception of the arrangement. This change did not have a material impact on the company’s financial statements. Revenue from post-contract support is recognized over the contract term on a straight-line basis because the company is providing a service of standing ready to provide support, when-and-if needed, and is providing unspecified software upgrades on a when-and-if available basis over the contract term. Revenue from software hosting or Software-as-a-Service arrangements is recognized either on a straight-line basis or on a usage basis as described in the Services section above. In arrangements that include a software license, the associated revenue is recognized in accordance with the software license recognition policy above rather than over time as a service. However, if the amount of consideration to be paid in exchange for the license depends on client usage, revenue is recognized when the usage occurs. Operating lease income is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. In most cases, the company is able to establish SSP based on the observable prices of products or services sold separately in comparable circumstances to similar clients. The company typically establishes a standalone selling price range for its products and services which are reassessed on a periodic basis or when facts and circumstances change. In certain instances, the company may not be able to establish a standalone selling price range based on observable prices and the company estimates the standalone selling price. Additionally, in certain circumstances, the company may estimate SSP for a product or service by applying the residual approach. This approach has been most commonly used when certain perpetual software licenses are only sold bundled with one year of post-contract support and a price has not been established for the software. Estimating SSP is a formal process that includes review and approval by the company’s management. Capitalized costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over the expected period of benefit, which includes anticipated contract renewals or extensions, consistent with the transfer to the client of the services to which the asset relates. Additionally, fixed assets associated with these contracts are capitalized and depreciated on a straight-line basis over the expected useful life of the asset. If an asset is contract specific, then the depreciation period is the shorter of the useful life of the asset or the contract term. Amounts paid to clients in excess of the fair value of acquired assets used in outsourcing arrangements are deferred and amortized on a straight-line basis as a reduction of revenue over the expected period of benefit. The company performs periodic reviews to assess the recoverability of deferred contract transition and setup costs. This review is done by comparing the carrying amount of the asset to the remaining amount of consideration the company expects to receive for the services to which the asset relates, less the costs that relate directly to providing those services that have not yet been recognized. If the carrying amount is deemed not recoverable, an impairment loss is recognized. In situations in which an outsourcing contract is terminated, the terms of the contract may require the client to reimburse the company for the recovery of unbilled accounts receivable, unamortized deferred costs incurred to purchase specific assets utilized in the delivery of services and to pay any additional costs incurred by the company to transition the services. Recurring operating costs in these contracts are recognized as incurred. The company previously expensed these costs as incurred. The expected customer relationship is determined based on the average customer relationship period, including expected renewals, for each offering type and ranges from three to six years. Expected renewal periods are only included in the expected customer relationship period if commission amounts paid upon renewal are not commensurate with amounts paid on the initial contract. Incremental costs of obtaining a contract include only those costs the company incurs to obtain a contract that it would not have incurred if the contract had not been obtained. The company has determined that certain commissions programs meet the requirements to be capitalized. Some commission programs are not subject to capitalization as the commission expense is paid and recognized as the related revenue is recognized. Additionally, as a practical expedient, the company expenses costs to obtain a contract as incurred if the amortization period would have been a year or less. These costs are included in selling, general and administrative expenses. Estimated costs for standard warranty terms are recognized when revenue is recorded for the related product. Estimated future costs for warranties applicable to revenue recognized in the current period are charged to cost of sales. The warranty liability is reviewed quarterly to verify that it properly reflects the remaining obligation based on the anticipated expenditures over the balance of the obligation period. Adjustments are made when actual warranty claim experience differs from estimates. Costs from fixed-price support or maintenance contracts, including extended warranty contracts, are recognized as incurred. Revenue from extended warranty contracts is initially recorded as deferred income and subsequently recognized on a straight-line basis over the delivery period because the company is providing a service of standing ready to provide services over such term. A receivable is a right to consideration that is unconditional as compared to a contract asset which is a right to consideration that is conditional upon factors other than the passage of time. The majority of the company’s contract assets represent unbilled amounts related to design and build services contracts when the cost-to-cost method of revenue recognition is utilized, revenue recognized exceeds the amount billed to the client, and the right to consideration is subject to milestone completion or client acceptance. At January 1, 2018 and September 30, 2018 contract assets of $557 million and $510 million, respectively, are included in prepaid expenses and other current assets in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. At December 31, 2017, these assets were classified as notes and accounts receivable-trade in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. An allowance for contract assets, if needed, and uncollectible trade receivables is estimated based on a combination of write-off history, aging analysis and any specific, known troubled accounts. It is intended to be a statement of overall work under contract that has not yet been performed and does not include contracts in which the customer is not committed, such as certain as-a-Service, governmental, term software license and services offerings. The customer is not considered committed when they are able to terminate for convenience without payment of a substantive penalty. The disclosure includes estimates of variable consideration, except when the variable consideration is a sales-based or usage-based royalty promised in exchange for a license of intellectual property. Additionally, as a practical expedient, the company does not include contracts that have an original duration of one year or less. Remaining performance obligation estimates are subject to change and are affected by several factors, including terminations, changes in the scope of contracts, periodic revalidations, adjustment for revenue that has not materialized and adjustments for currency. At September 30, 2018, the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to RPO related to customer contracts that are unsatisfied or partially unsatisfied was $119 billion. Refer to pages 14 and 15 for additional information on percentage-of-completion contracts and estimates of costs to complete. The amount of revenue recognized during the three months ended September 30, 2018 that was included within the deferred income balance at July 1, 2018 was $3.8 billion and primarily relates to services and software. The amount of revenue recognized during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 that was included within the deferred income balance at January 1, 2018 was $8.0 billion and primarily relates to services and software. Prior to January 1, 2018, the current and noncurrent balance of deferred costs were included within prepaid expenses and other current assets and investments and sundry assets, respectively. On January 1, 2018, in accordance with the transition guidance, $737 million of in-scope sales commissions that were previously recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings were capitalized as costs to obtain a contract. The amount of total deferred costs amortized during the quarter ended September 30, 2018 was $929 million. There were no material impairment losses incurred during the period. Refer to page 17 for additional information on deferred costs to fulfill a contract and capitalized costs of obtaining a contract. The following tables summarize the impacts as of and for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018. The impacts to adjust to prior GAAP are primarily the result of the transition adjustments recorded at adoption. Current period impacts were not material. Refer to note 2, “Accounting Changes,” for additional information on the transition adjustments. The guidance requires the use of observable market data if such data is available without undue cost and effort. When available, the company uses unadjusted quoted market prices in active markets to measure the fair value and classifies such items as Level 1. If quoted market prices are not available, fair value is based upon internally developed models that use current market-based or independently sourced market parameters such as interest rates and currency rates. Items valued using internally generated models are classified according to the lowest level input or value driver that is significant to the valuation. The determination of fair value considers various factors including interest rate yield curves and time value underlying the financial instruments. For derivatives and debt securities, the company uses a discounted cash flow analysis using discount rates commensurate with the duration of the instrument. The methodology is consistent with that applied in developing counterparty credit risk adjustments, but incorporates the company’s own credit risk as observed in the credit default swap market. As an example, the fair value of derivatives is derived utilizing a discounted cash flow model that uses observable market inputs such as known notional value amounts, yield curves, spot and forward exchange rates as well as discount rates. These inputs relate to liquid, heavily traded currencies with active markets which are available for the full term of the derivative. Certain assets that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis can be subject to nonrecurring fair value measurements. These assets include available-for-sale debt securities that are deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired. In the event of an other-than-temporary impairment of a debt security, fair value is measured using a model described above. The impairment models used for nonfinancial assets depend on the type of asset. There were no material impairments of non-financial assets for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Accounting guidance permits the measurement of eligible financial assets, financial liabilities and firm commitments at fair value, on an instrument-by-instrument basis, that are otherwise not permitted to be accounted for at fair value under other accounting standards. This election is irrevocable. The company has not applied the fair value option to any eligible assets or liabilities. Effective January 1, 2018, the company adopted the new FASB guidance on recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of financial instruments using the cumulative catch-up transition method. Under the new standard, the company measures equity investments at fair value with changes recognized in net income. Based on the method of adoption, prior year information has not been updated to conform with the new guidance. Refer to note 2, “Accounting Changes,” for further information. The following tables present the company’s financial assets and financial liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017. If measured at fair value in the financial statements, these financial instruments would be classified as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy, except for short-term debt, which would be classified as Level 2. At September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the difference between the carrying amount and estimated fair value for loans and long-term receivables was immaterial. If measured at fair value in the financial statements, these financial instruments would be classified as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy. For other long-term debt for which a quoted market price is not available, an expected present value technique that uses rates currently available to the company for debt with similar terms and remaining maturities is used to estimate fair value. The carrying amount of long-term debt was $35,989 million and $39,837 million, and the estimated fair value was $37,636 million and $42,264 million at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. The contractual maturities of substantially all available-for-sale debt securities are less than one year at September 30, 2018. In the normal course of business, the company is exposed to the impact of interest rate changes and foreign currency fluctuations, and to a lesser extent equity and commodity price changes and client credit risk. The company limits these risks by following established risk management policies and procedures, including the use of derivatives, and, where cost effective, financing with debt in the currencies in which assets are denominated. For interest rate exposures, derivatives are used to better align rate movements between the interest rates associated with the company’s lease and other financial assets and the interest rates associated with its financing debt. Derivatives are also used to manage the related cost of debt. For foreign currency exposures, derivatives are used to better manage the cash flow volatility arising from foreign exchange rate fluctuations. As a result of the use of derivative instruments, the company is exposed to the risk that counterparties to derivative contracts will fail to meet their contractual obligations. To mitigate the counterparty credit risk, the company has a policy of only entering into contracts with carefully selected major financial institutions based upon their overall credit profile. The company’s established policies and procedures for mitigating credit risk on principal transactions include reviewing and establishing limits for credit exposure and continually assessing the creditworthiness of counterparties. The right of set-off that exists under certain of these arrangements enables the legal entities of the company subject to the arrangement to net amounts due to and from the counterparty reducing the maximum loss from credit risk in the event of counterparty default. The company is also a party to collateral security arrangements with most of its major derivative counterparties. Posting thresholds can be fixed or can vary based on credit default swap pricing or credit ratings received from the major credit agencies. The aggregate fair value of all derivative instruments under these collateralized arrangements that were in a liability position at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017 was $120 million and $126 million, respectively, for which no collateral was posted at either date. Full collateralization of these agreements would be required in the event that the company’s credit rating falls below investment grade or if its credit default swap spread exceeds 250 basis points, as applicable, pursuant to the terms of the collateral security arrangements. The aggregate fair value of derivative instruments in asset positions at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017 was $694 million and $942 million, respectively. This amount represents the maximum exposure to loss at the reporting date if the counterparties failed to perform as contracted. This exposure was reduced by $285 million and $255 million at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, of liabilities included in master netting arrangements with those counterparties. Additionally, at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, this exposure was reduced by $11 million and $114 million of cash collateral, respectively. There were no non-cash collateral balances in U.S. Treasury securities at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017. At September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the net exposure related to derivative assets recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position was $398 million and $572 million, respectively. At September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the net position related to derivative liabilities recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position was $130 million and $160 million, respectively. In the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, the company does not offset derivative assets against liabilities in master netting arrangements nor does it offset receivables or payables recognized upon payment or receipt of cash collateral against the fair values of the related derivative instruments. No amount was recognized in other receivables at September 30, 2018 or December 31, 2017 for the right to reclaim cash collateral. The amount recognized in accounts payable for the obligation to return cash collateral was $11 million and $114 million at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. The company restricts the use of cash collateral received to rehypothecation, and therefore reports it in restricted cash in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. No amount was rehypothecated at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017. These instruments, designated as net investment hedges, expose the company to liquidity risk as the derivatives have an immediate cash flow impact upon maturity which is not offset by a cash flow from the translation of the underlying hedged equity. The company monitors this cash loss potential on an ongoing basis and may discontinue some of these hedging relationships by de-designating or terminating the derivative instrument in order to manage the liquidity risk. Although not designated as accounting hedges, the company may utilize derivatives to offset the changes in the fair value of the de-designated instruments from the date of de-designation until maturity. In its hedging programs, the company uses forward contracts, futures contracts, interest-rate swaps, cross-currency swaps, and options depending upon the underlying exposure. The company is not a party to leveraged derivative instruments. A brief description of the major hedging programs, categorized by underlying risk, follows. Access to cost-effective financing can result in interest rate mismatches with the underlying assets. At September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the total notional amount of the company’s interest rate swaps was $9.9 billion and $9.1 billion, respectively. The weighted-average remaining maturity of these instruments at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017 was approximately 4.3 years and 4.8 years, respectively. These interest-rate contracts were accounted for as fair value hedges. The company did not have any cash flow hedges relating to this program outstanding at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017. To manage this risk, the company may use forward starting interest-rate swaps to lock in the rate on the interest payments related to the forecasted debt issuance. These swaps are accounted for as cash flow hedges. The company did not have any derivative instruments relating to this program outstanding at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017. The company also uses cross-currency swaps and foreign exchange forward contracts for this risk management purpose. At September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the total notional amount of derivative instruments designated as net investment hedges was $6.4 billion and $7.0 billion, respectively. At September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the weighted-average remaining maturity of these instruments was approximately 0.2 years at both periods. In anticipation of these foreign currency cash flows and in view of the volatility of the currency markets, the company selectively employs foreign exchange forward contracts to manage its currency risk. These forward contracts are accounted for as cash flow hedges. The maximum length of time over which the company has hedged its exposure to the variability in future cash flows is four years. At September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the total notional amount of forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges of forecasted royalty and cost transactions was $9.2 billion and $7.8 billion, respectively. The weighted-average remaining maturity of these instruments at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017 was 0.7 years at both periods. To manage this risk, the company employs cross-currency swaps to convert fixed-rate foreign currency denominated debt to fixed-rate debt denominated in the functional currency of the borrowing entity. These swaps are accounted for as cash flow hedges. The maximum length of time over which the company has hedged its exposure to the variability in future cash flows is approximately ten years. At September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the total notional amount of cross-currency swaps designated as cash flow hedges of foreign currency denominated debt was $6.5 billion at both periods. These centers principally use currency swaps to convert cash flows in a cost-effective manner. In addition, the company uses foreign exchange forward contracts to economically hedge, on a net basis, the foreign currency exposure of a portion of the company’s nonfunctional currency assets and liabilities. The terms of these forward and swap contracts are generally less than one year. At September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the total notional amount of derivative instruments in economic hedges of foreign currency exposure was $7.6 billion and $11.5 billion, respectively. Although not designated as accounting hedges, the company utilizes derivatives, including equity swaps and futures, to economically hedge the exposures related to its employee compensation obligations. At September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the total notional amount of derivative instruments in economic hedges of these compensation obligations was $1.3 billion at both periods. The company did not have any warrants qualifying as derivatives outstanding at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017. The company is exposed to a potential loss if a client fails to pay amounts due under contractual terms. The company may utilize credit default swaps to economically hedge its credit exposures. The company did not have any derivative instruments relating to this program outstanding at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017. The company is exposed to market volatility on certain investment securities. The company may utilize options or forwards to economically hedge its market exposure. At September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the company did not have any derivative instruments relating to this program outstanding. The following tables provide a quantitative summary of the derivative and non-derivative instrument-related risk management activity at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, as well as for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Refer to note 2, “Accounting Changes,” for further information. Refer to note 2, “Accounting Changes,” for further information. Investment in sales-type and direct financing leases relates principally to the company’s systems products and are for terms ranging generally from two to six years. Commercial financing receivables relate primarily to inventory and accounts receivable financing for dealers and remarketers of IBM and OEM products. Payment terms for inventory and accounts receivable financing generally range from 30 to 90 days. Payment terms on these financing arrangements are generally for terms up to seven years. Client loans and installment payment financing contracts are priced independently at competitive market rates. Financing receivables pledged as collateral for borrowings were $754 million and $773 million at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. The company did not have any financing receivables held for sale as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017. Commercial financing receivables are excluded from the presentation of financing receivables by portfolio segment, as they are short term in nature and the current estimated risk of loss and resulting impact to the company’s financing results are not material. Write-offs of lease receivables and loan receivables were $6 million and $3 million, respectively, for the nine months ended September 30, 2018. Provisions for credit losses recorded for lease receivables and loan receivables were $4 million and $17 million, respectively, for the nine months ended September 30, 2018. The average recorded investment of impaired leases and loans for Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific was $143 million, $56 million and $76 million, respectively, for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and $156 million, $31 million and $101 million, respectively, for the three months ended September 30, 2017. Both interest income recognized and interest income recognized on a cash basis on impaired leases and loans were immaterial for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017. The average recorded investment of impaired leases and loans for Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific was $136 million, $56 million and $79 million, respectively, for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and $165 million, $27 million and $131 million, respectively, for the nine months ended September 30, 2017. Both interest income recognized and interest income recognized on a cash basis on impaired leases and loans were immaterial for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017. Write-offs of lease receivables and loan receivables were $55 million and $82 million, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2017. Provisions for credit losses recorded for lease receivables and loan receivables were $9 million and $7 million, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2017. When determining the allowances, financing receivables are evaluated either on an individual or a collective basis. For individually evaluated receivables, the company determines the expected cash flow for the receivable and calculates an estimate of the potential loss and the probability of loss. For those accounts in which the loss is probable, the company records a specific reserve. The company considers any receivable with an individually evaluated reserve as an impaired receivable. In addition, the company records an unallocated reserve that is determined by applying a reserve rate to its different portfolios, excluding accounts that have been specifically reserved. The following table summarizes information about the recorded investment in lease and loan financing receivables, including recorded investments aged over 90 days and still accruing, billed invoices aged over 90 days and recorded investment not accruing. The resulting indicators are a numerical rating system that maps to Moody’s Investors Service credit ratings as shown below. The company uses information provided by Moody’s, where available, as one of many inputs in its determination of customer credit ratings. The following tables present the recorded investment net of allowance for credit losses for each class of receivables, by credit quality indicator, at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017. Receivables with a credit quality indicator ranging from Aaa to Baa3 are considered investment grade. All others are considered non-investment grade. The credit quality indicators do not reflect mitigation actions that the company takes to transfer credit risk to third parties. 6. The following table presents total stock-based compensation cost included in income from continuing operations. Pre-tax stock-based compensation cost for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 decreased $17 million compared to the corresponding period in the prior year. As of September 30, 2018, the total unrecognized compensation cost of $805 million related to non-vested awards was expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of approximately 2.5 years. There was no significant capitalized stock-based compensation cost at September 30, 2018 and 2017. Performance measurement is based on operating pre-tax income from continuing operations. Refer to note 2, “Accounting Changes”. 9. The following table provides the pre-tax cost for all retirement-related plans. On October 12, 2012, the High Court in London issued a ruling against IBM United Kingdom Limited and IBM United Kingdom Holdings Limited, both wholly-owned subsidiaries of the company, in litigation involving one of IBM UK’s defined benefit plans. This gain is reflected in “Non-US Plans - Other costs” in the tables above. In 2018, the company expects to contribute approximately $400 million to its non-U.S. defined benefit and multi-employer plans, the largest of which will be contributed to the defined benefit pension plans in the UK, Japan and Spain. This amount generally represents the legally mandated minimum contribution. Total net contributions to the non-U.S. plans in the first nine months of 2018 were $275 million, of which $117 million was in cash and $157 million in U.S. Treasury securities. Total contributions to the non-U.S. plans in the first nine months of 2017 were $301 million, of which $124 million was in cash and $176 million in U.S. Treasury securities. The contribution of U.S. Treasury securities is considered a non-cash transaction in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. The company contributed $275 million in U.S. Treasury securities to the U.S. nonpension postretirement benefit plan during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, and $259 million in U.S. Treasury securities during the nine months ended September 30, 2017. The contribution of U.S. Treasury securities is considered a non-cash transaction in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. 10. Each acquisition is expected to enhance the company’s portfolio of product and services capabilities. Armanta is a provider of aggregation and analytics software to financial institutions, enabling data aggregation across multiple systems in near real-time speed, enhancing decision-making and improving regulatory compliance. Oniqua is a global innovator in maintenance-repair-operate inventory optimization solutions and services for asset-intensive industries. All of these acquisitions were for 100 percent of the acquired businesses. The acquisitions were accounted for as business combinations using the acquisition method, and accordingly, the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest in the acquired entity were recorded at their estimated fair values at the date of acquisition. The acquisitions did not have a material impact in the Consolidated Financial Statements. The net carrying amount of intangible assets decreased $608 million during the first nine months of 2018, primarily due to intangible asset amortization, partially offset by additions resulting from capitalized software. The aggregate intangible amortization expense was $348 million and $1,031 million for the third quarter and first nine months of 2018, respectively, versus $383 million and $1,161 million for the third quarter and first nine months of 2017, respectively. In addition, in the first nine months of 2018, the company retired $612 million of fully amortized intangible assets, impacting both the gross carrying amount and accumulated amortization by this amount. There were no goodwill impairment losses recorded during the first nine months of 2018 or the full year of 2017 and the company has no accumulated impairment losses. Purchase price adjustments recorded in the first nine months of 2018 and full year 2017 were related to acquisitions that were still subject to the measurement period that ends at the earlier of 12 months from the acquisition date or when information becomes available. Net purchase price adjustments recorded during the first nine months of 2018 were not material. Net purchase price adjustments of $38 million were recorded during 2017, with the primary drivers being deferred tax assets, other taxes payable and other current liabilities associated with the Truven Health Analytics, Inc. and The Weather Company acquisitions. 12. The weighted-average interest rate for short-term loans was 8.3 percent and 8.8 percent at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. There are no debt securities issued and outstanding by IBM International Group Capital LLC, which is an indirect, 100 percent owned finance subsidiary of International Business Machines Corporation, the parent. Any debt securities issued by IBM International Group Capital LLC, would be fully and unconditionally guaranteed by the parent. In 2017, IBM Credit LLC issued fixed- and floating-rate debt securities in the aggregate amount of $3.0 billion with maturity dates ranging from 2019 to 2022. During the first quarter of 2018, IBM Credit LLC issued fixed- and floating-rate debt securities in the aggregate amount of $2.0 billion with maturity dates ranging from 2021 to 2023. This debt is included in the long-term debt table above. The credit facilities also include a covenant on the company’s consolidated net interest expense ratio, which cannot be less than 2.20 to 1.0, as well as a cross default provision with respect to other defaulted indebtedness of at least $500 million. The company is in compliance with all of its significant debt covenants and provides periodic certifications to its lenders. The failure to comply with its debt covenants could constitute an event of default with respect to the debt to which such provisions apply. If certain events of default were to occur, the principal and interest on the debt to which such event of default applied would become immediately due and payable. In addition, the company and IBM Credit LLC entered into a new $2.5 billion, 364-Day Credit Agreement, to replace the maturing $2.5 billion, 364-Day agreement, and also amended the existing $2.5 billion Three-Year Credit Agreement. The amended Five-Year and Three-Year credit agreements included a modification of terms to account for the potential discontinuation of LIBOR and to extend the maturity dates. The new maturity dates for the Five-Year and Three-Year Credit Agreements are July 20, 2023 and July 20, 2021, respectively. Each of the facility sizes remained unchanged. As of September 30, 2018, there were no borrowings by the company, or its subsidiaries, under these credit facilities. 13. The company is a leader in the information technology industry and, as such, has been and will continue to be subject to claims challenging its IP rights and associated products and offerings, including claims of copyright and patent infringement and violations of trade secrets and other IP rights. In addition, the company enforces its own IP against infringement, through license negotiations, lawsuits or otherwise. These actions may be commenced by a number of different parties, including competitors, clients, current or former employees, government and regulatory agencies, stockholders and representatives of the locations in which the company does business. Some of the actions to which the company is party may involve particularly complex technical issues, and some actions may raise novel questions under the laws of the various jurisdictions in which these matters arise. The company records a provision with respect to a claim, suit, investigation or proceeding when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. In accordance with the relevant accounting guidance, the company provides disclosures of matters for which the likelihood of material loss is at least reasonably possible. In addition, the company also discloses matters based on its consideration of other matters and qualitative factors, including the experience of other companies in the industry, and investor, customer and employee relations considerations. With respect to the remaining claims, suits, investigations and proceedings discussed in this note, except as specifically discussed herein, the company is unable to provide estimates of reasonably possible losses or range of losses, including losses in excess of amounts accrued, if any, for the following reasons. Claims, suits, investigations and proceedings are inherently uncertain, and it is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of these matters. It is the company’s experience that damage amounts claimed in litigation against it are unreliable and unrelated to possible outcomes, and as such are not meaningful indicators of the company’s potential liability. While the company will continue to defend itself vigorously, it is possible that the company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be affected in any particular period by the resolution of one or more of these matters. The following is a summary of the more significant legal matters involving the company. The company removed the case to Federal Court in Utah. On September 14, 2007, plaintiff filed for bankruptcy protection, and all proceedings in this case were stayed. The court in another suit, the SCO Group, Inc. v. Novell, Inc., held a trial in March 2010. The jury found that Novell is the owner of UNIX and UnixWare copyrights; the judge subsequently ruled that SCO is obligated to recognize Novell’s waiver of SCO’s claims against IBM and Sequent for breach of UNIX license agreements. On August 30, 2011, the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the district court’s ruling and denied SCO’s appeal of this matter. In June 2013, the Federal Court in Utah granted SCO’s motion to reopen the SCO v. IBM case. In February 2016, the Federal Court ruled in favor of IBM on all of SCO’s remaining claims, and SCO appealed. On October 30, 2017, the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the dismissal of all but one of SCO’s remaining claims, which was remanded to the Federal Court in Utah. After six weeks of trial, on July 18, 2012, the Indiana Superior Court in Marion County rejected the State’s claims in their entirety and awarded IBM $52 million plus interest and costs. On February 13, 2014, the Indiana Court of Appeals reversed portions of the trial judge’s findings, found IBM in material breach, and ordered the case remanded to the trial judge to determine the State’s damages, if any. The Indiana Court of Appeals also affirmed approximately $50 million of the trial court’s award of damages to IBM. On March 22, 2016, the Indiana Supreme Court affirmed the outcome of the Indiana Court of Appeals and remanded the case to the Indiana Superior Court. On August 7, 2017, the Indiana Superior Court awarded the State $128 million, which it then offset against IBM’s previously affirmed award of $50 million, resulting in a $78 million award to the State, plus interest. Both parties have appealed to the Indiana Supreme Court and the matter remains pending. On March 9, 2017, the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania’s Department of Labor and Industry sued IBM in Pennsylvania state court regarding a 2006 contract for the development of a custom software system to manage the Commonwealth’s unemployment insurance benefits programs. The matter is pending in a Pennsylvania court. Following the 2017 final judgment of the Appeal Court in London holding that IBM UK acted lawfully in 2010 in closing its UK defined benefit plans to future accruals for most participants and in implementing a new retirement policy, the Employment Tribunal in Southampton UK is expected to address approximately 290 individual actions alleging constructive dismissal and age discrimination brought against IBM UK in 2010 by employees who left the company at that time. The individual actions were previously stayed. Management’s Retirement Plans Committee and three current or former IBM executives are named as defendants. On September 29, 2017, the Court granted the defendants’ motion to dismiss the first amended complaint. Plaintiffs appealed to the Second Circuit Court of Appeals and the matter remains pending. In August 2015, IBM learned that the SEC was conducting an investigation relating to revenue recognition with respect to the accounting treatment of certain transactions in the U.S., UK and Ireland. The company cooperated with the SEC in this matter. In May 2018, the SEC informed IBM that based on the information to date, it closed its investigation into this matter without pursuing any enforcement action against the company. Such statutes require potentially responsible parties to participate in remediation activities regardless of fault or ownership of sites. The company is also conducting environmental investigations, assessments or remediations at or in the vicinity of several current or former operating sites globally pursuant to permits, administrative orders or agreements with country, state or local environmental agencies, and is involved in lawsuits and claims concerning certain current or former operating sites. The company is also subject to ongoing tax examinations and governmental assessments in various jurisdictions. Along with many other U.S. companies doing business in Brazil, the company is involved in various challenges with Brazilian tax authorities regarding non-income tax assessments and non-income tax litigation matters. The total potential amount related to all these matters for all applicable years is approximately $900 million. The company believes it will prevail on these matters and that this amount is not a meaningful indicator of liability. 14. A portion of these amounts was available to the company’s business partners to support their working capital needs. In addition, the company has committed to provide future financing to its clients in connection with client purchase agreements for approximately $3,798 million and $3,569 million at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. The company has applied the guidance requiring a guarantor to disclose certain types of guarantees, even if the likelihood of requiring the guarantor’s performance is remote. The following is a description of arrangements in which the company is the guarantor. The company is a party to a variety of agreements pursuant to which it may be obligated to indemnify the other party with respect to certain matters. It is not possible to predict the maximum potential amount of future payments under these or similar agreements due to the conditional nature of the company’s obligations and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Historically, payments made by the company under these agreements have not had a material effect on the company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, the company guarantees certain loans and financial commitments. The maximum potential future payment under these financial guarantees was $15 million and $19 million at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. The fair value of the guarantees recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position is not material. Changes in the company’s warranty liability for standard warranties and deferred income for extended warranty are
presented in the following tables. 15. For the nine-month period ended September 30, 2018, the company reported a provision for income taxes of $138 million and an effective tax rate of 2.0 percent. For the nine months ended September 30, 2017, the company reported a provision for income taxes of $120 million, and its effective tax rate was 1.7 percent, primarily as a result of discrete tax benefits. The company’s U.S. income tax returns for 2013 and 2014 continue to be examined by the IRS with specific focus on certain cross-border transactions in 2013. Although the IRS could propose additional adjustments, the company believes it is adequately reserved on these issues. With respect to major U.S. state and foreign taxing jurisdictions, the company is generally no longer subject to tax examinations for years prior to 2013. The company is no longer subject to income tax examination of its U.S. federal tax return for years prior to 2013. Although the outcome of tax audits is always uncertain, the company believes that adequate amounts of tax and interest have been provided for any adjustments that are expected to result for these years. The company anticipates that this audit will be completed in 2020. The amount of unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2017 decreased $892 million in the first nine months of 2018 to $6,139 million. The decrease was primarily driven by the resolution of certain tax matters in the first quarter related to the U.S. audits. The liability at September 30, 2018 of $6,139 million can be reduced by $599 million of offsetting tax benefits associated with timing adjustments, U.S. tax credits, potential transfer pricing adjustments and state income taxes. The net amount of $5,540 million, if recognized, would favorably affect the company’s effective tax rate. The company is involved in a number of income tax-related matters in India challenging tax assessments issued by the India Tax Authorities. As of September 30, 2018, the company has recorded $636 million as prepaid income taxes in India. A significant portion of this balance represents cash tax deposits paid over time to protect the company’s right to appeal various income tax assessments made by the India Tax Authorities. The company believes it will prevail on these matters. U.S. tax reform introduced many changes, including lowering the U.S. corporate tax rate to 21 percent, changes in incentives, provisions to prevent U.S. base erosion and significant changes in the taxation of international income, including provisions which allow for the repatriation of foreign earnings without U.S. tax. The enactment of U.S. tax reform resulted in the company recording a provisional tax expense charge of $5,475 million in the fourth-quarter and year-ended December 31, 2017. This charge was the result of the one-time U.S. transition tax and any foreign tax costs on undistributed foreign earnings, as well as the remeasurement of deferred tax balances to the new U.S. federal tax rate. All components of the provisional charge of $5,475 million were based on the company’s estimates as of December 31, 2017. Specifically, the transition tax, any foreign tax costs, as well as the remeasurement of deferred tax balances are provisional and were calculated based on existing tax law and the best information available as of the date of estimate. The effect of U.S. tax reform changes on deferred tax assets and liabilities was a benefit of $270 million and was included in the one-time charge. An additional provisional charge of $107 million was recorded in the first quarter as a result of IRS guidance issued in January 2018 and a benefit of $14 million was recorded in the second quarter as a result of IRS guidance issued in early April 2018. The company is still evaluating the Act’s GILTI provisions and has not yet elected an accounting policy. The company has not completed its assessment and the tax charge remains provisional as of September 30, 2018. The charge will be finalized in the fourth quarter of 2018 which is within the 12-month time limit provided by the SEC. The dividend is payable December 10, 2018 to shareholders of record on November 9, 2018. On October 30, 2018, the company announced that the Board of Directors authorized $4.0 billion in additional funds for use in the company’s stock repurchase program. The combination of Red Hat’s vast portfolio of open-source technologies, innovative cloud development platform and developer community combined with IBM’s innovative hybrid cloud technology, industry expertise and commitment to data, trust and security will bring clients the hybrid, multi-cloud capabilities they are demanding. Under the terms of the definitive agreement, Red Hat shareholders will receive $190 per share in cash. The transaction values Red Hat at approximately $34 billion. The transaction is subject to customary closing conditions, including regulatory clearance and approval by the Red Hat shareholders. In connection with the proposed transaction, IBM has entered into a commitment letter pursuant to which certain banks have committed to provide a 364-day bridge loan credit facility in an amount of $20 billion in support of the transaction. At signing, the company has ample cash, credit and bridge lines to secure the transaction financing. The company intends to close the transaction through a combination of cash and debt. IBM will continue with a disciplined financial policy and is committed to continued dividend growth and maintaining strong investment grade credit ratings. As a result of the proposed transaction, the company expects the major rating agencies to downgrade IBM and IBM Credit LLC long-term debt securities by one rating. Standard and Poor’s has lowered IBM and IBM Credit’s long-term debt rating one notch to A from A+, with no change to the short-term debt rating of A-1. The other major rating agencies are reviewing the companies’ ratings. In addition, the company intends to suspend its share repurchase program in 2020 and 2021. The guidance is primarily a change in financial statement presentation, but it did impact the consolidated and reportable segment gross profit margins and expense and other income. The periods presented in this Form 10-Q are reported on a comparable basis. The company filed a Form 8-K on March 29, 2018 to recast its historical consolidated and segment information to reflect the change. When the company refers to growth rates at constant currency or adjusts such growth rates for currency, it is done so that certain financial results can be viewed without the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, thereby facilitating period-to-period comparisons of its business performance. Financial results adjusted for currency are calculated by translating current period activity in local currency using the comparable prior year period’s currency conversion rate. This approach is used for countries where the functional currency is the local currency. Generally, when the dollar either strengthens or weakens against other currencies, the growth at constant currency rates or adjusting for currency will be higher or lower than growth reported at actual exchange rates. Refer to “Currency Rate Fluctuations” on pages 87 and 88 for additional information. Operating earnings from continuing operations is a non-GAAP measure that excludes the effects of certain acquisition-related charges, intangible asset amortization expense resulting from basis differences on equity method investments, retirement-related costs, discontinued operations and related tax impacts. These charges are excluded as they may be inconsistent in amount and timing from period to period and are dependent on the size, type and frequency of the company’s acquisitions. Throughout the Management Discussion, the impact of acquisitions over the prior 12-month period may be a driver of higher expense year to year. For retirement-related costs, the company characterizes certain items as operating and others as non-operating. The company includes defined benefit plan and nonpension postretirement benefit plan service cost, multi-employer plan costs and the cost of defined contribution plans in operating earnings. Non-operating retirement-related costs are primarily related to changes in pension plan assets and liabilities which are tied to financial market performance and the company considers these costs to be outside of the operational performance of the business. Overall, the company believes that providing investors with a view of operating earnings as described above provides increased transparency and clarity into both the operational results of the business and the performance of the company’s pension plans; improves visibility to management decisions and their impacts on operational performance; enables better comparison to peer companies; and allows the company to provide a long-term strategic view of the business going forward. The company’s reportable segment financial results reflect operating earnings from continuing operations, consistent with the company’s management and measurement system. The company generated $4.2 billion in cash from operations and $2.2 billion in free cash flow in the third quarter of 2018, and delivered shareholder returns of $2.1 billion through gross common stock repurchases and dividends. These results reflect the company’s ability to deliver differentiated value through innovative technologies with the skills and expertise to implement these technologies. From a segment perspective, Cognitive Solutions revenue decreased 5.7 percent as reported and 5 percent adjusted for currency, compared to third quarter 2017 with declines in both Solutions Software and Transaction Processing Software. However, within Solutions Software, there was growth in security, key areas of analytics and industry verticals such as Watson Health. Consulting increased 5.4 percent as reported and 7 percent adjusted for currency, led by offerings in Digital Strategy and iX. Application Management revenue decreased 3.1 percent as reported and 1 percent adjusted for currency. While Infrastructure Services decreased 1.2 percent and Integration Software was flat year to year as reported, both grew 1 percent adjusted for currency in the third quarter with growth in hybrid cloud implementations. Technical Support Services declined year to year as reported and adjusted for currency. Systems revenue increased 0.9 percent and 2 percent adjusted for currency compared to the third quarter 2017 with continued growth in IBM Z and Power Systems and a decline in Storage as reported and adjusted for currency. Strategic imperatives revenue over the last 12 months was $39.5 billion, an increase of 13 percent as reported and 11 percent adjusted for currency. The annual exit run rate for as-a-Service revenue increased to $11.4 billion in the third quarter of 2018 compared to $9.4 billion in the third quarter of 2017. Analytics revenue of $5.0 billion increased 1 percent as reported and 2 percent adjusted for currency. Mobile revenue increased 4 percent as reported and 5 percent adjusted for currency. From a geographic perspective, in the third quarter, Americas revenue was down 0.9 percent year to year as reported, but grew 1 percent adjusted for currency. There was solid growth in the UK and Spain as reported and adjusted for currency, offset by declines in Germany and France as reported and adjusted for currency. Asia Pacific decreased 3.3 percent as reported and 1 percent adjusted for currency, with Japan flat year to year as reported and adjusted for currency. Pre-tax income from continuing operations of $3.0 billion decreased 2.2 percent and the pre-tax margin was 16.0 percent, flat year to year. The continuing operations effective tax rate was 10.2 percent compared to 11.0 percent in the third quarter of 2017. Income from continuing operations of $2.7 billion decreased 1.3 percent and the net income margin was 14.4 percent, an increase from 14.2 percent in the third quarter of 2017. Net income of $2.7 billion decreased 1.2 percent year to year. The company continues to expect free cash flow to be approximately $12 billion in 2018. Free cash flow realization is expected to be in excess of 100 percent of GAAP net income. Refer to page 89 in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section for additional information on this non-GAAP measure. Refer to the Looking Forward section on pages 86 and 87 for additional information on the company’s expectations. The company generated $11.1 billion in cash from operations and $5.4 billion in free cash flow in the first nine months of 2018 and delivered shareholder returns of $6.6 billion through gross common stock repurchases and dividends. Total consolidated revenue increased 2.2 percent year to year as reported and 0.4 percent adjusted for currency in the first nine months of 2018. The company continued to have solid revenue growth in its strategic imperatives, led by cloud and security. GBS revenue increased 2.4 percent as reported, but was flat year to year adjusted for currency. Systems revenue increased 11.3 percent as reported and 10 percent adjusted for currency, driven by strong growth in IBM Z and growth in Power Systems. In the first nine months of 2018, the company’s strategic imperatives revenue increased 12 percent year to year as reported and 10 percent adjusted for currency. Analytics revenue of $15.3 billion increased 5 percent as reported and 4 percent adjusted for currency. From a geographic perspective, Americas revenue declined 0.3 percent year to year as reported and was flat adjusted for currency with a modest decline in the U.S. There was growth in Canada as reported and adjusted for currency, while Latin America declined as reported but grew year to year adjusted for currency. EMEA increased 6.9 percent as reported and 1 percent adjusted for currency with growth as reported and adjusted for currency in Germany, France, the UK and Spain. Asia Pacific increased 1.0 percent as reported and was flat adjusted for currency, with Japan up 2.1 percent as reported and flat adjusted for currency. While the GBS margin has improved on a year-to-year basis, the overall margin decline is primarily driven by continued investment in cloud and portfolio mix. Pre-tax income from continuing operations of $6.9 billion decreased 0.3 percent and the pre-tax margin was 11.9 percent, a decrease of 0.3 points versus the first nine months of 2017. The continuing operations effective tax rate for the first nine months of 2018 was 2.0 percent compared to 1.7 percent in the prior year. The tax rate in the first nine months of 2018 was primarily driven by the first-quarter resolution of certain U.S. tax audit matters and a net discrete tax benefit in the third quarter. The prior year tax rate was primarily driven by discrete tax items in the first half of the year. Income from continuing operations of $6.8 billion decreased 0.6 percent and the net income margin was 11.7 percent, a decrease of 0.3 points compared to the first nine months of 2017. Income from discontinued operations, net of tax, was $7 million in the first nine months of 2018 versus a loss of $3 million in the prior-year period. Net income of $6.8 billion decreased 0.5 percent year to year. In the first nine months of 2018, the company repurchased 16.0 million shares of its common stock and had $1.4 billion remaining in the current share repurchase authorization at September 30, 2018. At September 30, 2018, the balance sheet remained strong and the company continues to have the financial flexibility to support the business for the long term. Cash, restricted cash and marketable securities at quarter end were $14.7 billion, an increase of $1.8 billion from December 31, 2017. Segment pre-tax income includes transactions between the segments that are intended to reflect an arm’s-length transfer price and excludes certain unallocated corporate items. Yr. to Yr. For the first nine months of the year, Cognitive Solutions revenue of $13,027 million was flat as reported, but declined 1 percent adjusted for currency, with growth in Solutions Software as reported, but declined adjusted for currency. Transaction Processing Software revenue declined both as reported and adjusted for currency. In the third quarter, Solutions Software revenue of $2,910 million decreased 4.0 percent as reported and 3 percent adjusted for currency. There was good performance in the quarter in strategic verticals such as health, domain-specific capabilities including security solutions and key strategic areas of analytics, and in the emerging technologies of AI and blockchain. Transaction Processing Software revenue of $1,238 million decreased 9.7 percent as reported and 8 percent adjusted for currency. The year-to-year performance was impacted by strong results in third quarter 2017. This software runs mission-critical workloads, leveraging IBM hardware platforms, and performance is often tied to client buying cycles. Across the platforms, declines in Storage and IBM Z middleware software were partially offset by growth in Power Systems middleware. Cognitive Solutions third-quarter strategic imperatives revenue of $2.8 billion declined 5 percent as reported and 4 percent adjusted for currency. Within Cognitive Solutions, strategic imperatives performance essentially reflects the performance in Solutions Software. Cloud revenue of $0.6 billion decreased 3 percent as reported and 2 percent adjusted for currency, with an as-a-Service exit run rate of $2.0 billion. For the first nine months of the year, Cognitive Solutions strategic imperatives revenue of $8.6 billion grew 1 percent as reported, but decreased 1 percent adjusted for currency. Cloud revenue of $1.9 billion grew 1 percent as reported and was flat adjusted for currency. Cognitive Solutions gross profit margin decreased 2.7 points to 76.0 percent in the third quarter of 2018. For the first nine months of 2018, gross profit margin decreased 1.7 points to 76.7 percent. The gross profit margin decline in both periods was driven by continued investment in strategic areas, a mix to services and a higher level of royalty cost associated with IP licensing agreements compared to the prior-year periods. In the third quarter, pre-tax income of $1,629 million decreased 0.9 percent compared to the prior year with a pre-tax margin improvement of 1.3 points to 34.0 percent. For the first nine months of the year, pre-tax income of $4,718 million increased 4.3 percent compared to the prior year with a pre-tax margin improvement of 1.0 points to 31.1 percent. Pre-tax margins improved, driven by operational efficiencies, including acquisition synergies, even as the company continues to invest at high levels in key strategic areas, including AI, security and blockchain. The company has realigned its practice model around key growth platforms including digital transformation, cloud applications and cognitive processes. For the first nine months of the year, Global Business Services revenue of $12,495 million increased 2.4 percent as reported and was flat adjusted for currency. In the third quarter, Consulting revenue of $1,900 million increased 5.4 percent as reported and 7 percent adjusted for currency, led by growth in offerings within Digital Strategy, iX and Cognitive Process Transformation. Clients are leveraging IBM’s leading-edge technology portfolio and industry expertise to enable their digital transformation. Application Management revenue of $1,915 million decreased 3.1 percent as reported and 1 percent adjusted for currency with decline in traditional enterprise application managed services partially offset by growth in strategic offerings, such as Cloud Migration Factory. Third-quarter 2018 GBS strategic imperatives revenue of $2.7 billion grew 8 percent as reported and 9 percent adjusted for currency. Cloud revenue of $1.2 billion grew 16 percent as reported and 18 percent adjusted for currency, with an as-a-Service exit run rate of $1.9 billion. For the first nine months of the year, GBS strategic imperatives revenue of $7.9 billion grew 9 percent as reported and 7 percent adjusted for currency year to year. Cloud revenue of $3.3 billion grew 15 percent as reported and 13 percent adjusted for currency. GBS third-quarter gross profit margin increased 2.7 points to 29.8 percent. The company has continued to shift toward higher value offerings such as Digital and Cognitive to capture price for value, at the same time realigning resources to key skill areas, driving increased utilization and productivity. Pre-tax income of $579 million increased 30.9 percent year to year and pre-tax margin increased 3.2 points to 13.8 percent. For the first nine months of the year, pre-tax income of $1,109 million increased 7.1 percent and pre-tax margin improved 0.4 points to 8.7 percent. Pre-tax margin for the first nine months of 2018 included an impact of 0.8 points due to a higher level of charges related to workforce rebalancing in the first-quarter 2018, which is contributing to productivity around labor models and structure. Infrastructure Services revenue of $5,595 million decreased 1.2 percent as reported, but increased 1 percent adjusted for currency in the third quarter of 2018 compared to the prior-year period. Performance was driven by growth in hybrid cloud implementations and the company continues to deliver new, open and interoperable approaches to the cloud. TSS revenue continues to be impacted by the dynamics of the IBM Z product cycle as clients move from maintenance to warranty for the first year, partially offset by continued growth in core multi-vendor support services. In the third-quarter 2018, Integration Software revenue of $990 million was flat as reported and grew 1 percent adjusted for currency driven by offerings that assist clients with the modernization, automation and integration of their applications within a hybrid cloud environment, including strong adoption of IBM Cloud Private. Cloud revenue of $2.1 billion grew 19 percent as reported and 22 percent adjusted for currency, with an as-a-Service exit run rate of $7.5 billion. Cloud revenue of $6.4 billion grew 25 percent as reported and 23 percent adjusted for currency. The company continues to make the investments required to capitalize on the shift to cloud by expanding capacity and data center footprints around the world, driving productivity and workforce optimization efficiencies, and investing in hybrid cloud innovation. Pre-tax income of $1,075 million decreased 8.6 percent in the third quarter. Pre-tax margin declined 1.1 points year to year to 12.6 percent. The pre-tax margin in the first nine months of 2018 compared to the prior year included an impact of 0.9 points from a higher level of workforce rebalancing charges in the first quarter of 2018. Total services backlog includes Infrastructure Services, Consulting, Global Process Services, Application Management and Technical Support Services. Total backlog is intended to be a statement of overall work under contract which is either non-cancellable, or which historically has very low likelihood of termination, given the criticality of certain services to the company’s clients. Total backlog does not include as-a-Service arrangements that allow for termination under contractual commitment terms. Backlog estimates are subject to change and are affected by several factors, including terminations, changes in the scope of contracts, periodic revalidations, adjustments for revenue not materialized and adjustments for currency. Services signings are management’s initial estimate of the value of a client’s commitment under a services contract. There are no third-party standards or requirements governing the calculation of signings. The calculation used by management involves estimates and judgments to gauge the extent of a client’s commitment, including the type and duration of the agreement, and the presence of termination charges or wind-down costs. Signings include Infrastructure Services, Consulting, Global Process Services and Application Management contracts. Contract extensions and increases in scope are treated as signings only to the extent of the incremental new value. Certain longer-term TSS contracts that have characteristics similar to outsourcing contracts are included in signings. Contract portfolios purchased in an acquisition are treated as positive backlog adjustments provided those contracts meet the company’s requirements for initial signings. A new signing will be recognized if a new services agreement is signed incidental or coincidental to an acquisition or divestiture. Yr. to Yr. Operating Systems Software revenue of $397 million decreased 5.6 percent as reported and 4 percent adjusted for currency compared to the prior year. The z14 adoption remained broad based, across many countries and industries, and revenue increased year to year despite the strong growth in the prior year. The pervasive encryption capabilities of the z14 continues to be a key differentiator, as new clients were again added to the platform during the third quarter. New POWER9 processors for mid-range and high-end systems were launched in the third quarter which are designed for handling advanced analytics, cloud environments and data intensive workloads in AI, HANA and UNIX markets. During the third quarter, the company continued to deliver the most powerful commercially available supercomputers built with POWER9 technology to U.S. Department of Energy labs. Storage is an increasingly competitive environment requiring continual investment in innovation. The company has released new functionality to protect critical client data from cyberattacks, and the new FlashSystem with next generation NVMe technology was announced in the quarter. Third-quarter Systems strategic imperatives revenue of $0.9 billion grew 5 percent year to year both as reported and adjusted for currency. Cloud revenue of $1.9 billion increased 12 percent as reported and 10 percent adjusted for currency. Systems gross profit margin decreased 1.0 points to 52.7 percent in the third quarter of 2018 compared to the prior year. The overall decrease year to year was driven primarily by margin declines in Operating Systems Software. Systems Hardware margins were flat year to year, with growth in IBM Z offset by declines in Power Systems and Storage Systems. For the first nine months of the year, Systems gross profit margin decreased 2.2 points to 49.3 percent compared to the prior year, driven primarily by margin declines in Operating Systems Software. Systems Hardware gross profit margins were flat year to year, with margin declines in IBM Z, Power Systems and Storage Systems offset by a benefit from mix to IBM Z. In the third quarter of 2018, pre-tax income of $209 million declined 37.9 percent and pre-tax margin decreased 6.4 points year to year to 10.9 percent, driven primarily by a lower level of IP income and continuing investment to drive innovation across the portfolio. For the first nine months of the year, pre-tax income of $352 million increased $131 million and pre-tax margin increased 1.8 points year to year to 5.9 percent, primarily due to the IBM Z product cycle, partially offset by the first-quarter actions taken to improve the systems cost structure over the longer term. Global Financing facilitates IBM clients’ acquisition of information technology systems, software and services by providing financing solutions in the areas where the company has the expertise, while generating strong returns on equity. Global Financing also optimizes the recovery of residual values by selling assets sourced from end of lease, leasing used equipment to new clients, or extending lease arrangements with current clients. Sales of equipment include equipment returned at the end of a lease, surplus internal equipment and used equipment purchased externally. Residual value is a risk unique to the financing business and management of this risk is dependent upon the ability to accurately project future equipment values at lease inception. Global Financing has insight into product plans and cycles for the IBM products under lease. Based upon this product information, Global Financing continually monitors projections of future equipment values and compares them with the residual values reflected in the portfolio. In the third quarter of 2018, Global Financing total revenue of $726 million increased 4.0 percent compared to the prior year. The year-to-year increases in internal financing revenue in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 were due to higher asset yields and higher average asset balances. The increases in external financing revenue in the third quarter and first nine months of 2018, compared to the same periods in 2017, respectively, were due to higher average asset balances, partially offset by lower asset yields. Total sales of used equipment represented 42.7 percent and 49.2 percent of Global Financing’s revenue in the third quarter and first nine months of 2018, respectively, compared to 46.5 percent and 47.5 percent in the third quarter and first nine months of 2017, respectively. The decrease in the third quarter was due to a lower volume of external used equipment sales, partially offset by increases in internal transactions. The increase in the first nine months of 2018 compared to the prior year was due to higher volumes for internal used equipment sales. The gross profit margin on used sales was 50.9 percent and 33.2 percent in the third quarter of 2018 and 2017, respectively, and 56.6 percent and 45.4 percent in the first nine months of 2018 and 2017, respectively. The increase in the gross profit margin was driven by a shift towards higher margin internal equipment sales. Global Financing pre-tax income increased 26.9 percent to $308 million in the third quarter of 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, due to higher gross profit of $58 million and a decrease in expense of $7 million. Pre-tax income increased 24.8 percent to $1,042 million in the first nine months of 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, due to higher gross profit of $212 million, partially offset by an increase in expense of $5 million. Global Financing return on equity was 27.5 percent and 30.5 percent for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, compared to 23.8 percent and 24.5 percent for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, respectively. The increase in return on equity in the third quarter and first nine months of 2018, compared to the same periods of 2017, was due to the increase in net income. Refer to page 90 for the details of the after-tax income and return on equity calculation. Total unguaranteed residual value of leases, including operating leases, was $663 million as of September 30, 2018. In addition to the unguaranteed residual value, on a limited basis, Global Financing will obtain guarantees of the future value of the equipment to be returned at end of lease. Third-party residual value guarantees increase the minimum lease payments as provided for by accounting standards that are utilized in determining the classification of a lease as a sales-type lease, direct financing lease or operating lease. The aggregate asset values associated with the guarantees of sales-type leases were $57 million and $79 million for the financing transactions originated during the quarters ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $212 million and $186 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Yr. to Yr. Yr. to Yr. In the third quarter, total revenue of $18,756 million decreased 2.1 percent as reported and was flat adjusted for currency compared to the prior year. Americas revenue of $8,853 million decreased 0.9 percent as reported, but grew 1 percent adjusted for currency. EMEA revenue of $5,827 million decreased 3.0 percent as reported and 2 percent adjusted for currency. Asia Pacific revenue of $4,076 million decreased 3.3 percent as reported and 1 percent adjusted for currency. Within Americas, U.S. revenue increased 0.2 percent compared to the prior year. Canada increased 0.7 percent as reported and 5 percent adjusted for currency. Latin America decreased 8.6 percent as reported, but grew 3 percent adjusted for currency. Within Latin America, Brazil decreased 14.5 percent as reported, but was flat adjusted for currency. In EMEA, Germany declined 6.6 percent as reported and 6 percent adjusted for currency. France decreased 5.3 percent as reported and 4 percent adjusted for currency. Italy decreased 1.4 percent as reported and was flat adjusted for currency. The UK increased 5.9 percent as reported and 7 percent adjusted for currency and Spain increased 5.3 percent as reported and 6 percent adjusted for currency. The Middle East and Africa region decreased 11.0 percent as reported and 10 percent adjusted for currency. Within Asia Pacific, Japan was flat as reported and adjusted for currency compared to the prior year. Australia was flat as reported, but grew 8 percent adjusted for currency. Total revenue of $57,830 million increased 2.2 percent as reported and was flat adjusted for currency in the first nine months of 2018 compared to the prior year. Americas revenue of $26,772 million was flat as reported and adjusted for currency. EMEA revenue of $18,410 million increased 6.9 percent as reported and 1 percent adjusted for currency. Asia Pacific revenue of $12,648 million increased 1.0 percent as reported and was flat on an adjusted for currency basis. Within Americas, U.S. revenue decreased 0.6 percent compared to the first nine months of the prior year. Canada increased 3.7 percent as reported and 2 percent adjusted for currency. Latin America decreased 2.4 percent as reported, but grew 4 percent adjusted for currency. Within Latin America, Brazil decreased 4.4 percent as reported, but increased 4 percent adjusted for currency. France increased 11.4 percent as reported and 4 percent adjusted for currency. Spain increased 16.6 percent as reported and 9 percent adjusted for currency. Italy increased 6.2 percent as reported, but declined 1 percent adjusted for currency. The Middle East and Africa region increased 2.1 percent as reported and 2 percent adjusted for currency. Within Asia Pacific, Japan increased 2.1 percent as reported and was flat adjusted for currency. Australia increased 3.3 percent as reported and 5 percent adjusted for currency. India decreased 10.0 percent as reported and 7 percent adjusted for currency, while China was flat as reported, but declined 2 percent adjusted for currency. The receivables provision coverage was 1.9 percent at September 30, 2018, an increase of 30 basis points compared to December 31, 2017 and flat compared to September 30, 2017. The company continues to invest in research and development as it builds new markets and maintains its leadership in enterprise IT. The company entered into new partnership agreements in the first nine months of 2018, which included three transactions with period income greater than $100 million. There were two transactions greater than $100 million in the first nine months of 2017. The company licenses IP to partners who allocate their skills to extend the value of assets that are high value, but may be in mature markets. The timing and amount of licensing, sales or other transfers of IP may vary significantly from period to period depending upon the timing of licensing agreements, economic conditions, industry consolidation and the timing of new patents and know-how development. The year-to-year change was driven primarily by the same factors as above, excluding the higher non-operating retirement-related costs. Interest expense is presented in cost of financing in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings if the related external borrowings are to support the Global Financing external business. Utilizing this characterization, operating retirement-related costs in the third quarter of 2018 were $365 million, a decrease of $15 million compared to the third quarter of 2017 and non-operating costs were $389 million increasing $116 million year to year. For the first nine months of 2018, operating retirement-related costs were $1,115 million, a decrease of $13 million compared to the prior year and non-operating costs were $1,185 million increasing $216 million in the first nine months of 2018 compared to the prior year driven primarily by the same factors as above. The continuing operations effective tax rate for the first nine months of 2018 was 2.0 percent, an increase of 0.3 points compared to the first nine months of 2017. The change in the continuing operations effective tax rate for the first nine months of 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily driven by the year to year impacts above, as well as a discrete tax benefit in the first quarter of 2018 from the resolution of certain U.S. federal audit activity. These benefits were partially offset by the first-half 2018 net provisional charge related to U.S. tax reform and prior year tax benefits related to the intercompany transfer of IP and foreign audit activity. Diluted earnings per share is computed on the basis of the weighted-average number of shares of common stock outstanding plus the effect of dilutive potential common shares outstanding during the period using the treasury stock method. Dilutive potential common shares include outstanding stock options and stock awards. Yr. to Yr. Yr. to Yr. Actual shares outstanding at September 30, 2018 were 908.8 million. The weighted-average number of common shares outstanding assuming dilution during the third quarter and first nine months of 2018 were 18.0 million and 20.2 million shares lower than the same periods of 2017. The decreases were primarily the result of the common stock repurchase program. Cash, restricted cash and marketable securities at quarter end were $14,662 million. The company continues to manage the investment portfolio to meet its capital preservation and liquidity objectives. Total debt of $46,921 million increased $97 million from December 31, 2017, driven by new debt issuances of $2,756 million and an increase in commercial paper of $2,490 million; partially offset by debt maturities of $4,243 million. Within total debt, $30,367 million, or approximately 65 percent, is in support of the Global Financing business. In the first nine months of 2018, the company generated $11,128 million in cash from operations, compared to $10,991 million in the first nine months of 2017. The company has consistently generated strong cash flows from operations and continues to have access to additional sources of liquidity through the capital markets and its credit facilities. The assets and debt associated with the Global Financing business are a significant part of the company’s financial position. The financial position amounts appearing on pages 5 and 6 are the consolidated amounts including Global Financing. At September 30, 2018, substantially all client and commercial financing assets were IT related assets, and approximately 55 percent of the total external portfolio was with investment grade clients with no direct exposure to consumers. This investment grade percentage is based on the credit ratings of the companies in the portfolio. The company has a long-standing practice of taking mitigating actions, in certain circumstances, to transfer credit risk to third parties, including credit insurance, financial guarantees, non-recourse borrowings, transfers of receivables recorded as true sales in accordance with accounting guidance or sales of equipment under operating lease. Adjusting for the mitigation actions, the investment grade content would increase by 15 points to 69 percent, an increase of 2 points year to year. The total IBM receivables provision coverage was 1.9 percent at September 30, 2018, an increase of 30 basis points compared to December 31, 2017. The increase was primarily driven by the overall decline in gross receivables. The percentage of Global Financing receivables reserved increased from 1.1 percent at December 31, 2017, to 1.2 percent at September 30, 2018. The increase was primarily driven by the overall decline in gross receivables. Specific reserves decreased 2 percent from $258 million at December 31, 2017, to $252 million at September 30, 2018. Unallocated reserves decreased 6 percent from $78 million at December 31, 2017, to $73 million at September 30, 2018. Global Financing’s bad debt expense was a release of $6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018, compared to a $1 million release for the same period in 2017 due to lower unallocated allowance requirements. Global Financing’s bad debt expense was $18 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 compared to $14 million in the prior year, due to higher specific allowance requirements in 2018. Additionally, the company maintains sufficient flexibility to access global funding sources as needed. Global Financing provides financing predominantly for the company’s external client assets, as well as for assets under contract by other IBM units. IBM Credit LLC began issuing public debt in September 2017. Non-Global Financing debt of $16,554 million was up $1,164 million from December 31, 2017 and up $319 million from September 30, 2017. Total debt changes generally correspond with the level of client and commercial financing receivables, the level of cash and cash equivalents, the change in intercompany and external payables and the change in intercompany investment from IBM. The terms of the intercompany loans are set by the company to substantially match the term, currency and interest rate variability underlying the financing receivable and are based on arm’s-length pricing. Global Financing provides financing predominantly for the company’s external client assets, as well as for assets under contract by other IBM units. As previously stated, the company measures Global Financing as a stand-alone entity, and accordingly, interest expense relating to debt supporting Global Financing’s external client and internal business is included in the “Global Financing Results of Operations” on page 72 and in note 7, “Segments,” on pages 37 and 38. In the company’s Consolidated Statement of Earnings, the external debt-related interest expense supporting Global Financing’s internal financing to the company is reclassified from cost of financing to interest expense. These amounts include the cash flows associated with the Global Financing business. A long-term perspective ensures that the company is well-positioned to take advantage of the major shifts in technology, business and the global economy. As part of its strategic model, the company expects to continue to allocate capital efficiently and effectively to investments, and to return value to shareholders through a combination of dividends and share repurchases. Over the last several years, the company has been making investments and shifting resources, embedding AI and cloud into its offerings while building new solutions and modernizing its existing platforms. These investments not only drive current performance, but will extend the company’s innovation leadership into the future. The company’s key differentiators are built around three pillars - innovative technology, industry expertise and trust and security, uniquely delivered through an integrated model. The company’s performance in the third quarter and first nine months of 2018 reflects the investments that have been made and actions taken to reposition the business, further align the company’s skills base to opportunity and drive operating efficiencies. The company has been rebuilding its innovation pipeline in order to address the areas enterprise clients value in an IT industry that has been rapidly reordering; technologies such as AI, blockchain and cybersecurity; delivered in hybrid cloud environments. This is consistent with the long-term model and reinforces the company’s position as high-value. At mid-October spot rates, the company expects a 0 to 1 point currency benefit to full-year 2018 revenue growth, including a 2 point currency headwind in the fourth quarter and continues to expect full-year revenue growth. GAAP earnings per share from continuing operations expectations do not include any estimate for final impacts that will be recorded in the fourth-quarter 2018 from U.S. tax reform enactment. The company continues to expect free cash flow to be approximately $12 billion in 2018. Free cash flow expectations for the year include a year-to-year headwind from strong receivables performance in 2017, a year-to-year headwind from cash tax payments, which was fully realized by the end of the second quarter, and a full year expected increase in capital expenditures. The tax rates reflect U.S. tax reform, which includes a lower U.S. corporate tax rate, offset by the broader tax base and reduced foreign tax credit utilization. The rate will change year to year based on discrete tax events, such as the settlement of income tax audits and changes in tax laws, as well as recurring factors including the geographic mix of income before taxes, state and local taxes and the effects of various global income tax strategies. The GAAP tax rate could be affected by changes to the net provisional charge recorded by the company for U.S. tax reform enactment, as the charge is finalized in the fourth quarter. The company expects 2018 pre-tax retirement-related plan cost to be approximately $3.1 billion, an increase of approximately $200 million compared to 2017. This estimate reflects current pension plan assumptions at December 31, 2017. Consistent with the new FASB guidance for the presentation of net periodic pension and postretirement benefit costs, within total retirement-related plan cost, operating retirement-related plan cost is expected to be approximately $1.5 billion, approximately flat versus 2017. Non-operating retirement-related plan cost is expected to be approximately $1.6 billion, an increase of approximately $200 million compared to 2017, driven by lower income from expected return on assets and a year-to-year impact due to the pension obligation adjustment resulting from the successful resolution of the UK pension litigation matter in 2017. Contributions for all retirement-related plans are expected to be approximately $2.3 billion in 2018, a decrease of approximately $100 million compared to 2017. Beginning in 2019, the company projects that within the IBM U.S. Qualified Personal Pension Plan, substantially all the plan participants will be considered inactive, which, as required by U.S. GAAP, will result in a change in the amortization period of unrecognized actuarial losses, from the average remaining service period to the average remaining life expectancy of plan participants. These periods are approximately 8 years and 18 years, respectively. As a result of this change, the company expects a reduction to 2019 amortization expense in the range of $800 million to $1.0 billion. Actuarial loss amortization is reported within non-operating pension costs. There will be no impact to the funded status, retiree benefit payments or funding requirements of the U.S. Qualified Personal Pension Plan, however there will be an impact to free cash flow realization in 2019. The company is not able to provide expectations on the overall expected 2019 pre-tax retirement-related plan cost, as certain assumptions, such as discount rates, could have a material impact on the cost and are not available until December 31, 2018. The company uses financial hedging instruments to limit specific currency risks related to financing transactions and other foreign currency-based transactions. During periods of sustained movements in currency, the marketplace and competition adjust to the changing rates. For example, when pricing offerings in the marketplace, the company may use some of the advantage from a weakening U.S. dollar to improve its position competitively, and price more aggressively to win the business, essentially passing on a portion of the currency advantage to its customers. Competition will frequently take the same action. Consequently, the company believes that some of the currency-based changes in cost impact the prices charged to clients. The company also maintains currency hedging programs for cash management purposes which temporarily mitigate, but do not eliminate, the volatility of currency impacts on the company’s financial results. The company translates revenue, cost and expense in its non-U.S. operations at current exchange rates in the reported period. References to “adjusted for currency” or “constant currency” reflect adjustments based upon a simple mathematical formula. However, this constant currency methodology that the company utilizes to disclose this information does not incorporate any operational actions that management could take to mitigate fluctuating currency rates. Currency movements impacted the company’s year-to-year revenue and earnings per share growth in the first nine months of 2018. Based on the currency rate movements in the first nine months of 2018, total revenue increased 2.2 percent as reported and 0.4 percent at constant currency versus the first nine months of 2017. The company views these amounts as a theoretical maximum impact to its as-reported financial results. Considering the operational responses mentioned above, movements of exchange rates, and the nature and timing of hedging instruments, it is difficult to predict future currency impacts on any particular period, but the company believes it could be substantially less than the theoretical maximum given the competitive pressure in the marketplace. For non-U.S. subsidiaries and branches that operate in U.S. dollars or whose economic environment is highly inflationary, translation adjustments are reflected in results of operations. Generally, the company manages currency risk in these entities by linking prices and contracts to U.S. dollars. In recent months there have been reported economic events impacting the Argentinean economy, such as significant depreciation of the Argentine peso, increases in interest rates and the Argentine government requesting financial assistance from the International Monetary Fund. The three-year cumulative inflation rates, using a combination of monthly indices, exceeded the 100% threshold for hyperinflation. As a result, effective July 1, 2018, the company changed the functional currency from local currency to U.S. dollar functional for Argentina with no material impact. The table presented on page 67 includes net cash from operating activities, cash and marketable securities and the size of the company’s global credit facilities for each of the past five years. For the nine months ended, or as of, as applicable, September 30, 2018, those amounts are $11.1 billion of net cash from operating activities, $14.7 billion of cash, restricted cash and marketable securities and $15.3 billion in global credit facilities, respectively. The major rating agencies’ ratings on the company’s debt securities at September 30, 2018 appear in the following table. The ratings remain unchanged from December 31, 2017. The company does not have “ratings trigger” provisions in its debt covenants or documentation, which would allow the holders to declare an event of default and seek to accelerate payments thereunder in the event of a change in credit rating. The company’s contractual agreements governing derivative instruments contain standard market clauses which can trigger the termination of the agreement if the company’s credit rating were to fall below investment grade. At September 30, 2018, the fair value of those instruments that were in a liability position was $415 million, before any applicable netting, and this position is subject to fluctuations in fair value period to period based on the level of the company’s outstanding instruments and market conditions. The company has no other contractual arrangements that, in the event of a change in credit rating, would result in a material adverse effect on its financial position or liquidity. For the purpose of running its business, the company manages, monitors and analyzes cash flows in a different manner. Management uses free cash flow as a measure to evaluate its operating results, plan share repurchase levels, strategic investments and assess its ability and need to incur and service debt. The entire free cash flow amount is not necessarily available for discretionary expenditures. The company defines free cash flow as net cash from operating activities less the change in Global Financing receivables and net capital expenditures, including the investment in software. A key objective of the Global Financing business is to generate strong returns on equity, and increasing receivables is the basis for growth. Accordingly, management considers Global Financing receivables as a profit-generating investment, not as working capital that should be minimized for efficiency. Therefore, management includes presentations of both free cash flow and net cash from operating activities that exclude the effect of Global Financing receivables. Free cash flow guidance is derived using an estimate of profit, working capital and operational cash outflows. As previously noted, the company views Global Financing receivables as a profit-generating investment which it seeks to maximize and therefore it is not considered when formulating guidance for free cash flow. As a result the company does not estimate a GAAP Net Cash from Operations expectation metric. The following is management’s view of cash flows for the first nine months of 2018 and 2017 prepared in a manner consistent with the description above. In the first nine months of 2018, the company generated free cash flow of $5.4 billion, a decrease of $0.8 billion versus the prior year driven by higher capital expenditures and higher cash taxes. Net capital expenditures of $2.8 billion increased $0.5 billion year to year reflecting increased investments to build out global cloud datacenters. Events that could temporarily change the historical cash flow dynamics discussed previously and in the company’s 2017 Annual Report include significant changes in operating results, material changes in geographic sources of cash, unexpected adverse impacts from litigation, future pension funding requirements during periods of severe downturn in the capital markets or the timing of tax payments. Whether any litigation has such an adverse impact will depend on a number of variables, which are more completely described in note 13, “Contingencies,” in this Form 10-Q. Contributions related to all retirement-related plans are expected to be approximately $2.3 billion in 2018. Financial market performance could increase the legally mandated minimum contributions in certain non-U.S. countries that require more frequent remeasurement of the funded status. The company is not quantifying any further impact from pension funding because it is not possible to predict future movements in the capital markets or pension plan funding regulations. In 2018, the company is not legally required to make any contributions to the U.S. defined benefit plans. The company’s U.S. cash flows continue to be sufficient to fund its current domestic operations and obligations, including investing and financing activities such as dividends and debt service. The company’s U.S. operations generate substantial cash flows, and, in those circumstances where the company has additional cash requirements in the U.S., the company has several liquidity options available. These options may include the ability to borrow additional funds at reasonable interest rates, utilizing its committed global credit facility, repatriating certain foreign earnings and utilizing intercompany loans with certain foreign subsidiaries. Forward-looking statements are based on the company’s current assumptions regarding future business and financial performance. The company assumes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements. Item 4. Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that the company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this report. There has been no change in the company’s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the quarter covered by this report that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the company’s internal control over financial reporting. Item 2. The company stated that it would repurchase shares on the open market or in private transactions depending on market conditions. The common stock repurchase program does not have an expiration date. This table does not include shares tendered to satisfy the exercise price in connection with cashless exercises of employee stock options or shares tendered to satisfy tax withholding obligations in connection with employee equity awards.