Employer Identification No. We believe this format improves readability and better presents how we organize and manage our business. See "Form 10-Q Cross-Reference Index" within Other Key Information for a cross-reference index to the traditional SEC Form 10-Q format. We have included key metrics that we use to measure our business, some of which are non-GAAP measures. See these "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" within Other Key Information. Words such as "anticipates," "expects," "intends," "goals," "plans," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," "continues," "may," "will," "would," "should," "could," and variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. In addition, any statements that refer to projections of our future financial performance, our anticipated growth and trends in our businesses, projected growth of markets relevant to our businesses, uncertain events or assumptions, and other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. Such statements are based on management's expectations as of the date of this filing and involve many risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in our forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include those described throughout this report and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 30, 2017, particularly the "Risk Factors" sections of such reports. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. Readers are urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures made in this Form 10-Q and in other documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission that disclose risks and uncertainties that may affect our business. The forward-looking statements in this Form 10-Q do not reflect the potential impact of any divestitures, mergers, acquisitions, or other business combinations that had not been completed as of the date of this filing. In addition, the forward-looking statements in this Form 10-Q are made as of the date of this filing, including expectations based on third-party information and projections that management believes to be reputable, and Intel does not undertake, and expressly disclaims any duty, to update such statements, whether as a result of new information, new developments or otherwise, except to the extent that disclosure may be required by law.INTEL UNIQUE TERMSWe use specific terms throughout this document to describe our business and results. Combined with our platform products, adjacent products form comprehensive platform solutions to meet customer needs. PC-CENTRIC BUSINESS Is made up of our CCG business, both platform and adjacent products. 1Table of ContentsA QUARTER IN REVIEWThe third quarter was a record quarter in revenue, operating income, and net income, driven by strong customer demand for the performance of our leadership products across the business. Strong business performance, operating margin leverage, and lower tax rate resulted in net income of $6.4 billion in the third quarter. From a capital allocation perspective, in the first nine months we generated $22.5 billion of cash flow from operations and returned $12.6 billion to shareholders, including $4.2 billion in dividends and $8.5 billion in buybacks. Today our strategy, products, and employees are delivering on that ambition with strong growth, record results, and new opportunities. To extend the growth momentum, we are now shipping Intel® Optane™ data center persistent memory, which combines the speed of traditional memory with the capacity and native persistence of storage. •Our focus on performance leadership and differentiation in client computing is producing outstanding results. In addition, we expect modest PC TAM2 growth this year and continued share gain in modems. To extend product leadership and to deliver more value to customers, we launched new 9th Gen Intel® Core™ processors, targeting the growing gaming market segment. •The return to PC TAM growth put pressure on our factory network. In addition to prioritizing production to serve server and high-performance PC market segments, we are investing additional capital expenditure to increase our supply, working with customers to align demand with available supply, and making good progress to improve 10nm yields. •30 years ago, in September, 1988, Gordon Moore helped establish the Intel Foundation, a public charity funded by our company. We have reclassified certain prior period amounts to conform to current period presentation. We have made estimates and judgments affecting the amounts reported in our consolidated condensed financial statements and the accompanying notes. The actual results that we experience may differ materially from our estimates. The interim financial information is unaudited, but reflects all normal adjustments that are, in our opinion, necessary to provide a fair statement of results for the interim periods presented. This report should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements in our 2017 Form 10-K. In accordance with the revised standard, we have separated the different components of net periodic benefit cost, presenting service cost components within operating income and other non-service components separately outside of operating income on the income statement. Changes to the presentation of benefit costs were required to be adopted retrospectively, while changes to the capitalization of service costs into inventories were required to be adopted prospectively. Under the new model, recognition of revenue occurs when a customer obtains control of promised goods or services in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. Under the new standard we now recognize revenue when we deliver to the distributor rather than deferring recognition until the distributor sells the components. On the date of initial application, we removed the deferred income and related receivables on component sales made to distributors through a cumulative adjustment to retained earnings. We now recognize the expense for cooperative advertising in the period the marketing activities occur. Previously we recognized the expense in the period the customer was entitled to participate in the program, which coincided with the period of sale. On the date of initial adoption, we capitalized the expense of cooperative advertising not performed through a cumulative adjustment to retained earnings. We have completed our adoption and implemented policies, processes, and controls to support the standard's measurement and disclosure requirements. Substantially all of our revenue is derived from product sales. In accordance with contract terms, revenue for product sales is recognized at the time of product shipment from our facilities or delivery to the customer location, as determined by the agreed upon shipping terms. We include shipping charges billed to customers in net revenue, and include the related shipping costs in cost of sales.We measure revenue based on the amount of consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for products or services. Any variable consideration is recognized as a reduction of net revenue at the time of revenue recognition. We determine variable consideration, which consists primarily of sales price concessions, by estimating the most likely amount of consideration we expect to receive from the customer based on historical analysis of customer purchase volumes. The impacts of distributor sales price reductions resulting from price protection agreements are also estimated based on historical analysis of such activity and are reflected as a reduction in net revenue. We make payments to our customers through cooperative advertising programs, such as our Intel Inside® program, for marketing activities for certain of our products. We generally record the payment as a reduction in revenue in the period that the revenue is earned, unless the payment is for a distinct service, which we record as expense when the marketing activities occur. Changes to our marketable equity securities were required to be adopted using a modified retrospective approach through a cumulative effect adjustment to retained earnings for the fiscal year beginning December 31, 2017. Equity securities measured and recorded using the measurement alternative are recorded at cost minus impairment, if any, plus or minus changes resulting from qualifying observable price changes. Adjustments resulting from impairments and qualifying observable price changes are recorded in the income statement.Beginning in the first quarter of 2018, in accordance with the standard, recurring fair value disclosures are no longer provided for equity securities measured using the measurement alternative. In addition, the existing impairment model has been replaced with a new one-step qualitative impairment model. No initial adoption adjustment was recorded for these instruments since the standard was required to be applied prospectively for securities measured using the measurement alternative.We have completed our adoption and implemented policies, processes, and controls to support the standard's measurement and disclosure requirements. Refer to the table below, which summarizes impacts, net of tax, of the changes discussed above to our financial statements. This reflects an adjustment to opening balances for the fiscal year beginning December 31, 2017. Prior to fiscal 2018, these securities were measured and recorded at fair value and classified as available-for-sale securities. •Non-marketable equity securities are equity securities without RDFV that are measured and recorded using a measurement alternative which measures the securities at cost minus impairment, if any, plus or minus changes resulting from qualifying observable price changes. These securities were previously accounted for using the cost method of accounting, measured at cost less other-than-temporary impairment. •Equity method investments are equity securities in investees we do not control but over which we have the ability to exercise significant influence. Equity method investments are measured at cost minus impairment, if any, plus or minus our share of equity method investee income or loss. Our proportionate share of the income or loss from equity method investments is recognized on a one-quarter lag. The carrying value of our non-marketable equity securities is adjusted for qualifying observable price changes resulting from the issuance of similar or identical securities by the same issuer. Determining whether an observed transaction is similar to a security within our portfolio requires judgment based on the rights and preferences of the securities. Recording upward and downward adjustments to the carrying value of our equity securities as a result of observable price changes requires quantitative assessments of the fair value of our securities using various valuation methodologies and involves the use of estimates. Non-marketable equity securities and equity method investments are also subject to periodic impairment reviews. Our quarterly impairment analysis considers both qualitative and quantitative factors that may have a significant impact on the investee's fair value. Qualitative factors considered include industry and market conditions, the financial performance and near-term prospects of the investee, and other relevant events and factors affecting the investee. When indicators of impairment exist, we prepare quantitative assessments of the fair value of our equity investments using both the market and income approaches which require judgment and the use of estimates, including discount rates, investee revenues and costs, and comparable market data of private and public companies, among others. Prior to fiscal 2018, non-marketable equity securities were tested for impairment using the other-than-temporary impairment model which considered the severity and duration of a decline in fair value below cost and our ability and intent to hold the investment for a sufficient period of time to allow for recovery. The standard requires a modified retrospective adoption. We can choose to apply the provisions at the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented in the financial statements or at the beginning of the period of adoption. The standard requires adoption either retrospectively or prospectively. A platform product may be enhanced by additional hardware, software, and services offered by Intel. Platform products are used in various form factors across our CCG, DCG, and IOTG operating segments. We derive a substantial majority of our revenue from platform products, which are our principal products and considered as one class of product. CCG and DCG are our reportable operating segments. IOTG, NSG, and PSG do not meet the quantitative thresholds to qualify as reportable operating segments; however, we have elected to disclose the results of these non-reportable operating segments. Operating segments do not record inter-segment revenue. We do not allocate gains and losses from equity investments, interest and other income, or taxes to operating segments. Although the CODM uses operating income to evaluate the segments, operating costs included in one segment may benefit other segments. We computed diluted earnings per share of common stock based on the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding plus potentially dilutive shares of common stock outstanding during the period. In December 2017, we paid cash to satisfy the conversion of our 2035 debentures, which we excluded from our dilutive earnings per share computation starting in the fourth quarter of 2017 and are no longer dilutive. Our 2039 debentures require settlement of the principal amount of the debt in cash upon conversion. Since the conversion premium is paid in cash or stock at our option, we determined the potentially dilutive shares of common stock by applying the treasury stock method. For the nine months ended September 29, 2018, we paid cash to satisfy the conversion of a portion of our 2039 debentures. The potentially dilutive shares associated with the converted portion are excluded from our diluted earnings per share computation in 2018 as they are no longer dilutive. In all periods presented, potentially dilutive outstanding securities which would have been antidilutive are insignificant and are excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share. In all periods presented, we included our outstanding 2039 debentures in the calculation of diluted earnings per share of common stock because the average market price was above the conversion price. As new prepaid supply agreements are entered into and performance obligations are negotiated, this component of the contract liability balance will increase, and as customers purchase product and utilize their prepaid balances, the balance will decrease. The long-term supply agreements represent $4.8 billion in future anticipated revenues with 2% expected to be recognized during the fourth quarter of the year and the remainder ratably over the next five years. In the second quarter of 2018, we completed the divestiture of Wind River Systems, Inc. and recognized a pre-tax gain of $494 million. Our estimated annual effective tax rate for the first nine months of 2018 includes provisional tax estimates for certain Tax Reform provisions related to foreign-derived intangible income and low-taxed intangible income. Our accounting remains incomplete as of the third quarter of 2018. We could receive additional data and regulatory guidance during the fourth quarter of 2018 that may impact our provisional estimates.Our effective income tax rate was 10.3% in the first nine months of 2018 compared to 28.1% in the first nine months of 2017. Tax Reform reduced the U.S. statutory federal tax rate from 35.0% to 21.0%, which favorably impacted our effective tax rate in the first nine months of 2018 by approximately nine percentage points. Further, the Tax Reform provisions related to foreign-derived intangible income favorably impacted our effective tax rate by approximately four percentage points, and the provision related to low-taxed intangible income and the repeal of the domestic manufacturing deduction each unfavorably impacted our effective tax rate by approximately one percentage point. Financial institution instruments include instruments issued or managed by financial institutions in various forms such as commercial paper, fixed and floating rate bonds, money market fund deposits, and time deposits. During the second quarter of 2017, we determined we had an other-than-temporary decline in the fair value of our investment and recognized an impairment charge of $278 million. During 2015, we invested $966 million to complete the first phase of the equity investment and accounted for our interest using the cost method of accounting. IMFT is an unconsolidated variable interest entity and all costs of IMFT are passed on to Micron and Intel through sale of products or services in proportional share of ownership. As of September 29, 2018, we own a 49% interest in IMFT. The MDF balance may be converted to a capital contribution at our request, or may be repaid upon availability of funds. The IMFT operating agreement continues through 2024 unless terminated earlier, and provides for certain buy-sell rights of the joint venture. Intel has the right to cause Micron to buy our interest in IMFT and, if exercised, Micron could elect to receive financing from us for one to two years. Commencing in January 2019, Micron has the right to call our interest in IMFT. Technology development beyond the second generation of 3D XPoint technology will be pursued independently by the two companies in order to optimize the technology for their respective product and business needs. Intel continues to purchase jointly developed products from Micron under certain supply agreements. On October 18, 2018, Micron publicly announced their intent to exercise the right to call our interest in IMFT. The timeline to close the transaction is between six and twelve months after the date Micron exercises the call. Following the closing date, we will continue to receive supply for a period of one year. We recognized an impairment charge of $290 million during the third quarter of 2018. The bonds are our unsecured general obligations in accordance with loan agreements we entered into with the Industrial Development Authority of the City of Chandler, Arizona and the State of Oregon Business Development Commission. The bonds mature between 2035 and 2040 and carry interest rates of 2.4% - 2.7%. Level 2 investments consist primarily of commercial paper, certificates of deposit, time deposits, and notes and bonds issued by financial institutions.2 Level 1 investments consist primarily of U.S. Treasury securities. If an observable price adjustment or impairment is recognized on our non-marketable equity securities during the period, we classify these assets as Level 3 within the fair value hierarchy based on the nature of the fair value inputs. These assets were classified as Level 3 within the fair value hierarchy based on the nature of the fair value inputs. These liabilities are classified as Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy based on the nature of the fair value inputs. Substantially all of our cash flow hedges were foreign currency contracts for all periods presented.During the first nine months of 2018 and 2017, the amounts excluded from effectiveness testing were insignificant. Our plans include our 2006 Equity Incentive Plan and our 2006 Stock Purchase Plan. The grant-date fair value of awards that vested in the first nine months of 2018 was $1.1 billion. The number of RSUs vested includes shares of common stock that we withheld on behalf of employees to satisfy the minimum statutory tax withholding requirements. STOCK PURCHASE PLANThe 2006 Stock Purchase Plan allows eligible employees to purchase shares of our common stock at 85% of the value of our common stock on specific dates. Rights to purchase shares of common stock are granted during the first and third quarters of each year. Although management at present believes that the ultimate outcome of these proceedings, individually and in the aggregate, will not materially harm our financial position, results of operations, cash flows, or overall trends, legal proceedings and related government investigations are subject to inherent uncertainties, and unfavorable rulings or other events could occur. Unfavorable resolutions could include substantial monetary damages. In addition, in matters for which injunctive relief or other conduct remedies are sought, unfavorable resolutions could include an injunction or other order prohibiting us from selling one or more products at all or in particular ways, precluding particular business practices, or requiring other remedies. An unfavorable outcome may result in a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial position, and overall trends. We might also conclude that settling one or more such matters is in the best interests of our stockholders, employees, and customers, and any such settlement could include substantial payments. We received numerous requests for information and documents from the EC and we responded to each of those requests. The EC issued a Statement of Objections in July 2007 and held a hearing on that Statement in March 2008. The EC issued a Supplemental Statement of Objections in July 2008. In May 2009, the EC issued a decision finding that we had violated Article 82 of the EC Treaty and Article 54 of the European Economic Area Agreement. The EC also found that we violated Article 82 by making alleged "payments to prevent sales of specific rival products." Instead, the decision stated that we should "cease and desist" from further conduct that, in the EC's opinion, would violate applicable law. We took steps, which are subject to the EC's ongoing review, to comply with that decision pending appeal. The hearing of our appeal took place in July 2012. In June 2014, the General Court rejected our appeal in its entirety. In August 2014, we filed an appeal with the European Court of Justice. In November 2014, Intervener Association for Competitive Technologies filed comments in support of Intel’s grounds of appeal. The EC and interveners filed briefs in November 2014, we filed a reply in February 2015, and the EC filed a rejoinder in April 2015. The Court of Justice held oral argument in June 2016. In October 2016, Advocate General Wahl, an advisor to the Court of Justice, issued a non-binding advisory opinion that favored Intel on a number of grounds. The Court of Justice issued its decision in September 2017, setting aside the judgment of the General Court and sending the case back to the General Court to examine whether the rebates at issue were capable of restricting competition. The General Court has appointed a panel of five judges to consider our appeal of the EC’s 2009 decision in light of the Court of Justice’s clarifications of the law. In November 2017, the parties filed initial “Observations” about the Court of Justice’s decision and the appeal, and were invited by the General Court to offer supplemental comments to each other’s “Observations,” which the parties submitted in March 2018. Responses to other questions posed by the General Court were filed in May and June 2018. We are now awaiting notice whether the General Court will hold a management conference before it conducts oral argument, at some future date. The complaint alleges that the defendants breached their duties to the company by participating in, or allowing, purported antitrust violations that were alleged in a now-settled antitrust class action lawsuit captioned In re High Tech Employee Antitrust Litigation claiming that Intel, Adobe Systems Incorporated, Apple Inc., Google Inc., Intuit Inc., Lucasfilm Ltd., and Pixar conspired to suppress their employees’ compensation. In March 2014, a second plaintiff, Barbara Templeton, filed a substantially similar derivative suit in the same court. In May 2014, a third shareholder, Robert Achermann, filed a substantially similar derivative action in the same court. The court consolidated the three actions into one, which is captioned In re Intel Corporation Shareholder Derivative Litigation. Plaintiffs filed a consolidated complaint in July 2014. In August 2015, the court granted our motion to dismiss the consolidated complaint. The plaintiffs thereafter filed a motion for reconsideration and a motion for new trial, both of which the court denied in October 2015. In November 2015, plaintiffs PRSSL and Templeton appealed the court's decision. The lawsuit makes allegations substantially similar to those in the California shareholder derivative litigation described above, but additionally alleges breach of the duty of disclosure with respect to In re High Tech Employee Antitrust Litigation and that Intel's 2013 and 2014 proxy statements misrepresented the effectiveness of the Board’s oversight of compliance issues at Intel and the Board’s compliance with Intel’s Code of Conduct and Board of Director Guidelines on Significant Corporate Governance Issues. In October 2015, the court stayed the IBEW lawsuit for six months pending further developments in the California case. In March 2016, Intel and IBEW entered into a stipulated dismissal pursuant to which IBEW dismissed its complaint without prejudice.McAfee, Inc. Four McAfee shareholders filed putative class-action lawsuits in Santa Clara County, California Superior Court challenging the proposed transaction. The cases were ordered consolidated in September 2010. Plaintiffs filed an amended complaint that named former McAfee board members, McAfee, and Intel as defendants, and alleged that the McAfee board members breached their fiduciary duties and that McAfee and Intel aided and abetted those breaches of duty. The complaint requested rescission of the merger agreement, such other equitable relief as the court may deem proper, and an award of damages in an unspecified amount. In June 2012, the plaintiffs’ damages expert asserted that the value of a McAfee share for the purposes of assessing damages should be $62.08.In January 2012, the court certified the action as a class action, appointed the Central Pension Laborers’ Fund to act as the class representative, and scheduled trial to begin in January 2013. In March 2012, defendants filed a petition with the California Court of Appeal for a writ of mandate to reverse the class certification order; the petition was denied in June 2012. In March 2012, at defendants’ request, the court held that plaintiffs were not entitled to a jury trial and ordered a bench trial. In April 2012, plaintiffs filed a petition with the California Court of Appeal for a writ of mandate to reverse that order, which the court of appeal denied in July 2012. In August 2012, defendants filed a motion for summary judgment. The trial court granted that motion in November 2012, and entered final judgment in the case in February 2013. In April 2013, plaintiffs appealed the final judgment. The California Court of Appeal heard oral argument in October 2017, and in November 2017, affirmed the judgment as to McAfee's nine outside directors, reversed the judgment as to former McAfee director and chief executive officer David DeWalt, Intel, and McAfee, and affirmed the trial court's ruling that the plaintiffs are not entitled to a jury trial. At a June 2018 case management conference following remand, the Superior Court set an October hearing date for any additional summary judgment motions that may be filed, and set trial to begin in December 2018. In July 2018, plaintiffs filed a motion for leave to amend the complaint which the court denied in September 2018. Also in July 2018, McAfee and Intel filed a motion for summary judgment on the aiding and abetting claims asserted against them; in October 2018, the court granted the motion as to McAfee and denied the motion as to Intel. Because the resolution of pretrial motions may materially impact the scope and nature of the proceeding, and because of uncertainties regarding the disposition of theories that may be asserted at trial and the extent of Intel's responsibility, if any, with respect to such claims, we are unable to make a reasonable estimate of the potential loss or range of losses, if any, arising from this matter. As is standard when findings like these are presented, we worked together with other companies in the industry to verify the research and develop and validate software and firmware updates for impacted technologies. On January 3, 2018, information on the security vulnerabilities was publicly reported, before software and firmware updates to address the vulnerabilities were made widely available. Of the consumer class action lawsuits, 43 have been filed in the United States, two in Canada, and two in Israel. In April 2018, the United States Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation ordered the U.S. consumer class action lawsuits consolidated for pretrial proceedings in the United States District Court for the District of Oregon. Intel filed a motion to dismiss that consolidated action in October 2018, and a hearing on that motion has been scheduled for February 2019. There has been no activity in the case pending in the Superior Court of Justice of Ontario, and in October 2018 the Superior Court of Justice of Quebec entered an order staying the case pending in that court for one year. In Israel, both consumer class action lawsuits were filed in the District Court of Haifa. The Supreme Court of Israel stayed the first case pending disposition of an appeal by one of Intel’s co-defendants of an order by the District Court of Haifa. Intel filed a motion to stay the second case, which is scheduled for hearing in November 2018. In the securities class action litigation, the lead securities class action plaintiffs, who purport to represent classes of acquirers of Intel stock between October 27, 2017 and January 9, 2018, generally allege that Intel and certain officers violated securities laws by making statements about Intel's products that were revealed to be false or misleading by the disclosure of the security vulnerabilities. The securities class actions have been consolidated and are pending in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California. Defendants moved to dismiss those actions on various grounds, and a hearing on that motion has been scheduled for November 2018. Additional lawsuits and claims may be asserted on behalf of customers and shareholders seeking monetary damages or other related relief. We dispute the claims described above and intend to defend the lawsuits vigorously. Given the procedural posture and the nature of these cases, including that the proceedings are in the early stages, that alleged damages have not been specified, that uncertainty exists as to the likelihood of a class or classes being certified or the ultimate size of any class or classes if certified, and that there are significant factual and legal issues to be resolved, we are unable to make a reasonable estimate of the potential loss or range of losses, if any, that might arise from these matters.In addition to these lawsuits, Intel stockholders have filed seven shareholder derivative lawsuits since January 2018 against certain current and former members of our Board of Directors and certain current and former officers, alleging that the defendants breached their duties to Intel in connection with the disclosure of the security vulnerabilities and the failure to take action in relation to alleged insider trading. The complaints seek to recover damages from the defendants on behalf of Intel. Three of the derivative actions were filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California and have been consolidated, and the other four were filed in the Superior Court of the State of California in San Mateo County and have been consolidated. In August 2018, the federal court granted defendants' motion to dismiss the consolidated complaint on the ground that plaintiffs failed to plead facts sufficient to show they were excused from making a pre-lawsuit demand on the Board. The federal court granted plaintiffs leave to amend their complaint, but in September 2018, plaintiffs instead requested that the action be voluntarily dismissed. Defendants and plaintiffs disagree whether the dismissal should be with or without prejudice, and are awaiting the court’s decision on that issue. In August 2018, the California Superior Court granted defendants' motion to dismiss the consolidated complaint in the action on the ground that plaintiffs failed to plead facts sufficient to show they were excused from making a pre-lawsuit demand on the Board. The state court granted plaintiffs leave to amend their complaint, and the parties have stipulated that plaintiffs must file any amended complaint by February 2019. Strong business performance, operating margin leverage, and lower tax rate resulted in net income of $6.4 billion in the third quarter. From a capital allocation perspective, in the first nine months we generated $22.5 billion of cash flow from operations and returned $12.6 billion to shareholders, including $4.2 billion in dividends and $8.5 billion in buybacks. For a more comprehensive overview of the results of our operations, see "A Quarter in Review." The increase in revenue was driven by strong performance across all businesses. Our data-centric businesses collectively grew 22% year over year and our PC-centric business also grew 16%. YTD 2018 vs. YTD 2017Our YTD 2018 revenue was $52.2 billion, up $6.5 billion, or 14% from YTD 2017. We are executing to our strategy of growing data-centric businesses, which collectively grew revenue by 21% in the first nine months of 2018 compared to the first nine months of 2017. Our PC-centric business also grew 9%. Our overall gross margin dollars in Q3 2018 increased by $2.3 billion compared to Q3 2017. We had heightened demand for data intensive workloads and macroeconomic momentum in cloud, improved market conditions in enterprise and government, and increased market segment share with communication service providers. These market-driven solutions utilize silicon and software assets from our data center and client businesses to expand our compute footprint into Internet of Things market segments. The increase in revenue was partially offset by $105 million lower adjacent revenue primarily due to our divestiture of Wind River in Q2 2018, which negatively impacted the revenue comparison by approximately $75 million. Operating income was $321 million, up $175 million, primarily driven by higher revenue.YTD 2018 vs. YTD 2017Net revenue was $2.6 billion, up $349 million, driven primarily by $612 million higher IOTG platform unit sales, partially offset by $219 million lower IOTG platform ASPs. Revenue grew due to strength across the retail, industrial, and other market segments. Operating income was $791 million, up $401 million driven by higher revenue and lower spending as autonomous driving investment shifted to other businesses. The primary customers are enterprise and cloud-based data centers, users of business and consumer desktops and laptops, and a variety of embedded and Internet of Things application providers. NSG REVENUE NSG OPERATING INCOMERevenue and Operating Income SummaryQ3 2018 vs. Q3 2017Net revenue was $1.1 billion, up $190 million, driven by $686 million higher unit sales due to strong demand in data center and the growth of component and Intel Optane technology products, offset by $497 million lower ASP due to market condition and mix of products. YTD 2018 vs. YTD 2017Net revenue was $3.2 billion, up $569 million, driven by $1.9 billion higher unit sales due to continued demand in data center and the growth of component and Intel Optane technology products, offset by $1.4 billion lower ASP due to market condition and mix of products. In addition, we had a total of $160 million earned government grants benefiting Q3 2018. Operating income was $106 million, down $7 million. YTD 2018 vs. YTD 2017PSG revenue was $1.5 billion, up $177 million, driven by strength in the data center and embedded market segments as well as last-time buys of our legacy products and growth of our advanced products. Operating income was $304 million, roughly flat year over year. We recognized $944 million of net realized gains on sales in Q3 2017 and $2.0 billion in the first nine months of 2017, primarily related to sales of a portion of our interest in ASML. The net realized gains were partially offset by $613 million of impairment charges and our share of equity method investee losses for the first nine months of 2017.Interest and other, netWe recognized a net gain for the first nine months of 2018 primarily due to a $494 million gain on the divestiture of Wind River in Q2 2018. Tax Reform reduced the U.S. statutory federal tax rate from 35.0% to 21.0%, which favorably impacted our effective tax rate in the first nine months of 2018 by approximately nine percentage points. Further, the Tax Reform provisions related to foreign-derived intangible income favorably impacted our effective tax rate by approximately four percentage points, and the provision related to low-taxed intangible income and the repeal of the domestic manufacturing deduction each unfavorably impacted our effective tax rate by approximately one percentage point. We maintain a diverse investment portfolio that we continually analyze based on issuer, industry, and country. When assessing our sources of liquidity we include investments as shown in the preceding table. Substantially all of our investments in debt instruments and financing receivables are in investment-grade securities.Other potential sources of liquidity include our commercial paper program and our automatic shelf registration statement on file with the SEC, pursuant to which we may offer an unspecified amount of debt, equity, and other securities. Under our commercial paper program, we have an ongoing authorization from our Board of Directors to borrow up to $10.0 billion. As of September 29, 2018, $1.7 billion of commercial paper remained outstanding.We believe we have sufficient financial resources to meet our business requirements in the next 12 months, including capital expenditures for worldwide manufacturing and assembly and test; working capital requirements; and potential dividends, common stock repurchases, acquisitions, and strategic investments. Financing ActivitiesFinancing cash flows consist primarily of repurchases of common stock, payment of dividends to stockholders, issuance and repayment of short-term and long-term debt, and proceeds from the sale of shares of common stock through employee equity incentive plans.Cash used for financing activities was higher in the first nine months of 2018 compared to the first nine months of 2017 primarily due to decreased long-term debt issuance and increased repurchases of common stock. The cash used for financing activities was partially offset by increases in commercial paper. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISKWe are affected by changes in currency exchange and interest rates, as well as equity and commodity prices. These risk factors do not identify all risks that we face—our operations could also be affected by factors that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial to our operations. Due to risks and uncertainties, known and unknown, our past financial results may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. A control system, no matter how well-designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. The design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Further, because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that misstatements due to error or fraud will not occur or that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, have been detected. The design of any system of controls is based in part on certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of controls to future periods are subject to risks. Over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures.NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURESWe believe non-GAAP financial measures provide investors with useful supplemental information about the financial performance of our business, enable comparison of financial results between periods where certain items may vary independent of business performance, and allow for greater transparency with respect to key metrics used by management in operating our business and measuring our performance. Our non-GAAP operating income and diluted earnings per share reflect adjustments for the following items, as well as the related income tax effects. Income tax effects have been calculated using an appropriate tax rate for each adjustment. These non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP, and the financial results calculated in accordance with GAAP and reconciliations from these results should be carefully evaluated. The fair value of inventory reflects the acquired company's cost of manufacturing plus a portion of the expected profit margin. The non-GAAP adjustments to our cost of sales exclude the expected profit margin component that is recorded under business combination accounting principles associated with our acquisition of Mobileye. We believe the adjustments are useful to investors as an additional means to reflect cost of sales and gross margin trends of our business. We record charges related to the amortization of these intangibles within both cost of sales and operating expenses in our GAAP financial statements. Amortization charges for our acquisition-related intangible assets are inconsistent in size and are significantly impacted by the timing and valuation of our acquisitions. These charges primarily include bankers' fees, compensation-related costs, and valuation charges for stock-based compensation incurred related to the acquisition. We believe these adjustments are useful to investors as an additional means to reflect the spending trends of our business. Restructuring and other chargesRestructuring charges are costs associated with a formal restructuring plan and are primarily related to employee severance and benefit arrangements. Other charges include asset impairments, pension charges, and costs associated with the ISecG divestiture. We exclude restructuring and other charges, including any adjustments to charges recorded in prior periods, for purposes of calculating certain non-GAAP measures. We believe that these costs do not reflect our current operating performance. Consequently, our non-GAAP adjustments exclude these charges to facilitate an evaluation of our current operating performance and comparisons to our past operating performance. Ongoing mark to market on marketable equity securitiesWe exclude gains and losses resulting from ongoing mark to market adjustments of our marketable equity securities when calculating certain non-GAAP measures, as we do not believe this volatility correlates to our core operational performance. Consequently, our non-GAAP earnings per share figures exclude these impacts to facilitate an evaluation of our current performance and comparisons to our past operating performance.Tax Reform adjustment During 2018, we made adjustments to our Tax Reform provisional tax estimates that we recorded in Q4 2017. We exclude these provisional tax adjustments when calculating certain non-GAAP measures. In our consolidated condensed financial statements, we treat shares of common stock withheld for tax purposes on behalf of our employees in connection with the vesting of RSUs as common stock repurchases because they reduce the number of shares that would have been issued upon vesting. Mine Safety DisclosuresNot applicableItem 5. OTHER KEY INFORMATION 44Table of ContentsSIGNATURESPursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.