See the definitions of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer," "smaller reporting company," and "emerging growth company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. Financial Information1Item 1. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations18Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk26Item 4. Controls and Procedures28Part II. Other Information29Item 1. Legal Proceedings29Item 1A. Risk Factors29Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds29Item 3. Defaults Upon Senior Securities29Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures29Item 5. Other Information29Item 6. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIESBasis of Presentation — The accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements have been prepared by IPG Photonics Corporation, or "IPG", "its" or the "Company". The consolidated financial statements include the Company's accounts and those of its subsidiaries. All intercompany balances have been eliminated in consolidation. These consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.In the opinion of the Company's management, the unaudited financial information for the interim periods presented reflects all adjustments necessary for a fair presentation of the Company's financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The results reported in these consolidated financial statements are not necessarily indicative of results that may be expected for the entire year.The Company has evaluated subsequent events through the time of filing this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q with the SEC. Revenue Recognition — Revenue is recognized when transfer of control to the customer occurs in an amount reflecting the consideration that the Company expects to be entitled. For each contract, the Company considers the promise to transfer products, each of which is distinct as the identified performance obligations. In determining the transaction price, the Company evaluates whether the price is subject to refund or adjustment to determine the net consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled. As the Company's standard payment terms are less than one year, the Company has elected the practical expedient under ASC 606-10-32-18 to not assess whether a contract has a significant financing component. The Company allocates the transaction price to each distinct product based on its relative standalone selling price. The Company allocates the transaction price of the contract to each delivery based on the product standalone selling price. The Company invoices for each scheduled delivery upon shipment and recognizes revenues for such delivery at that point, assuming transfer of control has occurred. As scheduled delivery dates are generally within one year, under the optional exemption provided by ASC 606-10-50-14 revenues allocated to future shipments of partially completed contracts are not disclosed.Rights of return generally are not included in customer contracts. Accordingly, upon application of steps one through five above, product revenue is recognized upon shipment and transfer of control. Returns are infrequent and are recorded as a reduction of revenue.In certain subsidiaries the Company provides sales commissions to sales representatives based on sales volume. The Company has determined that the incentive portion of its sales commissions qualify as contract costs. The Company has elected the practical expedient in ASC 340-40-25-4 to expense sales commissions when incurred as the amortization period of the asset that would otherwise have been recognized is one year or less.Revenue Recognition at a Point in Time — Revenues recognized at a point in time consist primarily of product, installation and service sales. The Company recognizes revenue for laser and spare part sales following the transfer of control of such products to the customer, which typically occurs upon shipment or delivery depending on the terms of the underlying contracts. Installation revenue is recognized upon completion of the installation service, which typically occurs within 90 days of delivery. For laser systems that carry customer specific processing requirements, revenue is recognized at the latter of customer acceptance date or shipment date if the customer acceptance is made prior to shipment. Warranties are limited and provide that the product meets specifications and is free from defects in materials and workmanship. Extended warranties are sold separately from products and represent a distinct performance obligation. Revenue related to the performance obligation for extended warranties is recognized over time as the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits provided by the Company. The customer receives the assurance that the product will operate in accordance with agreed-upon specifications evenly during the extended warranty period regardless of whether they make a claim during that period, and therefore, revenue at time of sale is deferred and recognized over the time period of the extended warranty period.Customer Deposits and Deferred Revenue — When the Company receives consideration from a customer or such consideration is unconditionally due prior to transferring goods or services under the terms of a sales contract, the Company records customer deposits or deferred revenue, which represent contract liabilities. The Company recognizes deferred revenue as net sales after control of the goods or services has been transferred to the customer and all revenue recognition criteria are met.2. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTSAdopted Pronouncements — On January 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASC 606 and all related amendments using the modified retrospective method for contracts that were not completed as of the date of initial application. The Company recognized the cumulative effect of initially applying the new revenue standard as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings. The comparative information has not been restated and continues to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for those periods. The Company expects the impact of the adoption of the new standard to be immaterial to net income on an ongoing basis.A majority of revenue continues to be recognized at a point in time when control transfers based on the terms of underlying contact. Under the new revenue standard, the Company changed from deferring revenue for installation services in an amount equal to the greater of the cash received related to installation or the fair value to deferring the standalone selling price for these services.In February 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. The Company adopted this standard during the first quarter of 2018, which resulted in the reclassification of $10 related to the tax effect of unrealized gains on derivatives.In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. The amendments have been applied on a modified retrospective basis through a cumulative effect adjustment to retained earnings. ASU 2017-04 simplifies the accounting for goodwill impairments by eliminating step 2 from the goodwill impairment test. The amendments are applied prospectively upon adoption. The Company early adopted this standard during the first quarter of 2018. The Company performs its annual goodwill impairment assessment on October 1 of each year. The new impairment test will be used in the annual assessment or if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable and an impairment analysis is performed.Other Pronouncements Currently Under Evaluation — In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. ASU 2016-02 requires a lessee to recognize assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for leases with lease terms greater than twelve months. ASU 2016-02 is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2018, and early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently reviewing its population of leases, implementing a software solution to assist with lease accounting, and evaluating footnote disclosures.In June 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. ASU 2018-07 aligns the accounting for share-based payments issued to employees and non-employees. ASU 2018-07 is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2018, and early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the standard but does not expect that it will have a material effect on its consolidated financial statements upon adoption.3. Under the new revenue standard, the standalone selling price for installation services is deferred until control has transferred. The standalone selling price for installation services is determined based on the estimated number of days of service technician time required for installation at standard service rates. The impact of applying ASC 606 was a decrease in revenue recognized during the three months ended June 30, 2018 of $6 and a decrease for the six months ended June 30, 2018 of $39 as compared to revenue accounted for under ASC 605.The Company enters into contracts to sell lasers and spare parts, for which revenue is generally recognized upon shipment or delivery, depending on the terms of the contract. The Company also provides installation services and extended warranties. The Company frequently receives consideration from a customer prior to transferring goods to the customer under the terms of a sales contract. The Company records customer deposits related to these prepayments, which represent a contract liability. The Company also records deferred revenue related to installation services when consideration is received before the services have been performed. The Company recognizes customer deposits and deferred revenue as net sales after control of the goods or services has been transferred to the customer and all revenue recognition criteria is met. The Company bills customers for extended warranties upon entering into the agreement with the customer, resulting in deferred revenue. Revenue is recognized ratably over the term of the extended warranty agreement as the customer receives and consumes the benefits of such services. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTSThe Company's financial instruments consist of cash equivalents, short-term and long-term investments, accounts receivable, accounts payable, drawings on revolving lines of credit, long-term debt, contingent purchase consideration, an interest rate swap and a foreign currency hedge.The valuation techniques used to measure fair value are based upon observable and unobservable inputs. Observable inputs reflect market data obtained from independent sources, while unobservable inputs reflect internal market assumptions. The Company's bond securities are reported at fair value based upon quoted prices for instruments with identical terms in active markets. The Company's commercial paper securities reported at fair value are based upon model-driven valuations in which all significant inputs are observable or can be derived from or corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the asset or liability, and are therefore classified as Level 2. At June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the Company's long-term debt consisted of a variable rate long-term note and a fixed rate long-term note. The fair value of the long-term investments considered held-to-maturity as of June 30, 2018 was $26,759, which represented an unrealized gain of $132, as compared to the book value of $26,627 recorded within Other Assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets for the same period. The fair value of contingent purchase consideration was determined using an income approach at the respective business combination date and at the reporting date. These provisions relate to the recoverability of the value of inventories due to technological changes and excess quantities. RC is located near Munich, Germany and is an integrator of laser-based systems. The Company paid $4,453 to acquire RC, which represents the fair value on that date. Any excess of the acquisition consideration over the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed is allocated to goodwill, which amounted to $4,230. The goodwill arising from the acquisition will not be deductible for tax purposes. The purchase price allocations included in the Company's financial statements are not complete. They represent the preliminary fair value estimates as of June 30, 2018 and are subject to subsequent adjustment as the Company obtains additional information during the measurement period and finalizes its fair value estimates. Any subsequent adjustments to these fair value estimates occurring during the measurement period will result in an adjustment to intangibles, goodwill or income, as applicable. Amortization expense for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 was $1,908 and $1,168, respectively. Amortization for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 was $3,839 and $2,233, respectively. PRODUCT WARRANTIESThe Company typically provides one to three-year parts and service warranties on lasers and amplifiers. Most of the Company's sales offices provide support to customers in their respective geographic areas. Warranty reserves have generally been sufficient to cover product warranty repair and replacement costs. The following table summarizes product warranty accrual activity recorded during the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017. The interest on this unsecured long-term note is variable at 1.20% above LIBOR and is fixed using an interest rate swap at 2.85% per annum. The unsecured long-term note matures in May 2023, at which time the outstanding principal balance will be $15,438. Also at June 30, 2018, the Company has another long-term note that is secured by its corporate aircraft with a outstanding principal balance of $25,813 of which $2,449 is the current portion. The interest on this collateralized long-term note is fixed at 2.74% per annum. The collateralized long-term note matures in July 2022, at which time the outstanding principal balance will be $15,375.The Company also maintains U.S. and Euro lines-of-credit which are available to certain foreign subsidiaries and allow for borrowings in the local currencies of those subsidiaries. At June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, there were no amounts drawn on the U.S. line-of-credit, and there were $398 and $520, respectively, of guarantees issued against the facility which reduce the amount of the facility available to draw. At June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, there were no amounts drawn on the Euro lines-of-credit, and there were $567 and $798, respectively, of guarantees issued against those facilities which reduce the amount available to draw. After providing for the guarantees used, the total unused credit lines and overdraft facilities are $109,616 at June 30, 2018. 10. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTSDerivative instruments – The Company's primary market exposures are to interest rates and foreign exchange rates. The Company from time to time may use certain derivative financial instruments to help manage these exposures. The Company executes these instruments with financial institutions it judges to be credit-worthy. The Company does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.The Company recognizes all derivative financial instruments as either assets or liabilities at fair value in the consolidated balance sheets. During the second quarter of 2018, the Company entered into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the value of intercompany dividends declared in Euros by the Company's German subsidiary. The dividends were partially paid in the second quarter, and the remaining will be paid during the third quarter of 2018. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIESFrom time to time, the Company may be involved in disputes and legal proceedings in the ordinary course of its business.These proceedings may include allegations of infringement of intellectual property, commercial disputes and employmentmatters. As of June 30, 2018 and through the filing date of these Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company has no legal proceedings ongoing that management estimates could have a material effect on the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements. 12. INCOME TAXESThe effective tax rates for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 were 25.6% and 26.5%, respectively. For the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, the effective tax rates were 25.4% and 26.3%, respectively. The reduction in the tax rate is primarily due to the reduction in the U.S. statutory tax rate to 21%, which was offset in part by the impact of other changes made in the U.S. tax legislation passed in December 2017. There were discrete tax benefits of $2,407 and $5,096 for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $8,907 and $9,047 for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The discrete items were primarily the result of stock-based compensation.The Company accounts for its uncertain tax return reporting positions in accordance with the accounting standards for income taxes. The Company continues to classify interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as a component of the provision for income taxes. As noted at year end, the Company was able to reasonably estimate certain effects and, therefore, recorded provisional adjustments associated with the deemed repatriation transition tax. The Company has not made any additional measurement-period adjustments related to these items during the quarter, however, the Company is continuing to gather additional information to complete its accounting for these items and expects to complete its accounting within the prescribed measurement period. For the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, the computation of diluted weighted average common shares excludes 90,300 and 95,400 common stock equivalents because the effect of including them would be anti-dilutive.The shares excluded for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, are comprised of 19,500 and 23,200 RSUs, 63,900 and 64,100 non-qualified stock options and 6,900 and 8,100 performance stock units. The Program limited aggregate share repurchases to no more than $100,000 over the period ended June 30, 2018. Under the Program, the Company's management was authorized to repurchase shares of common stock in an amount not to exceed the number of shares issued to employees and directors under its various employee and director equity compensation and employee stock purchase plans from January 1, 2016 through December 31, 2017. For the three months ended June 30, 2018, the Company repurchased 131,680 shares of its common stock with an average price of $235.37 per share in the open market. During the six months ended June 30, 2018, the Company repurchased a total of 214,578 shares of its common stock with an average price of $237.98 per share in the open market. 14. SUBSEQUENT EVENTSOn July 31, 2018, the Company announced that its Board of Directors authorized a new $125 million anti-dilutive stock repurchase program following the completion of its previous $100 million repurchase program. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following discussion in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. This discussion contains forward looking statements that are based on management's current expectations, estimates and projections about our business and operations. Our actual results may differ materially from those currently anticipated and expressed in such forward-looking statements. See "Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements. "OverviewWe develop and manufacture a broad line of high-performance fiber lasers, fiber amplifiers and diode lasers that are used in numerous applications, primarily in materials processing. In addition, we offer laser-based systems for certain markets and applications. We market our products internationally primarily through our direct sales force.We are vertically integrated such that we design and manufacture most of the key components used in our finished products, from semiconductor diodes to optical fiber preforms, finished fiber lasers and amplifiers. We also manufacture certain complementary products used with our lasers, including optical delivery cables, fiber couplers, beam switches, optical processing heads and chillers. Factors and Trends That Affect Our Operations and Financial Results In reading our financial statements, you should be aware of the following factors and trends that our management believes are important in understanding our financial performance.Net sales. We derive net sales primarily from the sale of fiber lasers and amplifiers. We also sell diode lasers, communications systems, laser systems and complementary products. We sell our products through our direct sales organization and our network of distributors and sales representatives, as well as system integrators. We sell our products to OEMs that supply materials processing laser systems, communications systems, medical laser systems and other laser systems for advanced applications to end users. We also sell our products to end users that build their own systems, which incorporate our products or use our products as an energy or light source. Our scientists and engineers work closely with OEMs, systems integrators and end users to analyze their system requirements and match appropriate fiber laser or amplifier specifications. Our sales cycle varies substantially, ranging from a period of a few weeks to as long as one year or more, but is typically several months. We consider customer purchase orders, which in some cases are governed by master sales agreements, to be the contracts with a customer. The majority of our revenue is recognized at a point in time following the transfer of control of products or services to the customer, which typically occurs upon shipment or delivery depending on the terms of the underlying contracts.We develop our products to standard specifications and use a common set of components within our product architectures. Our major products are based upon a common technology platform. We continually enhance these and other products by improving their components and developing new components and new product designs. The average selling prices of our products generally decrease as the products mature. These decreases result from factors such as decreased manufacturing costs and increases in unit volumes, increased competition, the introduction of new products and market share considerations. In the past, we have lowered our selling prices in order to penetrate new markets and applications. Furthermore, we may negotiate discounted selling prices from time to time with certain customers that purchase multiple units.Gross margin. Our total gross margin can be significantly affected by total net sales in any period, by product mix, that is, the percentage of our revenue in the period that is attributable to higher or lower power products and the mix of sales between laser and amplifier sources and complete systems, by sales mix between OEM customers who purchase devices from us in high unit volumes and other customers, by mix of sales in different geographies and by other factors, some of which are not under our control.Within each of our product categories, lasers with a higher average power generally have a higher gross margin; higher power lasers use a greater number of optical components, improving absorption of fixed overhead costs and enabling economies of scale in manufacturing. In addition, certain specialty products have a gross margin which is above our corporate average while the profit margins on some systems can be lower than margins for our laser and amplifier sources, depending on the configuration, volume and competitive forces, among other factors.18Table of ContentsThe mix of sales between OEM customers and other customers can affect gross margin because we provide sales price discounts on products based on the number of units ordered. As the number of OEM customers increase and the number of units ordered increases, the average sales price per unit will be reduced. We expect that the impact of reduced sales price per unit will be offset by the manufacturing efficiency provided by high unit volume orders, but the timing and extent of achieving these efficiencies may not always match the mix of sales in any given time period or be realized at all.Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates can affect gross margin. Generally, when the U.S. Dollar weakens as compared to the Euro, Chinese Yuan or other foreign currencies in which our product is sold, it will benefit gross margin. When the U.S. dollar strengthens as compared to foreign currencies in which our product is sold, it will be a detriment to gross margin.We also regularly review our inventory for items that are slow-moving, have been rendered obsolete or determined to be excess. Any provision for such slow-moving, obsolete or excess inventory affects our gross margins. For example, we recorded provisions for slow-moving, obsolete or excess inventory totaling $3.5 million and $5.4 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $16.9 million, $22.8 million and $15.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.Sales and marketing expense. We expect to continue to expand our worldwide direct sales organization, build and expand applications centers, hire additional sales and marketing personnel at our existing and new geographic locations as well as to support sales of new product lines, increase the number of units for demonstration purposes and otherwise increase expenditures on sales and marketing activities in order to support the growth in our net sales. As such, we expect that our sales and marketing expenses will increase in the aggregate.Research and development expense. We plan to continue to invest in research and development to improve our existing components and products and develop new components, products, systems and applications technology. The amount of research and development expense we incur may vary from period to period. In general, if net sales continue to increase we expect research and development expense to increase in the aggregate.General and administrative expense. We expect our general and administrative expenses to increase as we continue to invest in systems and resources in management, finance, legal, information technology, human resources and administration to support our worldwide operations. Legal expenses vary from quarter to quarter based primarily upon the level of litigation and transaction activities.Foreign Exchange. Because we are a U.S. based company doing business globally, we have both translational and transactional exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Changes in the relative exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the foreign currencies in which our subsidiaries operate directly affects our sales, costs and earnings. Certain currencies experiencing significant exchange rate fluctuations like the Euro, the Russian Ruble, the Japanese Yen and Chinese Yuan have had and could have an additional significant impact on our sales, costs and earnings. Our ability to adjust the foreign currency selling prices of products in response to changes in exchange rates is limited and may not offset the impact of the changes in exchange rates on the translated value of sales or costs. In addition, if we increase the selling price of our products in local currencies, this could have a negative impact on the demand for our products.Major customers. While we have historically depended on a few customers for a large percentage of our annual net sales, the composition of this group can change from year to year. Net sales derived from our five largest customers as a percentage of our net sales was 28% for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 28%, 22% and 25% for the full years 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. One of our customers accounted for 13% and 15% of our net sales for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017. We seek to add new customers and to expand our relationships with existing customers. We anticipate that the composition of our significant customers will continue to change. If any of our significant customers substantially reduced their purchases from us, our results would be adversely affected.Results of Operations for the three months ended June 30, 2018 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2017Net sales. The demand for cutting is being driven by an accelerated replacement cycle of CO2 laser-based cutting systems and displacement on non-laser machine tools such as punch-press machines. Within cutting applications, we continue to see a migration to lasers with higher output powers, which improve processing speeds and enable processing of thicker materials. The shift towards lasers with higher output powers has also benefited sales due to their higher average selling prices. Sales of high power lasers used in sintering and 3D printing applications also increased. The growth in high power lasers used in cutting applications was partially offset by a decline in high power lasers used in welding applications including automotive and battery welding.•The decrease in medium power sales related to fine cutting applications which is partially attributable to a move to kilowatt scale high power lasers for these applications. The decrease in sales related to fine cutting applications was partially offset by an increase in laser sintering and 3D printing applications and welding applications. Based upon the strong sales for laser sintering and 3D printing applications in the first half of 2018, we expect shipments for the remainder of the year to be at reduced levels.•Pulsed laser sales were relatively flat as the demand for marking and engraving application sales decreased, which was offset by the growth in sales of our newer green pulsed lasers for solar cell manufacturing applications.•QCW laser sales decreased due to the expected reduction in demand related to the consumer electronics investment cycle.•Materials processing sales also increased as a result of higher laser systems, accessories including beam delivery, and parts and service sales, which are included in Other Revenue in the Sales by Product table above. The increase in laser systems sales was driven by welding, cutting and cladding applications. Our acquisition of Innovative Laser Technologies during the third quarter of 2017 contributed to the increased sales for laser systems.Other ApplicationsSales from other applications increased 32.5%, with strong growth in advanced applications and communications, partially offset by a decline in medical applications. Within advanced applications, government sales increased largely from directed energy. 20Table of ContentsCost of sales and gross margin. Cost of sales increased by $15.5 million, or 9.5%, to $178.6 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018 from $163.1 million for the three months ended June 30, 2017. Our gross margin increased to 56.8% for the three months ended June 30, 2018 from 55.9% for the three months ended June 30, 2017. Gross margin increased due to product mix, which included increased sales of high power, medium power and pulsed lasers with higher average powers, along with manufacturing efficiencies and lower provision for inventory reserves. These increases in gross margin were partially offset by lower average selling prices.Sales and marketing expense. Sales and marketing expense increased by $2.4 million, or 19.8%, to $14.5 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018 from $12.1 million for the three months ended June 30, 2017. This change was primarily a result of increases in personnel and depreciation expense. As a percentage of sales, sales and marketing expense increased to 3.5% of sales for the three months ended June 30, 2018 from 3.3% for the three months ended June 30, 2017 .Research and development expense. Research and development expense increased by $5.8 million, or 22.5%, to $31.8 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018, compared to $26.0 million for the three months ended June 30, 2017. Research and development continues to focus on developing new products, enhancing performance of existing components, improving production processes and developing manufacturing of new components such as crystals and refining production processes to improve manufacturing yields and productivity. New products include lasers that operate at different wavelengths such as UV, visible and mid-IR, lasers with ultrafast pulses, laser based systems for material processing, projection, display and medical as well as accessories such as welding and cutting heads. In addition to new products research and development is focused on enhancing the performance of our existing products by improving their electrical efficiency and increasing their average power. As a percentage of sales, research and development expense increased to 7.7% for the three months ended June 30, 2018 from 7.0% for the three months ended June 30, 2017.General and administrative expense. General and administrative expense increased by $4.2 million, or 21.3%, to $24.1 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018 from $19.9 million for the three months ended June 30, 2017. This change was primarily a result of increases in personnel, consultants and depreciation expense. As a percentage of sales, general and administrative expense increased to 5.8% for the three months ended June 30, 2018 from 5.4% for the three months ended June 30, 2017.Effect of exchange rates on net sales, gross profit and operating expenses. We estimate that, if exchange rates relative to the U.S. Dollar had been the same as one year ago, which were on average Euro 0.91, Russian Ruble 57, Japanese Yen 111 and Chinese Yuan 6.86, respectively, we would have expected net sales to be $22.5 million lower, gross profit to be $14.9 million lower and total operating expenses to be $0.2 million lower. We incurred a foreign exchange loss of $2.1 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018 as compared to a $7.2 million loss for the three months ended June 30, 2017. The foreign exchange loss for the three months ended June 30, 2018 was primarily attributable to depreciation of the Chinese Yuan offset by a gain attributable to depreciation of the Euro and the Russian Ruble. The foreign exchange loss for the three months ended June 30, 2017 was primarily attributable to the appreciation of the Euro offset by depreciation of the Russian Ruble and appreciation of the Chinese Yuan as compared to the U.S. Dollar.Provision for income taxes. Provision for income taxes was $41.9 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018 compared to $37.5 million for the three months ended June 30, 2017. The effective tax rates were 25.6% and 26.5% for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Net income attributable to IPG Photonics Corporation. Net income attributable to IPG Photonics Corporation increased by $17.5 million to $121.6 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018 compared to $104.1 million for the three months ended June 30, 2017. Net income attributable to IPG Photonics Corporation as a percentage of our net sales increased by 1.2 percentage points to 29.4% for the three months ended June 30, 2018 from 28.2% for the three months ended June 30, 2017 due to the factors described above.Results of Operations for the six months ended June 30, 2018 compared to the six months ended June 30, 2017 Net sales. •The growth in high power lasers related to strength in sales of cutting applications. The demand for cutting is being driven by an accelerated replacement cycle of CO2 laser-based cutting systems and displacement on non-laser machine tools such as punch-press machines. Within the cutting applications, we continue to see a migration to lasers with higher output powers which improve processing speeds and enable processing of thicker materials. The shift towards lasers with higher output powers has also benefited sales due to their higher average selling prices. The increase in high-power sales was partially offset by a decrease in high-power metal welding sales including automotive and battery welding.•Medium-power laser sales were consistent due to growth in laser sintering and 3D printing being offset by a decline in sales for fine cutting. The decline in sales for fine cutting is partially attributable to a move to kilowatt scale high power lasers for fine cutting applications. Within the pulsed laser category, the rate of sales increases was larger for green pulsed lasers than for the low power and high power pulsed lasers.•QCW laser sales decreased due to the expected reduction in demand related to the consumer electronics investment cycle.•Materials processing sales also increased as a result of higher laser systems, accessories including beam delivery, and parts and service sales, which are included in Other Revenue in the Sales by Product chart above. The increase in laser systems sales was driven by welding, cutting, and cladding applications as well as from the acquisition of ILT during the third quarter of 2017.Other ApplicationsSales from other applications increased by 11.1% with strong growth in advanced applications and growth in medical, partially offset by a decline in communications. Within advanced applications, government sales increased largely from directed energy. 22Table of ContentsCost of sales and gross margin. Cost of sales increased by $43.5 million, or 14.9%, to $335.1 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018 from $291.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2017. Our gross margin increased to 56.7% from 55.5% for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Gross margin increased due to product mix, which included increased sales of high-power and pulsed lasers with higher average powers, along with manufacturing efficiencies and lower provision for inventory reserves. These increases in gross margin were partially offset by lower average selling prices.Sales and marketing expense. Sales and marketing expense increased by $5.1 million, or 22.2%, to $28.1 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018 from $23.0 million for the six months ended June 30, 2017, primarily as a result of increased expenses for personnel, trade show and exhibitions, and depreciation. As a percentage of sales, sales and marketing expense increased to 3.6% of sales for the six months ended June 30, 2018 from 3.5% for the six months ended June 30, 2017.Research and development expense. Research and development expense increased by $11.7 million, or 23.8%, to $60.4 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018, compared to $48.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2017, primarily as a result of an increase in expenses related to personnel, contractors, consultants, materials used for research and development projects and depreciation. Research and development continues to focus on developing new products, enhancing performance of existing components, improving production processes and developing manufacturing of new components such as crystals and refining production processes to improve manufacturing yields and productivity. New products include lasers that operate at different wavelengths such as ultra-violet, visible and mid-infrared; lasers with ultra-fast pulses; laser-based systems for material processing, projection, display and medical; new telecom products including pluggable transceivers; and laser accessories such as scanners, welding and cutting heads. In addition to new products research and development is focused on enhancing the performance of our existing products by improving their electrical efficiency and increasing their average power. As a percentage of sales, research and development expense increased to 7.8% for the six months ended June 30, 2018 from 7.4% for the six months ended June 30, 2017.General and administrative expense. General and administrative expense increased by $12.0 million, or 31.9%, to $49.6 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018 from $37.6 million for the six months ended June 30, 2017, primarily as a result of increased expenses for personnel, consultants, information technology, and accounting. As a percentage of sales, general and administrative expense increased to 6.4% for the six months ended June 30, 2018 from 5.7% for the six months ended June 30, 2017.Effect of exchange rates on net sales, gross profit and operating expenses. We estimate that, if exchange rates relative to the U.S. Dollar had been the same as one year ago, which were on average Euro 0.92, Russian Ruble 58, Japanese Yen 112 and Chinese Yuan 6.88, respectively, we would have expected net sales for the six months ended June 30, 2018 to be $52.3 million lower, gross profit to be $33.4 million higher and total operating expenses would have been $2.0 million lower. The gain for the six months ended June 30, 2018 was primarily attributable to the depreciation of the Euro and the Russian Ruble as compared to the U.S. Dollar, which was partially offset by a loss attributable to depreciation of the Chinese Yuan. The loss for the six months ended June 30, 2017 was primarily attributable to appreciation of the Euro compared to the U.S. Dollar partially offset by the appreciation of the Russian Ruble and the Chinese Yuan compared to the U.S. Dollar.Provision for income taxes. Provision for income taxes was $77.4 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018 compared to $63.9 million for the six months ended June 30, 2017, representing an effective tax rate of 25.4% and 26.3% for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Net income attributable to IPG Photonics Corporation. Net income attributable to IPG Photonics Corporation increased by $48.9 million to $228.0 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018 compared to $179.1 million for the six months ended June 30, 2017. The decrease in cash and cash equivalents of $93.1 million relates primarily to cash used in investing activities of $228.3 million and cash used in financing activities of $42.2 million. The cash used in investing activities includes$128.2 million of net investment purchases. During second quarter of 2018, we declared and partially paid an intercompany dividend from our Germany subsidiary to the U.S. parent in order to centralize cash in our functional currency, minimize foreign currency exposure and generate investment income. These outflows were partially offset by cash provided by operating activities in the six months ended June 30, 2018 of $208.6 million. In addition, the effect of exchange rates decreased cash and cash equivalents by $31.1 million. Short-term investments at June 30, 2018, consist of liquid investments including U.S. government and government agency notes, corporate notes, commercial paper and certificates of deposit with original maturities of greater than three months but less than one year. We also hold long-term investments, included in other assets on the consolidated balance sheets, which consist of the corporate bonds detailed above with maturities of less than two years and auction rate securities totaling $26.6 million. Our long-term debt consists of two long-term notes with a combined total outstanding balance at June 30, 2018 of $47.2 million of which $3.6 million is the current portion. We have an unsecured long-term note with an outstanding principal balance at June 30, 2018 of $21.4 million of which $1.2 million is the current portion. The interest on this unsecured long-term note is variable at 1.20% above LIBOR and is fixed using an interest rate swap at 2.85% per annum. The unsecured long-term note matures in May 2023, at which time the outstanding principal balance will be $15.4 million. We have another long-term note that is secured by our corporate aircraft with an outstanding principal balance of $25.8 million of which $2.4 million is the current portion. The interest on this collateralized long-term note is fixed at 2.74% per annum. The collateralized long-term note matures in July 2022, at which time the outstanding principal balance will be $15.4 million.We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, our cash flows from operations and our existing lines of credit provide us with the financial flexibility to meet our liquidity and capital needs, as well as to complete certain acquisitions of businesses and technologies. We intend to continue to pursue acquisition opportunities based upon market conditions and the strategic importance and valuation of the target company. We may consider issuing debt or equity to finance acquisitions depending on the timing and size of the acquisition. At June 30, 2018, there were no amounts drawn on this line, however, there were $0.4 million of guarantees issued against the line which reduces total availability. At June 30, 2018, there were no drawings on this facility, however, there were $0.6 million of guarantees issued against the line which reduces total availability. We are required to meet certain financial covenants associated with our U.S. revolving line of credit and long-term debt facility. Debt service is defined as required principal and interest payments during the period. Debt service in the calculation is decreased by our cash held in the U.S.A. in excess of $50 million up to a maximum of $250 million. Cash flow is defined as EBITDA less unfunded capital expenditures. The funded debt to EBITDA covenant requires that the sum of all indebtedness for borrowed money on a consolidated basis be less than three times our trailing twelve months EBITDA. We were in compliance with all such financial covenants as of and for the three months ended June 30, 2018. The financial covenants in our loan documents may cause us to not take or to delay investments and actions that we might otherwise undertake because of limits on capital expenditures and amounts that we can borrow or lease. In the event that we do not comply with any one of these covenants, we would be in default under the loan agreement or loan agreements, which may result in acceleration of the debt, cross-defaults on other debt or a reduction in available liquidity, any of which could harm our results of operations and financial condition.Operating activities. Net cash provided by operating activities increased by $75.4 million to $208.6 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018 from $133.1 million for the six months ended June 30, 2017. As the business and net income have grown, cash provided by net income after adding back non-cash charges has increased. For the six months ended June 30, 2018, this increase was partially offset by an increase in working capital to support the growth of the business. Our largest working capital items are inventory and accounts receivable. Items such as accounts payable to third parties, prepaid expenses and other current assets and accrued expenses and other liabilities are not as significant as our working capital investment in accounts receivable and inventory because of the amount of value added within IPG due to our vertically integrated structure. Accruals and payables for personnel costs including bonuses and income and other taxes payable are largely dependent on the timing of payments for those items. Cash provided by income and other taxes payable was $14.0 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018 as compared to cash used for income and other taxes payable of $22.0 million for the same period in 2017; partially offset by•An increase in the cash used for inventory. Cash used for inventory was $91.0 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018 as compared to $25.8 million for the same period in 2017.Given our vertical integration, rigorous and time-consuming testing procedures for both internally manufactured and externally purchased components and the lead time required to manufacture components used in our finished products, the rate at which we turn inventory has historically been comparatively low when compared to our cost of sales. Also, our historic growth rates required investment in inventories to support future sales and enable us to quote short delivery times to our customers, providing what we believe is a competitive advantage. Furthermore, if there was a disruption to the manufacturing capacity of any of our key technologies, our inventories of components should enable us to continue to build finished products for a period of time. We believe that we will continue to maintain a relatively high level of inventory compared to our cost of sales. As a result, we expect to have a significant amount of working capital invested in inventory. A reduction in our level of net sales or the rate of growth of our net sales from their current levels would mean that the rate at which we are able to convert our inventory into cash would decrease.Investing activities. Net cash used in investing activities was $228.3 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018 as compared to cash provided by investing activities of $44.7 million in 2017. The cash used in investing activities in 2018 related 25Table of Contentsto $96.5 million of capital expenditures and $128.2 million of net purchases of short-term and long-term investments. The cash provided by investing activities in 2017 related to $84.9 million of net proceeds from sales and maturities of short-term investments, partially offset by $43.6 million of capital expenditures. We expect to incur between $170 million and $190 million in 2018 in capital expenditures. Capital expenditures include investments in facilities and equipment to add capacity worldwide to support anticipated revenue growth. In 2018, we expect capital expenditures to increase as a percentage of revenue to support the growth of our business. The timing and extent of any capital expenditures in and between periods can have a significant effect on our cash flow. If we obtain financing for certain projects, our cash expenditures would be reduced in the year of expenditure. Many of the capital expenditure projects that we undertake have long lead times and are difficult to cancel or defer to a later period. Financing activities. Net cash used in financing activities was $42.2 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018 as compared to $25.4 million in 2017. The cash used in financing activities in 2018 was primarily related the purchase of treasury stock of $51.1 million, partially offset by proceeds of $10.6 million from the exercise of stock options net of amounts disbursed in relation to shares withheld to cover employee income taxes due upon the vesting and release of restricted stock units. The cash used in financing activities in 2017 was primarily related to the purchase of treasury stock of $24.1 million and payments on our long-term borrowings of $18.3 million. These cash uses were partially offset by proceeds of $17.2 million from the exercise of stock options net of amounts disbursed in relation to shares withheld to cover employee income taxes due upon the vesting and release of restricted stock units. Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking StatementsThis Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and we intend that such forward-looking statements be subject to the safe harbors created thereby. For this purpose, any statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q except for historical information are forward-looking statements. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, words such as "may," "will," "expect," "believe," "anticipate," "intend," "could," "estimate," or "continue" or the negative or other variations thereof or comparable terminology are intended to identify forward-looking statements. In addition, any statements that refer to projections of our future financial performance, trends in our businesses, or other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements.The forward-looking statements included herein are based on current expectations of our management based on available information and involve a number of risks and uncertainties, all of which are difficult or impossible to accurately predict and many of which are beyond our control. As such, our actual results may differ significantly from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in more detail in Item 1, "Business" and Item 1A, "Risk Factors" of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017. Readers should carefully review these risks, as well as the additional risks described in other documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In light of the significant risks and uncertainties inherent in the forward-looking information included herein, the inclusion of such information should not be regarded as a representation by us or any other person that such results will be achieved, and readers are cautioned not to rely on such forward-looking information. We undertake no obligation to revise the forward-looking statements contained herein to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.Recent Accounting PronouncementsSee Note 2 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a full description of recent accounting pronouncements,including the respective dates of adoption or expected adoption and effects on our consolidated financial statements containedin Item 1 of this Quarterly Report.ITEM 3. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK We are exposed to market risk in the ordinary course of business, which consists primarily of interest rate risk associated with our cash and cash equivalents and our debt and foreign exchange rate risk.Interest rate risk. Certain interest rates are variable and fluctuate with current market conditions. Our investments have limited exposure to market risk. We maintain a portfolio of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, consisting primarily of bank deposits, money market funds, certificates of deposit, corporate bonds and government and agency securities. None of these investments have a maturity date in excess of one year. Because of the short-term nature of these instruments, a sudden change in market interest rates would not be expected to have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. We also have long-term investments in corporate notes with maturities between one and two years. Given the modest amount of our long term investments totaling $26.6 million and the fact that we expect to hold these investments to 26Table of Contentsmaturity, we do not believe that a 10% change in market interest rates would have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations.We are also exposed to market risk as a result of increases or decreases in the amount of interest expense we must pay on our bank debt and borrowings on our bank credit facilities. Our interest obligations on our long-term debt are fixed either by the underlying agreement or by means of an interest rate swap agreement. Although our U.S. revolving line of credit and our Euro credit facility have variable rates, we do not believe that a 10% change in market interest rates would have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations.Exchange rates. Due to our international operations, a significant portion of our net sales, cost of sales and operating expenses are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar, principally the Euro, the Russian Ruble, the Chinese Yuan and the Japanese Yen. As a result, our international operations give rise to transactional market risk associated with exchange rate movements of the U.S. Dollar, the Euro, the Russian Ruble, the Chinese Yuan and the Japanese Yen. The loss on foreign exchange transactions totaled $2.1 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018 compared to the loss of $7.2 million for the three months ended June 30, 2017. Management attempts to minimize these exposures by partially or fully off-setting foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities at our subsidiaries that operate in different functional currencies. The effectiveness of this strategy can be limited by the volume of underlying transactions at various subsidiaries and by our ability to accelerate or delay inter-company cash settlements. As a result, we are unable to create a perfect offset of the foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities. At June 30, 2018, our material foreign currency exposure is net U.S. Dollar denominated assets at subsidiaries where the Euro or the Russian Ruble is the functional currency and U.S. Dollar denominated liabilities where the Chinese Yuan is the functional currency. The U.S. Dollar denominated assets are comprised of cash, third party receivables and inter-company receivables. The U.S. Dollar denominated liabilities are comprised of inter-company payables. A 5% change in the relative exchange rate of the U.S. Dollar to the Euro as of June 30, 2018 applied to the net U.S. Dollar asset balances, would result in a foreign exchange gain of $2.5 million if the U.S. Dollar appreciated and a $2.5 million foreign exchange loss if the U.S. Dollar depreciated. A 5% change in the relative exchange rate of the U.S. Dollar to the Chinese Yuan as of June 30, 2018 applied to the net U.S. Dollar liabilities balances, would result in a foreign exchange loss of $5.5 million if the U.S. Dollar appreciated and a $5.5 million foreign exchange gain if the U.S. Dollar depreciated.In addition we are exposed to foreign currency translation risk for those subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the U.S. Dollar as changes in the value of their functional currency relative to the U.S. Dollar can adversely affect the translated amounts of our revenue, expenses, net income, assets and liabilities. This can, in turn, affect the reported value and relative growth of sales and net income from one period to the next. In addition changes in the translated value of assets and liabilities due to changes in functional currency exchange rates relative to the U.S. Dollar result in foreign currency translation adjustments that are a component of other comprehensive income or loss.Foreign currency derivative instruments can also be used to hedge exposures and reduce the risks of certain foreign currency transactions; however, these instruments provide only limited protection and can carry significant cost. As of June 30, 2018, we are holding two foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge the value of inter-company dividends declared in Euros, which will be paid during the third quarter of 2018. We will continue to analyze our exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations and may engage in financial hedging techniques in the future to attempt to minimize the effect of these potential fluctuations. Exchange rate fluctuations may adversely affect our financial results in the future.27Table of ContentsITEM 4. LEGAL PROCEEDINGSFrom time to time, we are party to various legal proceedings and other disputes incidental to our business. There have been no material developments to those proceedings reported in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSIn addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the factors discussed in Part I, "Item 1A. Risk Factors" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results. The risks described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q are not the only risks facing our Company. ITEM 2. Pursuant to the "withhold to cover" method, we withheld from such employees the shares noted in the table above to cover tax withholding related to the vesting of their awards. For the three months ended June 30, 2018 a total of 1,315 shares were withheld at an average price of $239.79. Under the Program, the Company's management is authorized to repurchase shares of common stock in an amount not to exceed the number of shares issued to employees and directors under its various employee and director equity compensation and employee stock purchase plans from January 1, 2016 through December 31, 2017. The Program limits aggregate share repurchases to no more than $100 million over a period ended June 30, 2018. For the three months ended June 30, 2018, the Company repurchased 131,680 shares of its common stock with an average price of $235.37 per share in the open market. ITEM 3. DEFAULTS UPON SENIOR SECURITIESNone.ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURESNot applicable.ITEM 5. OTHER INFORMATIONNone.29Table of ContentsITEM 6.