Yes ¨ No þAs of July 24, 2018, 90,818,051 shares of the registrant’s common shares were outstanding.Table of Contents PagePART I. FINANCIAL INFORMATION ITEM 1. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS32ITEM 3. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK48ITEM 4. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES49PART II. OTHER INFORMATION ITEM 1. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS49ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS49ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS50ITEM 6. FINANCIAL INFORMATIONITEM 1. We equip business leaders with indispensable insights, advice and tools to achieve their mission-critical priorities and build the successful organizations of tomorrow. We believe that we have an unmatched combination of expert-led, practitioner-sourced and data-driven research that steers clients toward the right decisions on the issues that matter most. We're trusted as an objective resource and critical partner by more than 15,000 organizations in more than 100 countries - across all major functions, in every industry and enterprise size. To learn more about how we help decision makers fuel the future of business, visit gartner.com.Segments. Our revenues by business segment are discussed below under the heading "Revenue Recognition." When used in these notes, the terms “Gartner,” “Company,” “we,” “us,” or “our” refer to Gartner, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.In the second quarter of 2018, the Company divested its CEB Talent Assessment business and its CEB Workforce Survey and Analytics business. Additional information regarding these divestitures is included in Note 2 — Acquisitions and Divestitures while additional information regarding our segments is included in Note 5 — Segment Information. Basis of presentation. The fiscal year of Gartner is the twelve-month period from January 1 through December 31. In the opinion of management, all normal recurring accruals and adjustments considered necessary for a fair presentation of financial position, results of operations and cash flows at the dates and for the periods presented herein have been included. The results of operations for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 may not be indicative of the results of operations for the remainder of 2018 or beyond.Principles of consolidation. The accompanying interim condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. All significant intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated.Use of estimates. The preparation of the accompanying interim condensed consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions about future events. These estimates and the underlying assumptions affect the amounts of assets and liabilities reported, disclosures about contingent assets and liabilities, and reported amounts of revenues and expenses. Such estimates include the valuation of fees receivable, goodwill, intangible assets, and other long-lived assets, as well as tax accruals and other liabilities. In addition, estimates are used in revenue recognition, income tax expense or benefit, performance-based compensation charges, depreciation and amortization. Management believes its use of estimates in these interim condensed consolidated financial statements to be reasonable.Management continually evaluates and revises its estimates using historical experience and other factors, including the general economic environment and actions it may take in the future. Management adjusts these estimates when facts and circumstances dictate. However, these estimates may involve significant uncertainties and judgments and cannot be determined with precision. In addition, these estimates are based on management’s best judgment at a point in time. As a result, differences between our estimates and actual results could be material and would be reflected in the Company’s consolidated financial statements in future periods.7Adoption of new accounting standards. ASU No. Entities can adopt ASU No. Gartner elected to early adopt ASU No. 2018-02 as of the beginning of the second quarter of 2018, which resulted in an immaterial reclassification of stranded tax amounts related to the Act from Accumulated other comprehensive income, net to Accumulated earnings. ASU No. 2018-02 had no impact on the Company's operating results during the three months ended June 30, 2018. Stock Compensation Award Modifications — On January 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASU No. ASU No. 2017-09 provides guidance about which changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award require an entity to apply modification accounting. The adoption of ASU No. 2017-09 had no impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.Retirement Benefits Cost Presentation — On January 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASU No. ASU No. 2017-07 improves the reporting of net benefit cost in the financial statements, and provides additional guidance on the presentation of net benefit cost in the income statement and clarifies the components eligible for capitalization. The adoption of ASU No. 2017-07 had an immaterial impact on the classification of benefit expense on the Company's Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. Partial Sales of Non-financial Assets — On January 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASU No. ASU No. 2017-05 clarifies the scope of the FASB’s recently established guidance on non-financial asset de-recognition as well as the accounting for partial sales of non-financial assets. It conforms the de-recognition guidance on non-financial assets with the model for revenue transactions. The adoption of ASU No. 2017-05 had no impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.Definition of a Business — On January 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASU No. ASU No. 2017-01 changes the U.S. GAAP definition of a business. Such change can impact the accounting for asset purchases, acquisitions, goodwill impairment and other assessments. The adoption of ASU No. 2017-01 had no impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.Presentation of Restricted Cash — On January 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASU No. ASU No. 2016-18 requires that amounts generally described as restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents be presented with cash and cash equivalents when reconciling the beginning-of-period and end-of-period total amounts presented on an entity's statement of cash flows. ASU No. 2016-18 must be applied using a retrospective transition method to each comparative period presented in an entity's financial statements.As a result of the adoption of ASU No. 2016-18, the Company's restricted cash balances are now included in the beginning-of-period and end-of-period total amounts presented on the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. When compared to the Company's previously issued statement of cash flows for the six months ended June 30, 2017, the adoption of ASU No. Generally, such cash is restricted to use due to provisions contained in the underlying asset purchase agreement. See Note 2 — Acquisitions and Divestitures for additional information.Income Taxes — On January 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASU No. ASU No. 2016-16 accelerates the recognition of taxes on certain intra-entity transactions. U.S. GAAP previously required deferral of the income tax implications of an intercompany sale of assets until the assets were sold to a third party or recovered through use. Under ASU No. 2016-16, the seller’s tax effects and the buyer’s deferred taxes on asset transfers are immediately recognized upon the sale. Pursuant to the transition rules in ASU No. 2016-16, any taxes attributable to pre-2018 intra-entity transfers that were previously deferred should be accelerated and recorded to accumulated earnings on the date of adoption. As a result of this transition rule, certain of the Company's balance sheet income tax accounts pertaining to pre-2018 intra-entity transfers, which aggregated $13.7 million, were reversed against accumulated earnings on January 1, 2018. ASU No. 2016-16 could have a material post-adoption impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements, depending on the nature, size and tax consequences of future intra-entity transfers, if any. However, ASU No. 2016-16 had no impact on the Company's operating results during either the three or six months ended June 30, 2018.Statement of Cash Flows — On January 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASU No. ASU No. 2016-15 sets forth classification requirements for certain cash flow transactions. The adoption of ASU No. Among the significant changes required by ASU No. 2016-01 is that equity investments are to be measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in net income. The adoption of ASU No. 2016-01 had no impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.Revenue Recognition — On January 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASU No. The adoption of the standard did not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. However, as required by ASU No. 2014-09, the Company's disclosures around revenue recognition have been significantly expanded. Additionally, the Company's accounting policies have been updated to reflect the adoption of ASU No. Approximately 75% to 80% of our annual and multi-year Research subscription contracts provide for billing of the first annual period upon signing. In subsequent years, multi-year subscription contracts are normally billed prior to the contract’s anniversary date. Research contracts are generally non-cancelable and non-refundable, except for government contracts that may have cancellation or fiscal funding clauses, which historically have not produced material cancellations. It is our policy to record the amount of a subscription contract that is billable as a fee receivable at the time the contract is signed with a corresponding amount as deferred revenue because the contract represents a legally enforceable claim.EventsEvents provides business professionals across an organization with the opportunity to learn, share and network. Attendees are generally invoiced for the full attendance fee upon their completion of an online registration form or their signing of a contract, while exhibitors typically make several individual payments commencing with the signing of a contract. We collect almost all of the invoiced amounts in advance of the related event, resulting in the recording of deferred revenue. The Company defers certain costs directly related to its events and expenses those costs in the period during which the related symposium, conference or exhibition occurs. The Company's policy is to defer only those costs, primarily prepaid site and production services costs, that are incremental and directly attributable to a specific event. Other costs of organizing and producing our events, primarily Company personnel and non-event specific expenses, are expensed in the period incurred. At the end of each fiscal quarter, the Company assesses, on an event-by-event basis, whether the expected direct costs of producing a scheduled event will exceed the expected revenues. If such costs are expected to exceed revenues, the Company records the expected loss in the period determined.Consulting Consulting provides customized solutions to unique client needs through on-site, day-to-day support, as well as proprietary tools for measuring and improving IT performance with a focus on cost, performance, efficiency and quality, and contract optimization services.10Consulting revenues, primarily derived from custom consulting and measurement services, are principally generated from fixed fee or time and materials engagements. On a contract-by-contract basis, we typically use actual labor hours incurred compared to total expected labor hours to measure the Company’s performance in respect of our fixed fee engagements. If our labor and other costs on an individual contract are expected to exceed the total contract value or the contract’s funded ceiling amount, the Company reflects an adjustment to the contract’s overall profitability in the period determined. Revenues related to contract optimization engagements are contingent in nature and are only recognized at a point in time when all of the conditions related to their payment have been satisfied.Consulting customers are invoiced based on the specific terms and conditions in their underlying contracts. We typically invoice our Consulting customers after we have satisfied some or all of the related performance obligation and the related revenue has been recognized. We record fees receivable for amounts that are billed or billable. We also record contract assets, which represent amounts for which we have recognized revenue but lack the unconditional right to payment as of the balance sheet date due to our required continued performance under the relevant contract, progress billing milestones or other billing-related restrictions. The Company’s contract assets are discussed below. Other As discussed above, in the second quarter of 2018 the Company divested two of the three primary businesses in this segment. The remaining primary business, the Challenger sales training unit, provides sales training and related assessment tools. Revenue is recorded when the training is provided and over the service period for other offerings.Overview of ASU No. 2014-09 ASU No. ASU No. 2014-09 is intended to clarify the principles for recognizing revenue by removing inconsistencies and weaknesses in existing revenue recognition rules; provide a more robust framework for addressing revenue recognition issues; improve comparability of revenue recognition practices across entities, industries, jurisdictions and capital markets; and provide more useful information to users of financial statements through improved disclosures. The Company adopted ASU No. 2014-09 using the modified retrospective method of adoption. Under this method of adoption, the cumulative effect of applying the new standard is recorded at the date of initial application, with no restatement of the comparative prior periods presented. The adoption of ASU No. 2014-09 did not result in a cumulative effect adjustment to the Company's Accumulated earnings in its consolidated financial statements. However, the adoption of the new standard required reclassifications of certain amounts presented in the Company’s consolidated balance sheet. These two elections had no financial impact.Prior to January 1, 2018, the Company recognized revenue in accordance with then-existing U.S. GAAP and SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. Under both ASU No. 2014-09 and prior GAAP, revenue can only be recognized when all of the required criteria are met. Although there were certain changes to the Company’s revenue recognition policies and procedures effective January 1, 2018 with the adoption of ASU No. 2014-09, there were no material differences 11between the timing and amount of revenues recognized under ASU No. 2014-09 and prior GAAP. The accompanying Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations present revenues net of any sales or value-added taxes that we collect from customers and remit to government authorities.ASU No. 2014-09 requires that we assess at inception all of the promises in a customer contract to determine if a promise is a separate performance obligation. To identify our performance obligations, we consider all of the services promised in a customer contract, regardless of whether they are explicitly stated or are implied by customary business practices. If we conclude that a service is separately identifiable and distinct from the other offerings in a contract, we account for such a promise as a separate performance obligation.If a customer contract has more than one performance obligation, then the total contract consideration is allocated among the separate deliverables based on their stand-alone selling prices, which are determined based on the prices at which the Company discretely sells the stand-alone services. If a contract includes a discount or other pricing concession, the transaction price is allocated among the performance obligations on a proportionate basis using the relative stand-alone selling prices of the individual deliverables being transferred to the customer, unless the discount or other pricing concession can be ascribed to specifically identifiable performance obligations. The contracts with our customers delineate the final terms and conditions of the underlying arrangement, including product descriptions, subscription periods, deliverables, quantity and price of each service purchased. Since the transaction price of almost all of our customer contracts is typically agreed upon upfront and generally does not fluctuate during the duration of the contract, variable consideration is insignificant. The Company may engage in certain financing transactions with customers but these arrangements have been limited in number and not material. Required Disclosures under ASU No. 2014-09 ASU No. 2014-09 requires significantly expanded disclosures around the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. These additional disclosures are provided below. Disaggregated RevenuesWe believe that disaggregating the Company’s revenues by primary geographic location and the timing of when revenue is recognized achieves the disclosure objectives in ASU No. 2014-09. The corresponding Consulting revenues were recognized over time using labor hours as an input measurement basis. Other revenues in this category were recognized using either a time-elapsed output method, performance-based milestone approach or labor hours, depending on the nature of the underlying customer contract. A key factor in this determination is when the customer is able to direct the use of, and can obtain substantially all of the benefits from, the deliverable.For performance obligations recognized in accordance with a time-elapsed output method, the Company’s efforts are expended consistently throughout the contractual period and the Company transfers control evenly by providing stand-ready services. For performance obligations satisfied under our Consulting fixed fee and time and materials engagements, we believe that labor hours are the best measure of depicting the Company’s progress because labor output corresponds directly to the value of the Company’s performance to date as control is transferred. In our Other segment, we select a method to assess the completion of our performance obligations that best aligns with the specific characteristics of the individual customer contract. The Company applies the practical expedient allowed in ASU No. 2014-09 and, accordingly, it does not disclose such performance obligation information for customer contracts that have original durations of one year or less. Our performance obligations for contracts meeting this ASU No. The remaining duration of these performance obligations is generally less than one year, which aligns with the period that the parties have enforceable rights and obligations under the affected contracts.Customer Contract Assets and LiabilitiesThe timing of the recognition of revenues, the amount and timing of our billings and cash collections, as well as upfront customer payments, result in the recording of both assets and liabilities on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.The payment terms and conditions in our customer contracts vary. In some cases, customers prepay and, in other cases, after we conduct a credit evaluation, payment may be due in arrears. Amounts recorded as contract assets are reclassified to fees receivable when all of the outstanding conditions have been resolved and our right to payment becomes unconditional. Contracts with payments due in arrears are also recognized as fees receivable. In the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, contract assets are recorded in Prepaid expenses and other current assets as of June 30, 2018 and Fees receivable, net as of December 31, 2017. During the six months ended June 30, 2018, the Company recorded no material impairments related to its contract assets. In the normal course of business, the Company does not recognize revenues from performance obligations satisfied in prior periods.Allowance for Losses and Revenue Reserves As of December 31, 2017, the Company maintained an allowance for losses that included a bad debt allowance and a revenue reserve. Provisions to the Company’s allowance for losses were charged against earnings as either a reduction in revenues or an increase in expense. Effective with the adoption of ASU No. The revenue reserve previously reported as part of the allowance for losses has been reclassified and is now reported as a liability in accordance with ASU No. 2014-09.The revenue reserve is maintained for amounts deemed to be uncollectible for reasons other than bad debt. When determining the amount of the revenue reserve, the Company uses an expected-value method that is based on current estimates and a portfolio of data from its historical experience. Due to the common characteristics and similar attributes of our customers and contracts, which provide relevant and predictive evidence about our projected future liability, an expected-value method is reasonable and appropriate. However, the determination of the revenue reserve is inherently judgmental and requires the use of certain estimates. Changes in estimates are recorded in the period that they are identified. As of June 30, 2018, the revenue reserve balance was $6.9 million and adjustments to the account during the six months ended June 30, 2018 were not significant.The determination of the allowance for losses is based on historical loss experience, an assessment of current economic conditions, the aging of outstanding receivables, the financial health of specific clients and probable losses. This evaluation is inherently judgmental and requires the use of estimates. The allowance for losses is periodically re-evaluated and adjusted as more information about the ultimate collectability of fees receivable becomes available. Circumstances that could cause the allowance for losses to increase include changes in our clients’ liquidity and credit quality, other factors negatively impacting our clients’ ability to pay their obligations as they come due, and the effectiveness of our collection efforts.15Costs of obtaining and fulfilling a customer contract Upon the signing of a customer contract, the Company capitalizes the related commission as a recoverable direct incremental cost of obtaining the underlying contract and records a corresponding commission payable. No other amounts are capitalized as a cost of obtaining or fulfilling a customer contract because no expenditures have been identified that meet the requisite capitalization criteria. For Research, Consulting and Other, we generally use the straight-line method of amortization for deferred commissions over a period that is based on the projected recoverability for such costs, using factors such as the underlying contract period, the timing of when the corresponding revenues will be earned and the anticipated term of the engagement. For Events, deferred commissions are expensed during the period when the related event occurs.Under all circumstances, deferred commissions are amortized over a period that does not exceed one year. During the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, such amortization expense was $76.8 million and $54.7 million, respectively, and was included in Selling, general and administrative expense in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. The corresponding amortization expense during the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 was $152.7 million and $104.9 million, respectively. The Company recorded no material impairments of its deferred commissions during either the six months ended June 30, 2018 or 2017.Accounting standards issued but not yet adopted. The FASB has issued accounting standards that have not yet become effective and may impact the Company’s consolidated financial statements or related disclosures in future periods. ASU No. 2017-12 is intended to improve the financial reporting of hedging relationships to better portray the economic results of an entity’s risk management activities in its financial statements. In addition to that main objective, the standard makes certain targeted improvements to simplify the application of hedge accounting guidance in current U.S. GAAP. ASU No. 2017-12 is effective for Gartner on January 1, 2019. We are currently evaluating the impact of ASU No. 2017-12 on the Company's consolidated financial statements.Leases — In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. Under current U.S. GAAP, lease arrangements that meet certain criteria are not recorded on an entity's balance sheet. ASU No. Under ASU No. 2016-02, leases will be classified as either operating or financing arrangements, with such classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition in an entity's income statement. ASU No. 2016-02 also requires expanded disclosures to meet the objective of enabling users of financial statements to assess the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows related to leases. We intend to adopt ASU No. 2016-02 on January 1, 2019 using a modified retrospective approach, with certain available transitional practical expedients.We continue to assess the impact of the new leasing standard and collect the necessary data. We also continue to monitor changes, modifications, clarifications and interpretations undertaken by the FASB, which may impact our preliminary conclusions. However, based on the work completed to date, we believe that the adoption of the new leasing standard on January 1, 2019 will have a material impact on our consolidated balance sheet because the ROU model will result in a significant increase in both assets and liabilities from our operating leases, which currently are not recorded on the balance sheet. The actual amount of the overall increase in our assets and liabilities will not be known until closer to the adoption date. We also believe that ASU No. 2016-02 will not have a material impact on our consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income and cash flows.Accounting standards effective in 2020Goodwill Impairment — In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. ASU No. 2017-04 simplifies the determination of the amount of goodwill to be potentially charged off by eliminating Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test under current U.S. GAAP. ASU No. 2017-04 is effective for Gartner on January 1, 2020. The adoption of ASU No. 2017-04 is currently not expected to have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.Financial Instrument Credit Losses — In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. ASU No. 2016-13 amends the current financial instrument impairment model by requiring entities to use a forward-looking approach based on expected losses to estimate credit losses on certain types of financial instruments, 16including trade receivables. ASU No. 2016-13 is effective for Gartner on January 1, 2020, with early adoption permitted. We are currently evaluating the potential impact of ASU No. 2016-13 on our consolidated financial statements.The FASB continues to work on a number of other significant accounting standards which, if issued, could materially impact the Company's accounting policies and disclosures in future periods. As these standards have not yet been issued, the effective dates and potential impact are unknown.Note 2 — Acquisitions and DivestituresAcquisitionsThe Company accounts for business acquisitions in accordance with the acquisition method of accounting as prescribed by FASB ASC Topic 805, Business Combinations. The acquisition method of accounting requires the Company to record the net assets and liabilities acquired based on their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date, with any excess of the consideration transferred over the estimated fair value of the net assets acquired, including identifiable intangible assets, to be recorded to goodwill. Under the acquisition method, the operating results of acquired companies are included in the Company's consolidated financial statements beginning on the date of acquisition. The Company did not have any business acquisitions in 2018. The Company recognized $20.0 million and $79.2 million of acquisition and integration charges during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively, compared to $98.3 million and $111.6 million during the three and six months ended June 30, 2017, respectively. Acquisition and integration charges reflect additional costs and expenses resulting from our acquisitions and include professional fees, severance, stock-based compensation charges and accruals for exit costs for certain office space in Arlington, Virginia related to our acquisition of CEB that the Company does not intend to occupy. During 2018, exit costs represent the single largest component of our acquisition and integration charges. The cash received is subject to certain post-closing adjustments. The Company recorded a pretax gain of approximately $16.0 million on the sale. The CEB Talent Assessment business was acquired in the CEB acquisition in April 2017 and was a significant portion of the Other segment. During the six months ended June 30, 2018, the CEB Talent Assessment business contributed approximately $47.0 million of revenue and pre-tax income of approximately $2.1 million, substantially all of which was recorded by the Company during the first quarter of 2018. The cash received is subject to certain post-closing adjustments. The Company recorded a pre-tax gain on the sale of approximately $8.8 million. Also during the second quarter of 2018, the Company sold other miscellaneous assets acquired in the CEB transaction. The Company received $1.3 million in net cash proceeds from these sales and recorded a net pre-tax gain of approximately $0.7 million. Diluted EPS reflects the potential dilution of securities that could share in earnings. These common share equivalents totaled less than 0.4 million for both periods. 18Note 4 — Stock-Based CompensationThe Company grants stock-based compensation awards as an incentive for employees and directors to contribute to the Company’s long-term success. The Company currently awards stock-settled stock appreciation rights, service-based and performance-based restricted stock units, and common stock equivalents. The Company accounts for stock-based compensation awards in accordance with FASB ASC Topics 505 and 718 and SEC Staff Accounting Bulletins No. 107 and No. 110. Stock-based compensation expense is based on the fair value of the award on the date of grant. The Company recognizes stock-based compensation expense over the period that the related service is performed, which is generally the same as the vesting period of the underlying award. Currently, the Company issues treasury shares upon the exercise, release or settlement of stock-based compensation awards. Determining the appropriate fair value model and calculating the fair value of stock-based compensation awards requires the use of certain subjective assumptions, including the expected life of a stock-based compensation award and Common Stock price volatility. In addition, determining the appropriate periodic stock-based compensation expense requires management to estimate the likelihood of the achievement of certain performance targets. The assumptions used in calculating the fair values of stock-based compensation awards and the related periodic expense represent management’s best estimates, which involve inherent uncertainties and the application of judgment. As a result, if circumstances change and the Company deems it necessary in the future to modify the assumptions it made or to use different assumptions, or if the quantity and nature of the Company’s stock-based compensation awards changes, then the amount of expense may need to be adjusted and future stock-based compensation expense could be materially different from what has been recorded in the current period. Those awards vest on an accelerated basis. After the applicable vesting criteria have been satisfied, SARs are settled in shares of Common Stock upon exercise by the employee. SARs vest ratably over a four-year service period and expire seven years from the date of grant. The fair value of a SARs award is recognized as compensation expense on a straight-line basis over four years. SARs have only been awarded to the Company’s executive officers. The Company withholds a portion of the shares of the Common Stock issued upon exercise to satisfy statutory tax withholding requirements. The Company expects that substantially all of those unvested awards will vest in future periods. On such date, SARs vested and exercisable had an intrinsic value of $43.2 million. Historically, the Company has not paid cash dividends on its Common Stock. Each RSU that vests entitles the awardee to one share of Common Stock. RSU awardees do not have any of the rights of a Gartner stockholder, including voting rights and the right to receive dividends and distributions, until the shares are released. The fair value of an RSU award is determined on the date of grant based on the closing price of the Common Stock as reported on the New York Stock Exchange on that date. Service-based RSUs vest ratably over four years and are expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period. The performance-based awards include RSUs in final settlement of 2017 grants and approximately 0.2 million of RSUs representing the target amount of the grant for the year ending December 31, 2018 that is tied to an increase in Gartner's total contract value for 2018. The number of performance-based RSUs that will ultimately be awarded for 2018 ranges from 0% to 200% of the target amount and will be finalized based on the actual increase in Gartner's total contract value for 2018 as measured on December 31, 2018. If the specified minimum level of achievement is not met, the performance-based RSUs pertaining to 2018 will be forfeited in their entirety and any previously recorded compensation expense will be reversed. Each CSE entitles the holder to one share of Common Stock. Members of our Board of Directors receive their directors’ fees in CSEs unless they opt to receive up to 50% of those fees in cash. Generally, CSEs have no defined term and are converted into shares of Common Stock when service as a director terminates unless the director has elected an accelerated release. The fair value of a CSE award is determined on the date of grant based on the closing price of the Common Stock as reported on the New York Stock Exchange on that date. As of June 30, 2018, the Company had 0.7 million shares available for purchase under the ESP Plan. The ESP Plan is considered non-compensatory under FASB ASC Topic 718 and, as a result, the Company does not record stock-based compensation expense for employee share purchases. The Company received $7.6 million and $5.7 million in cash from employee share purchases under the ESP Plan during the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Note 5 — Segment InformationIn the second quarter of 2018, the Company divested its CEB Talent Assessment business and its CEB Workforce Survey and Analytics business. Additional information regarding these divestitures is included in Note 2 — Acquisitions and Divestitures. Gartner's traditional strengths in IT, marketing and supply chain research were enhanced in 2017 with Gartner's acquisition of CEB Inc., which added CEB's best practice and talent management research insights across a range of business functions, to include human resources, finance, sales and legal.•Events provides business professionals across the organization the opportunity to learn, share and network. As discussed above, the Company divested the majority of the operations in this segment in the second quarter of 2018. The Company evaluates segment performance and allocates resources based on gross contribution margin. Gross contribution, as presented in the table below, is defined as operating income or loss excluding certain Cost of services and product development expenses, Selling, general and administrative expenses, Depreciation, Amortization of intangibles, and Acquisition and integration charges. Certain bonus and fringe benefit costs included in consolidated Cost of services and product development are not allocated to segment expense. The accounting policies used by the reportable segments are the same as those used by the Company. There are no intersegment revenues. The Company does not identify or allocate assets, including capital expenditures, by reportable 22segment. The Company's policy is to only allocate bonus and related fringe charges to segments for up to 100% of the segment employee's target bonus. Amounts above 100% are absorbed by corporate. 23Note 6 — Goodwill and Intangible AssetsGoodwillGoodwill represents the excess of the purchase price of acquired businesses over the estimated fair values of the tangible and identifiable intangible net assets acquired. Evaluations of the recoverability of goodwill are performed in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 350, which requires an annual assessment of potential goodwill impairment at the reporting unit level and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of goodwill may not be recoverable. The annual assessment of the recoverability of recorded goodwill can be based on either a qualitative or quantitative assessment or a combination of the two approaches. Both methods utilize estimates which, in turn, require judgments and assumptions regarding future trends and events. As a result, both the precision and reliability of the resulting estimates are subject to uncertainty. If our annual goodwill impairment evaluation determines that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its related carrying amount, we may recognize an impairment charge. In connection with our most recent annual impairment test of goodwill during the quarter ended September 30, 2017, which indicated no impairment of recorded goodwill, the Company utilized the qualitative approach in assessing the fair values of its reporting units relative to their respective carrying values. See Note 2 — Acquisitions and Divestitures for additional information. See Note 2 — Acquisitions and Divestitures for additional information. Amortization expense related to finite-lived intangible assets was $50.1 million and $65.5 million during the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $101.8 million and $71.8 million during the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The Company's $500.0 million Term loan B facility was completely repaid during the six months ended June 30, 2018. The 2016 Credit Agreement contains certain customary restrictive loan covenants, including, among others, financial covenants that apply a maximum leverage ratio and a minimum interest expense coverage ratio, and covenants limiting Gartner’s ability to incur indebtedness, grant liens, make acquisitions, merge, dispose of assets, pay dividends, repurchase stock, make investments and enter into certain transactions with affiliates. The Company was in full compliance with the covenants as of June 30, 2018. The Term loan A facility is being repaid in 16 consecutive quarterly installments that commenced on June 30, 2017, plus a final payment to be made on March 20, 2022. The revolving credit facility may be borrowed, repaid, and re-borrowed through March 20, 2022, at which time all amounts must be repaid. The Senior Notes were issued at an issue price of 100.00% and bear interest at a fixed rate of 5.125% per annum. Interest on the Senior Notes is payable on April 1 and October 1 of each year. The Senior Notes will mature on April 1, 2025. The Company may redeem some or all of the Senior Notes at any time on or after April 1, 2020 for cash at the redemption prices set forth in the Note Indenture, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but not including, the redemption date. Prior to April 1, 2020, the Company may redeem up to 40% of the aggregate principal amount of the Senior Notes with the proceeds of certain equity offerings at a redemption price of 105.125% plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but not including, the redemption date. In addition, the Company may redeem some or all of the Senior Notes prior to April 1, 2020, at a redemption price of 100% of the principal amount of the Senior Notes plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but not including, the redemption date, plus a “make-whole” premium. If the Company experiences specific kinds of change of control, it will be required to offer to purchase the Senior Notes at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest. However, the Company has interest rate swap contracts which effectively convert the floating eurodollar base rates on a portion of the amounts outstanding to a fixed base rate. The Senior Notes pay a fixed rate of 5.125% and mature on April 1, 2025. The loan was originated in 2012 and has a 10 year maturity. Principal payments are deferred for the first five years and the loan may be repaid at any time by the Company without penalty. The Company expensed approximately $6.9 million of additional deferred financing fees in the second quarter of 2018 related to the repayment of the Term loan B facility. Interest Rate SwapsThe Company has fixed-for-floating interest rate swap contracts which it designates as accounting hedges of the forecasted interest payments on the Company’s variable rate borrowings. The Company pays base fixed rates on the swaps and in return receives a floating eurodollar base rate on 30 day notional borrowings. The Company accounts for the interest rate swaps as cash flow hedges in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 815. Any ineffective portion of change in the fair value of the hedges is recorded in earnings. All of the Company's swaps were highly effective hedges of the forecasted interest payments as of June 30, 2018. The Company may repurchase its common stock from time to time in amounts and at prices the Company deems appropriate, subject to the availability of stock, prevailing market conditions, the trading price of the stock, the Company’s financial performance and other conditions. Repurchases may be made through open market purchases, private transactions or other transactions and will be funded from cash on hand and borrowings under the Company’s credit arrangement. There were no open market purchases during 2017. 2018-02. See Note 1 - Business and Basis of Presentation for additional information. See Note 10 – Derivatives and Hedging for information regarding the hedges. See Note 12 – Employee Benefits for information regarding the Company’s defined benefit pension plans. See Note 2 – Acquisitions and Divestitures for information regarding our divestitures during the second quarter of 2018. Note 9 — Income TaxesThe provision for income taxes for the three months ended June 30, 2018 was an expense of $28.8 million on pretax income of $75.1 million compared to a benefit of $50.5 million on a pretax loss of $142.8 million in the three months ended June 30, 2017. The effective income tax rate was 38.4% for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 35.4% for the same period in 2017. The quarter-over-quarter change in the effective income tax rate was primarily attributable to tax expense on the gain from divestitures in 2018 partially offset by a reduction in the U.S. tax rate effective for 2018. The provision for income taxes for the six months ended June 30, 2018 was an expense of $5.5 million on pretax income of $32.2 million compared to a benefit of $38.4 million on a pretax loss of $94.3 million in the six months ended June 30, 2017. The effective income tax rate was 17.1% for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 40.7% for the same period in 2017. The year-over-year change in the effective income tax rate was largely attributable to tax benefits from stock-based compensation during the first half of 2018 that decreased the tax rate on pretax income while such benefits in the first half of 2017 increased the tax rate on pretax losses. In addition to the impact of stock-based compensation, the change in the effective income tax rate was driven by a reduction in the U.S. tax rate effective for 2018 partially offset by tax expense on the gain from divestitures in 2018. Upon enactment, we remeasured U.S. deferred tax 28assets and liabilities to reflect the reduced federal corporate tax rate, which reduced our 2017 income tax expense by $123.2 million. We also recorded a provisional amount for the one-time transition tax, which increased our 2017 income tax expense by $63.6 million.During the three months ending June 30, 2018, we recorded an additional $0.7 million provisional expense for the estimated state income tax impact of the one-time transition tax. As of June 30, 2018, we have not completed our accounting for the tax effects of enactment of the Act given the need to obtain, prepare, and analyze various information largely pertinent to the determination of ADFI including, but not limited to, our post-1986 earnings and profits, foreign taxes and amounts held in cash or other specified assets on various measurement dates. As such, the amounts we have recorded are provisional as permitted by the SEC per Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 and could change materially. Companies have the option to account for the GILTI tax as a period cost in the period incurred, or to recognize deferred taxes for temporary differences including outside basis differences expected to reverse as a result of the GILTI provisions. The Company has not yet determined its accounting policy election with respect to GILTI. We have, however, included an estimate of the current year GILTI tax impact in the 2018 tax provision calculation.The Company had gross unrecognized tax benefits of $60.3 million at both June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017. It is reasonably possible that gross unrecognized tax benefits will decrease by approximately $5.2 million within the next 12 months, due to the anticipated closure of audits and the expiration of certain statutes of limitation. In its opinion, the Court held that affiliated companies may exclude stock-based compensation expense from their cost-sharing arrangement. The Internal Revenue Service appealed the decision and, on July 24, 2018, the appellate court ruled in favor of the Internal Revenue Service. The affected taxpayer has 90 days to petition for review by the Supreme Court. Because of uncertainty related to the final resolution of this litigation and the recognition of potential benefits to the Company, the Company has not recorded any financial statement benefit associated with this matter. The Company will monitor developments related to this case and the potential impact of those developments on the Company’s consolidated financial statements. Note 10 — Derivatives and HedgingThe Company enters into a limited number of derivative contracts to mitigate the cash flow risk associated with changes in interest rates on variable rate debt and changes in foreign exchange rates on forecasted foreign currency transactions. The Company accounts for its outstanding derivative contracts in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 815, which requires all derivatives, including derivatives designated as accounting hedges, to be recorded on the balance sheet at fair value. The Company enters into short-term foreign currency forward exchange contracts to mitigate the cash flow risk associated with changes in foreign currency rates on forecasted foreign currency transactions. All of the outstanding contracts at June 30, 2018 matured by the end of July 2018. The Company did not have any collateral arrangements with its derivative counterparties, and none of the derivative contracts contained credit-risk related contingent features. Note 11 — Fair Value Disclosures The Company’s financial instruments include cash equivalents, fees receivable from customers, accounts payable, and accruals which are normally short-term in nature. The Company believes the carrying amounts of these financial instruments reasonably approximate their fair value due to their short-term nature. The Company’s financial instruments also include its outstanding variable-rate borrowings under the 2016 Credit Agreement. The Company believes the carrying amount of its variable-rate borrowings reasonably approximates their fair value because the rate of interest on those borrowings reflects current market rates of interest for similar instruments with comparable maturities.The Company enters into a limited number of derivatives transactions but does not enter into repurchase agreements, securities lending transactions, or master netting arrangements. Receivables or payables that result from derivatives transactions are recorded gross in the Company's consolidated balance sheets. FASB ASC Topic 820 provides a framework for the measurement of fair value and a valuation hierarchy based upon the transparency of inputs used in the valuation of assets and liabilities. Classification within the hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the resulting fair value measurement. The valuation hierarchy contains three levels. Level 1 measurements consist of quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level 2 measurements include significant other observable inputs such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets; identical assets or liabilities in inactive markets; observable inputs such as interest rates and yield curves; and other market-corroborated inputs. Level 3 measurements include significant unobservable inputs, such as internally-created valuation models. The Company does not currently utilize Level 3 valuation inputs to remeasure any of its assets or liabilities. However, Level 3 inputs may be used by the Company in its required annual impairment review of recorded goodwill. Information regarding the periodic assessment of the Company’s goodwill is 30included in Note 6 — Goodwill and Intangible Assets. The Company does not typically transfer assets or liabilities between different levels of the fair value hierarchy. The assets consist of investments in money market and mutual funds, and company-owned life insurance contracts, all of which are valued based on Level 1 or Level 2 valuation inputs. The related deferred compensation plan liabilities are recorded at fair value, or the estimated amount needed to settle the liability, which the Company considers to be a Level 2 input. Valuation of the foreign currency forward contracts is based on observable foreign currency exchange rates in active markets, which the Company considers a Level 2 input. The fair value of the swaps is based on mark-to-market valuations prepared by a third-party broker. The valuations are based on observable interest rates from recently executed market transactions and other observable market data, which the Company considers Level 2 inputs. The estimated fair value of the notes was derived from quoted market prices provided by an independent dealer which the Company considers to be a Level 2 input. Note 12 — Employee Benefits Defined-Benefit Pension PlansThe Company has defined-benefit pension plans in several of its international locations. Benefits paid under these plans are based on years of service and level of employee compensation. The Company’s defined-benefit pension plans are accounted for in accordance with FASB ASC Topics 715 and 960. Net periodic pension expense was $0.9 million and $1.6 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively, and $0.8 million and $1.5 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2017, respectively. 31Note 13 — Commitments and ContingenciesContingenciesThe Company is involved in legal proceedings and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business. We believe that the potential liability, if any, in excess of amounts already accrued from all proceedings, claims and litigation will not have a material effect on our financial position, cash flows, or results of operations when resolved in a future period.The Company has various agreements that may obligate us to indemnify the other party with respect to certain matters. Generally, these indemnification clauses are included in contracts arising in the normal course of business under which we customarily agree to hold the other party harmless against losses arising from a breach of representations related to such matters as title to assets sold and licensed or certain intellectual property rights. It is not possible to predict the maximum potential amount of future payments under these indemnification agreements due to the conditional nature of the Company’s obligations and the unique facts of each particular agreement. Historically, payments made by us under these agreements have not been material. ITEM 2. Historical results and percentage relationships are not necessarily indicative of operating results for future periods. Business Divestitures In the second quarter of 2018, the Company divested its CEB Talent Assessment business and its CEB Workforce Survey and Analytics business. Additional information regarding these divestitures is included in Note 2 — Acquisitions and Divestitures while additional information regarding our segments is included in Note 5 — Segment Information in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTSIn addition to historical information, this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Forward-looking statements are any statements other than statements of historical fact, including statements regarding our expectations, beliefs, hopes, intentions or strategies regarding the future. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of words such as “may,” “will,” “expect,” “should,” “could,” “believe,” “plan,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “predict,” “potential,” “continue” or other words of similar meaning.We operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment that involves numerous risks and uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. The potential fluctuations in our operating income could cause period-to-period comparisons of operating results not to be meaningful and could provide an unreliable indication of future operating results. A description of the risk factors associated with our business is included under “Risk Factors” contained in Item 1A. of the 2017 Form 10-K, which is incorporated herein by reference.32Forward-looking statements are subject to risks, estimates and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in, or implied by, the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such a difference include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the Risk Factors described in our 2017 Form 10-K. Readers should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which reflect management’s opinion only as of the date on which they were made. Except as required by law, we disclaim any obligation to review or update these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances as they occur. We equip business leaders with indispensable insights, advice and tools to achieve their mission-critical priorities and build the successful organizations of tomorrow. We believe our unmatched combination of expert-led, practitioner-sourced and data-driven research steers clients toward the right decisions on the issues that matter most. We’re trusted as an objective resource and critical partner by more than 15,000 organizations in more than 100 countries across all major functions, in every industry and enterprise size. Gartner is headquartered in Stamford, Connecticut, U.S.A. and, as of June 30, 2018, we had more than 14,000 associates. Gartner's traditional strengths in IT, marketing and supply chain research were enhanced in 2017 with Gartner's acquisition of CEB Inc., which added CEB's best practice and talent management research insights across a range of business functions, to include human resources, finance, sales and legal.•Events provides business professionals across the organization the opportunity to learn, share and network. The Company divested the majority of the operations in this segment in the second quarter of 2018. It is calculated as the annualized value of all contracts in effect at a specific point in time, without regard to the duration of the contract. Our total contract value consists of Global Technology Sales contract value, which includes sales to users and providers of technology, and Global Business Sales contract value, which includes sales to all other functional leaders. Client retention rate represents a measure of client satisfaction and renewed business relationships at a specific point in time. Client retention is calculated on a percentage basis by dividing our current clients, who were also clients a year ago, by all clients from a year ago. Client retention is calculated at an enterprise level, which represents a single company or customer. Wallet retention rate represents a measure of the amount of contract value we have retained with clients over a twelve-month period. Wallet retention is calculated on a percentage basis by dividing the contract value of clients, who were clients one year ago, by the total contract value from a year ago, excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange. When wallet retention exceeds client retention, it is an indication of retention of higher-spending clients, or increased spending by retained clients, or both. Wallet retention is calculated at an enterprise level, which represents a single company or customer. Events Number of destination events represents the total number of hosted destination events completed during the period. Single day, local events are excluded. Number of destination events attendees represents the total number of people who attend destination events. Single day, local events are excluded. Consulting Consulting backlog represents future revenue to be derived from in-process consulting and measurement engagements. Utilization rate represents a measure of productivity of our consultants. Utilization rates are calculated for billable headcount on a percentage basis by dividing total hours billed by total hours available to bill. Billing rate represents earned billable revenue divided by total billable hours. Average annualized revenue per billable headcount represents a measure of the revenue generating ability of an average billable consultant and is calculated periodically by multiplying the average billing rate per hour times the utilization percentage times the billable hours available for one year. 34EXECUTIVE SUMMARY OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL POSITIONWe have executed a consistent growth strategy since 2005 to drive revenue and earnings growth. The fundamentals of our strategy include a focus on creating extraordinary research insight, delivering innovative and highly differentiated product offerings, building a strong sales capability, providing world class client service with a focus on client engagement and retention, and continuously improving our operational effectiveness. We continue to focus on maximizing shareholder value.We had total revenues of $1.0 billion in the second quarter of 2018, an increase of 19% compared to the second quarter of 2017. Quarter-over-quarter revenues for Research, Events and Consulting increased 26%, 22% and 5%, respectively, during the second quarter of 2018. The Company's Other segment contributed $23.3 million and $47.1 million of revenues during the second quarter of 2018 and 2017, respectively, with the decline due to non-core divestitures we made in this segment in the second quarter of 2018. For a more complete discussion of our results by segment, see Segment Results below.For the second quarter of 2018, we had a net income of $46.3 million and diluted income per share of $0.50. Cash provided by operating activities was $176.7 million and $82.7 million during the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. As of June 30, 2018, we had $141.8 million of cash and cash equivalents and $906.0 million of available borrowing capacity on our revolving credit facility. For a more complete discussion of our cash flows and financial position, see Liquidity and Capital Resources below. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATESThe preparation of our consolidated financial statements requires the application of appropriate accounting policies and the use of estimates. Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of Gartner, Inc. contained in the 2017 Form 10-K. Management considers the policies discussed below to be critical to an understanding of our financial statements because their application requires complex and subjective management judgments and estimates. Specific risks for these critical accounting policies are also described below. The preparation of our consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions about future events. We develop our estimates using both current and historical experience, as well as other factors, including the general economic environment and actions we may take in the future. We adjust such estimates when facts and circumstances dictate. However, our estimates may involve significant uncertainties and judgments and cannot be determined with precision. In addition, these estimates are based on our best judgment at a point in time and, as such, they may ultimately differ materially from actual results. ASU No. 2014-09 and related amendments required changes in revenue recognition policies as well as enhanced disclosures. Among other things, ASU No. The Company adopted ASU No. 2014-09 on January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method of adoption. Under this method of adoption, the cumulative effect of applying the new standard is recorded at the date of initial application, with no restatement of the comparative prior periods presented. The adoption of ASU No. 2014-09 did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements. However, the adoption of the new standard required reclassifications of certain amounts presented in the Company’s consolidated balance sheet. Prior to January 1, 2018, the Company recognized revenue in accordance with then-existing generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America and SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. Under both ASU No. 2014-09 and prior GAAP, revenue can only be recognized when all of the required criteria are met. Note 1 — Business and Basis of Presentation in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements provides additional information regarding our adoption of ASU No. The related revenues are deferred and recognized ratably over the applicable contract term. Fees derived from assisting organizations in selecting the right business software for their needs are recognized when the leads are provided to vendors.•Events revenues are deferred and recognized upon the completion of the related symposium, conference or exhibition.•Consulting revenues are principally generated from fixed fee and time and material engagements. Revenues from fixed fee contracts are recognized as we work to satisfy our performance obligations. Revenues related to contract optimization contracts are contingent in nature and are only recognized upon satisfaction of all conditions related to their payment.•Other revenues attributable to the Challenger sales training business are recorded when the training is provided and over the service period for other offerings. The majority of research contracts are billable upon signing, absent special terms granted on a limited basis from time to time. Research contracts are generally non-cancelable and non-refundable, except for government contracts that may have cancellation or fiscal funding clauses. It is our policy to record the amount of a subscription contract that is billable as a fee receivable at the time the contract is signed with a corresponding amount as deferred revenue because the contract represents a legally enforceable claim.Uncollectible fees receivable — At December 31, 2017, the Company maintained an allowance for losses that was comprised of a bad debt allowance and a revenue reserve. In connection with the adoption of ASU No. 2014-09 on January 1, 2018, management concluded that the revenue reserve was a refund liability rather than a contra-receivable due to the nature of the account activity. As a result, the Company reclassified the revenue reserve of $6.2 million on January 1, 2018 from the allowance for losses to Accounts payable and accrued liabilities and will consistently present the revenue reserve in this manner in all future consolidated balance sheets. Note 1 — Business and Basis of Presentation in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements provides additional information regarding our adoption of ASU No. 2014-09 and its impact on the Company's allowance for losses. The determination of the bad debt allowance is based on historical loss experience, an assessment of current economic conditions, the aging of outstanding receivables, the financial health of specific clients, and probable losses. This evaluation is inherently judgmental and requires estimates. The Company's bad debt allowance is periodically re-evaluated and adjusted as more information about the ultimate collectability of fees receivable becomes available. As a result of the Company's adoption of ASU No. 2014-09 on January 1, 2018, contract assets are now included in Prepaid expenses and other current assets on the Company's Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet at June 30, 2018. As a result of the Company's adoption of ASU No. 2014-09 on January 1, 2018, the revenue reserve balance is now included in Accounts payable and accrued liabilities on the Company's Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet at June 30, 2018.Goodwill and other intangible assets — When we acquire a business, we determine the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed on the date of acquisition, which may include a significant amount of intangible assets such as customer relationships, software, and content, as well as resulting goodwill. When determining the fair values of the acquired intangible 36assets, we consider, among other factors, analyses of historical financial performance and an estimate of the future performance of the acquired business. The fair values of the acquired intangible assets are primarily calculated using an income approach that relies on discounted cash flows. This method starts with a forecast of the expected future net cash flows for the asset and then adjusts the forecast to present value by applying an appropriate discount rate that reflects the risk factors associated with the cash flow streams. We consider this approach to be the most appropriate valuation technique because the inherent value of an acquired intangible asset is its ability to generate future income. In a typical acquisition, we engage a third-party valuation expert to assist us with the fair value analyses for acquired intangible assets.Determining the fair values of acquired intangible assets requires us to exercise significant judgment. We select reasonable estimates and assumptions based on evaluating a number of factors, including, but not limited to, marketplace participants, consumer awareness and brand history. Additionally, there are significant judgments inherent in discounted cash flows such as estimating the amount and timing of projected future cash flows, the selection of appropriate discount rates, hypothetical royalty rates and contributory asset capital charges. In addition, an impairment evaluation of our amortizable intangible assets may also be performed if events or circumstances indicate potential impairment. Among the factors that could trigger an impairment review are current operating results that do not align with our annual plan or historical performance; changes in our strategic plan or the use of our assets; restructuring charges or other changes in our business segments; competitive pressures and changes in the general economy or in the markets in which we operate; and a significant decline in our stock price and our market capitalization relative to our net book value.FASB ASC Topic 350 requires an annual assessment of the recoverability of recorded goodwill, which can be either quantitative or qualitative in nature, or a combination of the two approaches. Both methods utilize estimates which, in turn, require judgments and assumptions regarding future trends and events. As a result, both the precision and reliability of the resulting estimates are subject to uncertainty. If our goodwill impairment evaluation determines that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its related carrying amount, we may recognize an impairment charge. Among the factors that we consider in a qualitative assessment are general economic conditions and the competitive environment; actual and projected reporting unit financial performance; forward-looking business measurements; and external market assessments. A quantitative analysis requires management to consider each of the factors relevant to a qualitative assessment, as well as the utilization of detailed financial projections, to include the rate of revenue growth, profitability and cash flows, as well as assumptions regarding discount rates, the Company's weighted average cost of capital and other data, in order to determine a fair value for our reporting units. We conducted a qualitative assessment of the fair value of all of the Company's reporting units during the quarter ended September 30, 2017. Our assessment determined that the fair values of the Company's reporting units continue to exceed their respective carrying values and, as a result, no goodwill impairment was indicated. Note 6 — Goodwill and Intangible Assets in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements provides additional information regarding goodwill and amortizable intangible assets.Accounting for income taxes — The Company uses the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. We estimate our income taxes in each of the jurisdictions where we operate. This process involves estimating our current tax expense or benefit together with assessing temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of items for tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included in our consolidated balance sheets. When assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, we consider if it is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. In making this assessment, we consider the availability of loss carryforwards, projected reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, and ongoing prudent and feasible tax planning strategies. The Company recognizes the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained based on the technical merits of the position.The Company adopted FASB Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-16, "Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory," on January 1, 2018. Note 1 — Business and Basis of Presentation in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements provides information regarding our adoption of this accounting standard and its impact.37Accounting for stock-based compensation — The Company accounts for stock-based compensation awards in accordance with FASB ASC Topics 505 and 718 and SEC Staff Accounting Bulletins No. 107 and No. 110. The Company recognizes stock-based compensation expense, which is based on the fair value of the award on the date of grant, over the related service period. Note 4 — Stock-Based Compensation in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements provides additional information regarding stock-based compensation. Determining the appropriate fair value model and calculating the fair value of stock-based compensation awards requires the use of certain subjective assumptions, including the expected life of a stock-based compensation award and the Company’s common stock price volatility. In addition, determining the appropriate periodic stock-based compensation expense requires management to estimate the likelihood of the achievement of certain performance targets. The assumptions used in calculating the fair values of stock-based compensation awards and the related periodic expense represent management’s best estimates, which involve inherent uncertainties and the application of judgment. As a result, if circumstances change and the Company deems it necessary in the future to modify the assumptions it made or to use different assumptions, or if the quantity and nature of the Company’s stock-based compensation awards changes, then the amount of expense may need to be adjusted and future stock-based compensation expense could be materially different from what has been recorded in the current period.Restructuring and other accruals — We may record accruals for severance costs, costs associated with excess facilities that we have leased, contract terminations, asset impairments and other costs as a result of ongoing actions we undertake to streamline our organization, reposition certain businesses and reduce ongoing costs. Estimates of costs to be incurred to complete these actions, such as future lease payments, sublease income, the fair value of assets, and severance and related benefits, are based on assumptions at the time the actions are initiated. These accruals may need to be adjusted to the extent actual costs differ from such estimates. In addition, these actions may be revised due to changes in business conditions that we did not foresee at the time such plans were approved. We also record accruals during the year for our various employee cash incentive programs. The operating results of CEB are included beginning on April 5, 2017, the date of acquisition. Total revenues for the six months ended June 30, 2018 increased by $496.0 million, to $2.0 billion, an increase of 34% compared to the same period in 2017 on a reported basis and 30% excluding the foreign currency impact. A substantial portion of the increased total revenue for the six months ended June 30, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017 is due to the CEB acquisition in early April 2017. This increase was primarily due to higher payroll and related benefits costs resulting from increased headcount. Cost of services and product development as a percent of revenues was 37% and 42% during the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. For the six months ended June 30, 2018, cost of services and product development was $724.8 million, an increase of $135.2 million compared to the same period in 2017, or 23% on a reported basis and 20% excluding the foreign currency impact. This increase was primarily due to the same factors that caused the 2018 quarterly increase, as well as incremental payroll and related benefits costs from the CEB acquisition. The overall headcount growth includes increases in quota-bearing sales associates at Global Technology Sales and Global Business Sales to 2,801 and 794, respectively, at June 30, 2018. On a combined basis, the total number of quota-bearing sales associates increased by 12% when compared to June 30, 2017. The decrease in depreciation during the 2018 three month period was due to certain businesses that were divested in the three months ended June 30, 2018. The increase in depreciation during the 2018 six month period was due to property, equipment and leasehold improvements acquired with CEB and additional Gartner investments.Amortization of intangibles declined by $15.4 million during the three months ended June 30, 2018 and increased by $30.0 million during the six months ended June 30, 2018 when compared to the same periods in 2017. The decrease in amortization of intangibles during the 2018 three month period was due to certain businesses that were divested in the three months ended June 30, 2018. The increase in amortization of intangibles during the 2018 six month period was due to additional amortization recorded in connection with our 2017 acquisitions.Acquisition and integration charges were $78.4 million and $32.4 million lower in the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively, than the same periods in 2017. Acquisition and integration charges reflect additional costs and expenses resulting from our acquisitions and include professional fees, severance, stock-based compensation charges and accruals for exit costs for certain office space in Arlington, Virginia related to our acquisition of CEB that the Company does not intend to occupy. During 2018, exit costs represent the single largest component of our acquisition and integration charges. Our acquisition and integration charges declined during each of the 2018 periods because the Company's most recently completed acquisitions occurred during the first half of 2017.During the three months ended June 30, 2018, our operating income was $86.1 million compared to an operating loss of $98.4 million for the same period in 2017. During the six months ended June 30, 2018, our operating income was $77.4 million compared to an operating loss of $44.9 million for the same period in 2017. 40Interest expense, net declined by $6.4 million during the three months ended June 30, 2018 and increased by $22.8 million during the six months ended June 30, 2018 when compared to the same periods in 2017. These changes reflect the Company's average outstanding borrowings during each of the 2018 and 2017 periods and significant principal repayments on our debt subsequent to the completion of the CEB acquisition.Gain from divested operations of $25.5 million during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 was due to the sale of certain business units and other miscellaneous assets. The effective income tax rate was 38.4% for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 35.4% for the same period in 2017. The quarter-over-quarter change in the effective income tax rate was primarily attributable to tax expense on the gain from divestitures in 2018 partially offset by a reduction in the U.S. tax rate effective for 2018. The provision for income taxes for the six months ended June 30, 2018 was an expense of $5.5 million on pretax income of $32.2 million compared to a benefit of $38.4 million on a pretax loss of $94.3 million in the six months ended June 30, 2017. The effective income tax rate was 17.1% for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 40.7% for the same period in 2017. The year-over-year change in the effective income tax rate was largely attributable to tax benefits from stock-based compensation during the first half of 2018 that decreased the tax rate on pretax income while such benefits in the first half of 2017 increased the tax rate on pretax losses. In addition to the impact of stock-based compensation, the change in the effective income tax rate was driven by a reduction in the U.S. tax rate effective for 2018 partially offset by tax expense on the gain from divestitures in 2018. Net income during the three months ended June 30, 2018 was $46.3 million compared to a net loss of $92.3 million for the same period in 2017. During the six months ended June 30, 2018, net income was $26.7 million compared to a net loss of $55.8 million for the same period in 2017. Additionally, our diluted income per share increased by $1.53 and $0.94 during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively, when compared to the same periods in 2017. These quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year changes reflect an improvement in our operating profitability and the gain from divested operations, partially offset by an increase in tax provisions and higher interest expense during the 2018 six month period.41SEGMENT RESULTSWe evaluate reportable segment performance and allocate resources based on gross contribution margin. Gross contribution margin is defined as gross contribution as a percent of revenues.Business Divestitures In the second quarter of 2018, the Company divested its CEB Talent Assessment business and its CEB Workforce Survey and Analytics business. Gartner's traditional strengths in IT, marketing and supply chain research were enhanced in 2017 with Gartner's acquisition of CEB Inc., which added CEB's best practice and talent management research insights across a range of business functions, to include human resources, finance, sales and legal.•Events provides business professionals across the organization the opportunity to learn, share and network. •Consulting provides customized solutions to unique client needs through on-site, day-to-day support, as well as proprietary tools for measuring and improving IT performance with a focus on cost, performance, efficiency and quality. •Other currently includes the Challenger sales training business, which provides sales training and related assessment tools, and certain other miscellaneous activities. As discussed above, the Company divested the majority of the operations in this segment in the second quarter of 2018. The sections below present the results of these four reportable business segments. Global Business Sales includes sales to all other functional leaders. The gross contribution margin improved by four points during the three months ended June 30, 2018, which was primarily due to improvement in margins for our premium services and the reduced effect from the CEB acquisition deferred revenue fair value accounting adjustments in 2018.For the six months ended June 30, 2018, Research revenues increased by $409.2 million compared to the same period in 2017, or 36% on a reported basis and 33% excluding the foreign currency impact. Total contract value increased to $2.9 billion at June 30, 2018, or 12%. Total contract value at June 30, 2018 increased by double-digits across nearly all of the Company’s client sizes and half of its industry segments when compared to June 30, 2017.GTS client retention was 82% and 83% as of June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, while wallet retention was 105% and 104%, respectively. GBS client retention was 83% and 79% as of June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, while wallet retention was 97% for both periods. Both attendee and exhibitor revenues increased by double-digits during the second quarter of 2018. We held 24 events during the three months ended June 30, 2018 with a 13% increase in the number of attendees and a 4% increase in exhibitors compared to the same period in 2017, while the average revenue per attendee and exhibitor increased by 6% and 8%, respectively. The segment gross contribution margin improved by two points during the three months ended June 30, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017 due to greater profitability at our ongoing events, which was primarily driven by increased attendee and exhibitor participation and improvements in our revenue per attendee and per exhibitor, as well as our continuing efforts to efficiently manage our event-related expenses.For the six months ended June 30, 2018, Events revenues increased by $30.9 million compared to the same period in 2017, or 24% on a reported basis and 22% excluding the foreign currency impact. We held 38 events during the six months ended June 30, 2018 with an 18% increase in the number of attendees and a 5% increase in exhibitors compared to the same period in 2017, while the average revenue per attendee and exhibitor increased by 3% and 11%, respectively. The segment gross contribution margin improved by one point during the six months ended June 30, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017 due to the same drivers as the quarter increase. The segment gross contribution margin was 35% and 34% for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The higher margin during the second quarter of 2018 was primarily due to improvements in our core consulting business partially offset by lower contract optimization revenue, which has a higher contribution margin than our labor-based core consulting. For the six months ended June 30, 2018, Consulting revenues increased 5% compared to the same period in 2017 on a reported basis and 2% excluding the foreign currency impact, while the segment gross contribution margin declined by one point.Backlog increased by $14.6 million, or 16%, from June 30, 2017 to June 30, 2018. The $105.6 million of backlog at June 30, 2018 represented approximately four months of backlog, which is in line with the Company's operational target.45OtherIn the second quarter of 2018, the Company divested its CEB Talent Assessment business and its CEB Workforce Survey and Analytics business. Additional information regarding these divestitures is included in Note 2 — Acquisitions and Divestitures while additional information regarding our segments is included in Note 5 — Segment Information in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Other segment revenues declined by $23.8 million during the three months ended June 30, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017, or 51% on a reported basis, due to the divestitures of the CEB Talent Assessment and CEB Workforce Survey and Analytics businesses. The gross contribution margin improved by 28 points during the three months ended June 30, 2018, which was primarily due to the reduced effect from the CEB acquisition deferred revenue fair value accounting adjustments in 2018. Other segment revenues increased by $46.9 million during the six months ended June 30, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017 and the related 2018 gross contribution margin improved by 25 points.46LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCESWe finance our operations through cash generated from our operating activities and borrowings. Note 7 — Debt in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements herein provides additional information regarding the Company's outstanding debt obligations. At June 30, 2018, we had $141.8 million of cash and cash equivalents and $906.0 million of available borrowing capacity on the revolving credit facility under our 2016 Credit Agreement. We believe that the Company has adequate liquidity to meet its currently anticipated needs. We have historically generated significant cash flows from our operating activities. Our operating cash flow has been continuously maintained by the leverage characteristics of our subscription-based business model in our Research segment, which is our largest business segment and historically has constituted the majority of our total revenues. The majority of our Research customer contracts are paid in advance, and combined with a strong customer retention rate and high incremental margins, has resulted in continuously strong operating cash flow. Cash flow generation has also benefited from our ongoing efforts to improve the operating efficiencies of our businesses as well as a focus on the optimal management of our working capital as we increase sales. Our cash and cash equivalents are held in numerous locations throughout the world with 92% held overseas as of June 30, 2018. The Company intends to reinvest substantially all of its accumulated undistributed foreign earnings, except in instances in which repatriation would result in minimal additional tax. Operating Cash provided by operating activities was $176.7 million compared to $82.7 million during the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The year-over-year increase was primarily driven by net income in the 2018 period compared to a loss in the 2017 period. The higher net income in the 2018 period was partially offset by higher cash payments for interest on our borrowings and to a lesser extent, a decline in our working capital. InvestingCash provided by investing activities was $366.4 million during the six months ended June 30, 2018, with $406.5 million in net cash realized from business unit divestitures and other miscellaneous asset sales, partially offset by $40.1 million of capital expenditures. In the 2017 period, cash used in investing activities was $2.6 billion, primarily due to business acquisitions.FinancingCash used in financing activities was $947.3 million during the six months ended June 30, 2018 compared to cash provided of $2.7 billion during the same period in 2017. During the 2018 period, the Company used $858.6 million in cash for debt principal repayments and used $96.3 million in cash for share repurchases. 47OBLIGATIONS AND COMMITMENTSDebt As of June 30, 2018, the Company had $2.5 billion of principal amount of debt outstanding. Note 7 — Debt in the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements provides additional information regarding the Company's debt obligations. Off-Balance Sheet ArrangementsThrough June 30, 2018, we have not entered into any material off-balance sheet arrangements or transactions with unconsolidated entities or other persons. RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDSThe FASB has issued accounting standards that have not yet become effective and that may impact the Company’s consolidated financial statements or related disclosures in future periods. Note 1 — Business and Basis of Presentation in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements herein provides information regarding these accounting standards. ITEM 3. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISKINTEREST RATE RISKAs of June 30, 2018, the Company had approximately $2.5 billion in total debt principal outstanding. Note 7 — Debt in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements provides additional information regarding the Company's debt obligations. Approximately $1.7 billion of the Company's total debt outstanding as of June 30, 2018 was based on a floating base rate of interest, which potentially exposes the Company to increases in interest rates. However, we partially reduce our overall exposure to changes in interest rates through our interest rate swap contracts, which effectively convert the floating base interest rate on a portion of these variable rate borrowings to fixed rates. Thus we are exposed to base interest rate risk on floating rate borrowings only in excess of any amounts that are not hedged, and at June 30, 2018, the amount of such unhedged borrowings was approximately $300.0 million. As an indication of our potential exposure to changes in interest rates, a hypothetical 25 basis point increase or decrease in interest rates could change our annual pre-tax interest expense by approximately $0.8 million. FOREIGN CURRENCY RISKA significant portion of our revenues are earned outside of the U.S., and as a result we conduct business in numerous currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Among the major foreign currencies in which we conduct business are the Euro, the British Pound, the Japanese Yen, the Australian dollar, and the Canadian dollar. The reporting currency of our consolidated financial statements is the U.S. dollar. As the values of the foreign currencies in which we operate fluctuate over time relative to the U.S. dollar, the Company is exposed to both foreign currency translation and transaction risk.Translation risk arises as our foreign currency assets and liabilities are translated into U.S. dollars since the functional currencies of our foreign operations are generally denominated in the local currency. Adjustments resulting from the translation of these assets and liabilities are deferred and recorded as a component of stockholders’ equity. A measure of the potential impact of foreign currency translation can be determined through a sensitivity analysis of our cash and cash equivalents. At June 30, 2018, we had $141.8 million of cash and cash equivalents, a portion of which was denominated in foreign currencies. If the exchange rates of the foreign currencies we hold all changed in comparison to the U.S. dollar by 10%, the amount of cash and cash equivalents we would have reported on June 30, 2018 would have increased or decreased by approximately $13.0 million. The translation of our foreign currency revenues and expenses historically has not had a material impact on our consolidated earnings since movements in and among the major currencies in which we operate tend to impact our revenues and expenses fairly equally. However, our earnings could be impacted during periods of significant exchange rate volatility, or when some or all of the major currencies in which we operate move in the same direction against the U.S. dollar. Transaction risk arises when our foreign subsidiaries enter into transactions that are denominated in a currency that may differ from the local functional currency. As these transactions are translated into the local functional currency, a gain or loss may result, which is recorded in current period earnings. We typically enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to mitigate the effects of some of this foreign currency transaction risk. Our outstanding currency contracts as of June 30, 2018 had an immaterial net unrealized loss. 48CREDIT RISKFinancial instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentration of credit risk consist primarily of short-term, highly liquid investments classified as cash equivalents, accounts receivable, interest rate swap contracts and foreign exchange contracts. The majority of the Company’s cash and cash equivalents, interest rate swap contracts, and its foreign exchange contracts are with large investment grade commercial banks. Accounts receivable balances deemed to be collectible from customers have limited concentration of credit risk due to our diverse customer base and geographic dispersion.ITEM 4. Specifically, these controls and procedures ensure that the information is accumulated and communicated to our executive management team, including our chief executive officer and our chief financial officer, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.Management conducted an evaluation, as of June 30, 2018, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures, under the supervision and with the participation of our chief executive officer and chief financial officer. Based upon that evaluation, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer have concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures are effective in alerting them in a timely manner to material Company information required to be disclosed by us in reports filed under the Exchange Act.There have been no changes in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting during the period covered by this report that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. PART II. OTHER INFORMATIONITEM 1. LEGAL PROCEEDINGSWe are involved in legal and administrative proceedings and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business. We believe that the potential liability, if any, in excess of amounts already accrued from all proceedings, claims and litigation will not have a material effect on our financial position or results of operations when resolved in a future period.ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSRisk factors associated with our business are included under “Risk Factors” contained in Item 1A. of the Company's 2017 Form 10-K and are incorporated herein by reference. 49ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDSThere were no unregistered sales of equity securities during the period covered by this report.Issuer Purchases of Equity SecuritiesThe Company has a $1.2 billion board authorization to repurchase the Company's common stock. The Company may repurchase its common stock from time-to-time in amounts and at prices the Company deems appropriate, subject to the availability of stock, prevailing market conditions, the trading price of the stock, the Company’s financial performance and other conditions. Repurchases may be made through open market purchases, private transactions or other transactions and will be funded from cash on hand and borrowings under the Company’s 2016 Credit Agreement. 50ITEM 6. 1350. + Management compensation plan or arrangement. Items 3, 4, and 5 of Part II are not applicable and have been omitted.51SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. Gartner, Inc.