fls.txt
This may result in the earlier recognition of allowances for losses.


item1.txt
The Company takes orders in several ways, including phone, fax, online and through electronic data interchange.
In management’s opinion, the accompanying interim Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company include all adjustments, consisting only of normal, recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of the Company’s financial position for the interim periods presented.
These statements are presented in accordance with the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) and have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”).
2016-13, Financial Instruments – Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments which amends the impairment model by requiring entities to use a forward-looking approach based on expected losses rather than incurred losses to estimate credit losses on certain types of financial instruments, including trade receivables.
This ASU is effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2019.
This ASU requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets related to the rights and obligations created by those leases.
This standard resulted in the Company recording a right-of-use asset and lease liability for all leases, but otherwise the standard did not have a material impact on the financial statements.
Prior periods were not adjusted to reflect this change.
Specifically, payments for debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs, including third-party costs, premiums paid, and other fees paid to lenders that are directly related to the debt prepayment or debt extinguishment, excluding accrued interest, are now classified as financing activities.
Previously, these payments were classified as operating expenses.
Adoption of this standard did not have an impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company, included herein.
No additional awards may be granted under the 1994 Plan, although awards outstanding under the 1994 Plan remain outstanding and governed by its terms.
Pursuant to the typical PSU award agreement, however, performance metrics are deemed met upon the occurrence of a change in control, and shares earned are issued earlier upon the occurrence of a change in control, or death or disability of the employee, or upon termination of the employee’s employment without cause or by the employee for good reason, as those terms are defined in the applicable PSU award agreement.


item2.txt
also be affected by wireless carrier consolidation or the overall global economic environment.
We believe, however, that our strength in service, the breadth and depth of our product offering, our information technology system, industry experience and knowledge, and our large customer base and purchasing relationships with approximately 400 manufacturers, provide us with a significant competitive advantage over new entrants to the marketplace.
The decline in the retail segment was driven by significantly lower revenues from one of our more significant retail customers following its acquisition during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019, change in business model and subsequent transition of its business elsewhere, as well as ongoing overall market softness.
Overall gross profit margin decreased from 19.8% in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 to 18.6% in the second quarter of fiscal 2020.
Within our commercial segment, gross profit margin in our public carrier market increased from 12.0% to 12.4% due to changes in customer mix.
Gross profit margin in our value-added resellers and integrators market decreased from 24.6% to 23.8%.
Agreements or arrangements on which these relationships are based typically do not include any obligation in respect of any specific product purchase or sale, are of limited duration, and are terminable by either party upon relatively short notice.
Total selling, general and administrative expenses decreased by $3.7 million for the second quarter of fiscal 2020, compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2019.
These decreases were largely due to the decline in overall revenues.
We continually evaluate the credit worthiness of our existing customer receivable portfolio and provide an appropriate reserve based on this evaluation.
We also evaluate the credit worthiness of prospective and current customers and make decisions regarding extension of credit terms to such customers based on this evaluation.
Net interest expense increased from $244,800 for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 to $335,100 for the second quarter of fiscal 2020.
Increased focus on business opportunities for sales to our public carrier customers has required us to maintain increased inventory levels, and at times has resulted in increased borrowings and interest expense under our secured Revolving Credit Facility (discussed in Note 4 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q).


item3.txt



item4.txt
Controls and Procedures.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings.


