fls.txt



item1.txt
The Company takes orders in several ways, including phone, fax, online and through electronic data interchange.
In management’s opinion, the accompanying interim consolidated financial statements of the Company include all adjustments, consisting only of normal, recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of the Company’s financial position for the interim periods presented.
These statements are presented in accordance with the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).
The results of operations presented in the accompanying interim consolidated financial statements are not necessarily representative of operations for an entire year.
In February 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No.
This ASU requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets related to the rights and obligations created by those leases.
The ASU also requires additional qualitative and quantitative disclosures related to the nature, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years.
In August 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No.
Specifically, payments for debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs, including third-party costs, premiums paid, and other fees paid to lenders that are directly related to the debt prepayment or debt extinguishment, excluding accrued interest, will now be classified as financing activities.
Previously, these payments were classified as operating expenses.
In March 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No.
The adoption of this provision was applied prospectively.


item2.txt
This commentary should be read in conjunction with the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations from the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 26, 2017.
We experienced third quarter fiscal 2018 revenue growth within our commercial segments of 4.2% and a decrease in revenue in the retail segment of 7.9%.
The growth in our commercial segment is driven by increases in our government, private system operators and value-added resellers market.
The decline in our public carrier market is primarily due to timing-related order delays.
increased in our base station infrastructure category by 9.8%.
Revenue decreased in our network systems; our installation, test and maintenance; and our mobile device accessories categories by 4.8%, 3.9% and 7.4%, respectively, for the third quarter of fiscal 2018, compared to the same quarter last year.
Total selling, general and administrative expenses decreased by 1.6% compared to the prior-year quarter.
The new tax law signed in December also provided a benefit of approximately $0.3 million in this year’s third quarter.
We believe, however, that our strength in service, the breadth and depth of our product offering, our information technology system, industry experience and knowledge, and our large customer base and purchasing relationships with approximately 450 manufacturers, provide us with a significant competitive advantage over new entrants to the marketplace.
We also experienced revenue growth within our private system operators and our value-added resellers markets of 8.4% and 8.0%, respectively, over the prior year quarter.
Revenues in our public carrier market decreased by 12.1%, due to timing-related order delays.
Gross profit for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 decreased by 1.2% compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2017.
Overall gross profit margin decreased slightly from 20.4% in the third quarter of fiscal 2017 to 20.2% in the third quarter of fiscal 2018.


item3.txt
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.


item4.txt
Controls and Procedures.


part2.txt
Legal Proceedings.
Item 1A.


