fls.txt



item1.txt
The Company takes orders in several ways, including phone, fax, online and through electronic data interchange.
In management’s opinion, the accompanying interim Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company include all adjustments, consisting only of normal, recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of the Company’s financial position for the interim periods presented.
The results of operations presented in the accompanying interim Consolidated Financial Statements are not necessarily representative of operations for an entire year.
In February 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No.
This ASU requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets related to the rights and obligations created by those leases.
The ASU also requires additional qualitative and quantitative disclosures related to the nature, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years.
In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
Specifically, payments for debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs, including third-party costs, premiums paid, and other fees paid to lenders that are directly related to the debt prepayment or debt extinguishment, excluding accrued interest, will now be classified as financing activities.
Previously, these payments were classified as operating expenses.
This liability represents the obligation to return customer consideration.
Prior periods were not adjusted to reflect this change.
The Company’s selling, general and administrative expenses for the fiscal quarter ended July 1, 2018 included $320,500 of non-cash stock-based compensation expense.
The Company’s selling, general and administrative expenses for the fiscal quarter ended June 25, 2017 included $247,600 of non-cash stock-based compensation expense.


item2.txt
We experienced first quarter fiscal 2019 revenue growth within our commercial segments of 16.2% and a decrease in revenue in the retail segment of 7.9%, as compared to the first fiscal quarter of 2018.
The growth in our commercial segment was driven by increases in our public carrier, government and, private system operators markets.
For the retail segment, year over year, revenue declined due, in part, to the timing of two Samsung Galaxy phone launches.
Revenue decreased in our network systems and our mobile device accessories categories by 4.4% and 7.4%, respectively, for the first quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to the same quarter last year.
Our first quarter fiscal year 2019 gross profit increased by 5.3%, compared to the first quarter of fiscal year 2018.
Total selling, general and administrative expenses increased by 3.9% compared to the prior-year quarter.
As a result of the factors discussed above, net income increased by 69.6% and diluted earnings per share increased by 62.5% compared to the prior-year quarter.
We believe, however, that our strength in service, the breadth and depth of our product offering, our information technology system, industry experience and knowledge, and our large customer base and purchasing relationships with approximately 440 manufacturers, provide us with a significant competitive advantage over new entrants to the marketplace.
We also experienced revenue growth within our government and private system operators markets of 9.3% and 2.8%, respectively, over the prior year quarter.
The increase in revenue for our private system operators is primarily driven by increases from manufacturing and mining customers.
Revenues in our value-added resellers market decreased slightly by 1.0%.


item3.txt
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.


item4.txt
Controls and Procedures.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings.


