The Company takes orders in several ways, including phone, fax, online and through electronic data interchange.
In management’s opinion, the accompanying interim Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company include all adjustments, consisting only of normal, recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of the Company’s financial position for the interim periods presented.
In February 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No.
This ASU requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets related to the rights and obligations created by those leases.
The ASU also requires additional qualitative and quantitative disclosures related to the nature, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years.
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-13, Financial Instruments – Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments which amends the impairment model by requiring entities to use a forward-looking approach based on expected losses rather than incurred losses to estimate credit losses on certain types of financial instruments, including trade receivables.We experienced third quarter fiscal 2019 revenue growth within our commercial segment of 7.8% and a decrease in revenue in the retail segment of 2.1%, as compared to the third fiscal quarter of 2018.
As a result of the factors discussed above, net income increased by 72.2% and diluted earnings per share increased by 68.4% compared to the prior-year quarter.
Consolidation of larger wireless carriers has and will most likely continue to impact our current and potential customer base.
We believe, however, that our strength in service, the breadth and depth of our product offering, our information technology system, industry experience and knowledge, and our large customer base and purchasing relationships with approximately 440 manufacturers, provide us with a significant competitive advantage over new entrants to the marketplace.
Revenues in our public carrier market increased by 47.9%.
This growth was primarily driven by our ability to expand market share with Tier 1 Carrier installers and contractors.
Overall gross profit margin increased slightly from 20.2% in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 to 20.4% in the third quarter of fiscal 2019.
Gross profit in our value-added resellers and integrators market decreased by 0.4%.
Within our retail segment, gross profit increased by 0.5% in the third quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to 2018.Legal Proceedings.