fls.txt
In June 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued ASU No.


item1.txt
The Company takes orders in several ways, including phone, fax, online and through electronic data interchange.
In management’s opinion, the accompanying interim Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company include all adjustments, consisting only of normal, recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of the Company’s financial position for the interim periods presented.
These statements are presented in accordance with the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) and have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”).
In June 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued ASU No.
2016-13, Financial Instruments – Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments which amends the impairment model by requiring entities to use a forward-looking approach based on expected losses rather than incurred losses to estimate credit losses on certain types of financial instruments, including trade receivables.
This ASU is effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2019.
This ASU requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets related to the rights and obligations created by those leases.
The ASU also requires additional qualitative and quantitative disclosures related to the nature, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
Prior periods were not adjusted to reflect this change.
Specifically, payments for debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs, including third-party costs, premiums paid, and other fees paid to lenders that are directly related to the debt prepayment or debt extinguishment, excluding accrued interest, are now classified as financing activities.
Previously, these payments were classified as operating expenses.
Adoption of this standard did not have an impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company, included herein.
Effective upon shareholder approval of the 2019 Stock and Incentive Plan, no additional awards may be granted under the 1994 Plan, although awards outstanding under the 1994 Plan remain outstanding and governed by its terms.


item2.txt
First quarter fiscal 2020 revenue in the commercial segment and retail segment decreased 6.8% and 28.8%, respectively, as compared to the first fiscal quarter of 2019.
The decline in our commercial segment revenue was driven by a decrease in our public carrier market due to the project-oriented nature of this business.
Among our product categories, revenue decreased in our base station infrastructure, network systems, installation, test and maintenance, and mobile device accessories categories by 7.1%, 1.0%, 18.9% and 28.7%, respectively, for the first quarter of fiscal 2020, as compared to the same quarter last year.
Our first quarter fiscal year 2020 gross profit decreased by 17.7%, compared to the first quarter of fiscal year 2019.
Selling, General and Administrative expenses for the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 were down 3.0% compared to the first quarter fiscal year 2019.
The decrease is related to decreased compensation, benefits, and rewards expense.
The Company also incurred a restructuring charge related to severance expenses.
As a result, net income decreased by $3.7 million or 315.2% and diluted earnings per share decreased by $0.42 or 323.1% compared to the prior-year quarter.
In addition, the agreements or arrangements on which our customer and vendor relationships are based are typically of limited duration, typically do not include any obligation in respect of any specific product purchase or sale and are terminable by either party upon several months or otherwise relatively short notice.
Consolidation of larger wireless carriers has and will most likely continue to impact our current and potential customer base.
We believe, however, that our strength in service, the breadth and depth of our product offering, our information technology system, industry experience and knowledge, and our large customer base and purchasing relationships with approximately 400 manufacturers, provide us with a significant competitive advantage over new entrants to the marketplace.
Gross profit for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 decreased by 17.7% compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2019.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Controls and Procedures.


part2.txt
Legal Proceedings.
Item 1A.


