fls.txt
This may result in the earlier recognition of allowances for losses.


item1.txt
The Company takes orders in several ways, including phone, fax, online and through electronic data interchange.
In management’s opinion, the accompanying interim Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company include all adjustments, consisting only of normal, recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of the Company’s financial position for the interim periods presented.
The results of operations presented in the accompanying interim Consolidated Financial Statements are not necessarily representative of operations for an entire year.
In February 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No.
This ASU requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets related to the rights and obligations created by those leases.
The ASU also requires additional qualitative and quantitative disclosures related to the nature, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years.
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-13, Financial Instruments – Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments which amends the impairment model by requiring entities to use a forward-looking approach based on expected losses rather than incurred losses to estimate credit losses on certain types of financial instruments, including trade receivables.
This may result in the earlier recognition of allowances for losses.
This ASU is effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2019.
In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
Specifically, payments for debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs, including third-party costs, premiums paid, and other fees paid to lenders that are directly related to the debt prepayment or debt extinguishment, excluding accrued interest, will now be classified as financing activities.


item2.txt
We experienced second quarter fiscal 2019 revenue growth within our commercial segments of 11.0% and an increase in revenue in the retail segment of 5.9%, as compared to the second fiscal quarter of 2018.
For the retail segment, year over year, revenue increased due, in part, to successful execution of the iPhone XS and the XS Max launches as well as growth in Ventev mobile device accessory sales.
Revenue decreased in our network systems category by 22.7%, for the second quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to the same quarter last year.
Selling, General and Administrative expenses for the second quarter fiscal year 2019 were up 11% compared to the second quarter fiscal year 2018.
As a result of the factors discussed above, net income decreased by 32.9% and diluted earnings per share decreased by 33.3% compared to the prior-year quarter.
We believe, however, that our strength in service, the breadth and depth of our product offering, our information technology system, industry experience and knowledge, and our large customer base and purchasing relationships with approximately 440 manufacturers, provide us with a significant competitive advantage over new entrants to the marketplace.
This growth was primarily driven by our ability to expand market share with Tier 1 Carrier installers and contractors.
This new structure is expected to enhance sales opportunities across the consolidated group as well as provide better coverage to the customers and better align territories with supplier partners.
Overall gross profit margin decreased slightly from 20.6% in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 to 19.8% in the second quarter of fiscal 2019.
This decline was caused primarily due to higher freight expenses and change in customer mix.
We continue to experience margin compression within the public carrier market because of increases in sales with larger customers.
Within our retail market, gross profit decreased by 0.4% in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to 2018, due to higher freight costs, particularly air freight from foreign vendors.
Agreements or arrangements on which these relationships are based typically do not include any obligation in respect of any specific product purchase or sale, are of limited duration, and are terminable by either party upon relatively short notice.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Controls and Procedures.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings.


