fls.txt
The discussion set forth below, as well as other portions of this Quarterly Report, contains statements concerning potential future events.


item1.txt
It is not possible to predict with certainty whether or not the Company and its subsidiaries will ultimately be successful in any of these legal matters, or if not, what the impact might be.


item2.txt
This report has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC” or the “Commission”) in Washington, D.C. and can be obtained by contacting the SEC’s public reference operations or obtaining it through the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov.
The Company’s segments offer consumer products through its network of subsidiary distributors and independent dealers and distributors and some also maintain relationships with original equipment manufacturers (OEMs).
As indicated in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, the methodology used to allocate certain selling, general, and administrative expenses was refined in the first quarter of 2019.
Total unit sales in the third quarter of 2019 increased to 3,659 when compared to total unit sales of 3,527 in the third quarter of 2018.
The outdoor segment revenue increase was driven by sales growth in multiple product categories, led primarily by adventure watches.
The fitness segment revenue increase was primarily driven by strong sales in wearables and sales from Tacx, a newly acquired group of subsidiaries that designs and manufactures indoor bike trainers.
The total absolute dollar increase was primarily attributable to increased cooperative advertising in the outdoor, fitness, and marine segments, partially offset by decreased cooperative advertising in the auto and aviation segments.
As noted above and in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company refined its methodology to allocate certain selling, general and administrative expenses in the beginning of the 2019 fiscal year.
Considering the refined allocation methodology noted above, we estimate selling, general and administrative expenses for the 52-weeks ended December 29, 2018 would have been approximately $18 million more for the aviation segment, approximately $11 million less for the marine segment, approximately $7 million less for the outdoor segment, and not significantly different for the fitness and auto segments.
Research and development expense as a percent of revenue decreased 130 basis points when compared to the year-ago quarter and increased 7% in absolute dollars.
Our research and development spending is focused on product development, improving existing software capabilities, and exploring new categories.
In the current quarter, the operating income growth in absolute dollars and as a percent of revenue was primarily attributable to revenue growth, improved gross margin, and greater leverage of operating expenses, as discussed above.
Foreign currency gains and losses for the Company are typically driven by movements in the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling in relation to the U.S. Dollar.
The Taiwan Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin Corporation, the U.S. Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin (Europe) Ltd., and the Euro is the functional currency of most of our other European subsidiaries, although some transactions and balances are denominated in British Pounds.
Due to the relative size of the entities using a functional currency other than the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling, currency fluctuations related to these entities are not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s financial statements.
The $16.3 million currency loss recognized in the third quarter of 2019 was primarily due to the U.S. Dollar strengthening against the Euro and British Pound Sterling, partially offset by the U.S. Dollar strengthening against the Taiwan Dollar, within the 13-weeks ended September 28, 2019.
During this period, the U.S. Dollar strengthened 3.8% against the Euro and 3.2% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in losses of $9.8 million and $1.5 million, respectively, while the U.S. Dollar strengthened 0.3% against the Taiwan Dollar, resulting in a gain of $1.2 million.
During this period, the U.S. Dollar strengthened 0.7% against the Euro and 1.3% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in losses of $2.7 million and $0.6 million, respectively, while the U.S. Dollar remained relatively flat against the Taiwan Dollar.
The 310 basis points increase to the third quarter of 2019 effective tax rate compared to the prior year quarter is primarily due to a decrease in uncertain tax position reserves released due to expiring statutes of limitations in the third quarter of 2019 compared to the third quarter of 2018.
As discussed in Note 13 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, Switzerland corporate tax reform was approved by public referendum in May 2019 and enacted in October 2019.
The outdoor segment revenue increase was primarily driven by strong sales in adventure watches, golf and inReach product lines.
Fitness segment revenue increases were primarily driven by strong sales in wearables and sales from newly acquired Tacx.
Marine segment revenue increases were driven by sales growth in multiple product categories, led primarily by chartplotters and sonar products.
Gross profit dollars in the 39-week period ended September 28, 2019 increased 11% while gross margin remained relatively flat compared to the year-ago period.


item3.txt



