fls.txt
If any of the Company’s assumptions prove incorrect or should unanticipated circumstances arise, actual results could materially differ from those anticipated by such forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
The following information supplements and amends the discussion set forth under Part I, Item 3 “Legal Proceedings” in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2017 and the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2018.
On February 21, 2018, PulseOn Oy filed an application with the Court of Appeal in England seeking leave to appeal the judgment of the Patent Court issued on January 18, 2018, holding that no accused Garmin products infringed either of the Registered Community Designs asserted by PulseOn Oy.


item2.txt
This report has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC” or the “Commission”) in Washington, D.C. and can be obtained by contacting the SEC’s public reference operations or obtaining it through the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov.
Readers are strongly encouraged to consider those factors when evaluating any forward-looking statement concerning the Company.
The Company is a leading worldwide provider of navigation, communications and information devices, most of which are enabled by Global Positioning System, or GPS, technology.
Adoption of the new revenue recognition standard was applied using the full retrospective method, and information for prior periods within Results of Operations have been restated accordingly.
The segment table located in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements sets forth the Company’s results of operations (in thousands) including net sales, gross profit, and operating income for each of the Company’s five segments during the periods shown.
The outdoor, aviation, marine, and fitness segments collectively increased by 16%, contributing 80% of total revenue.
Auto revenue represented the largest portion of our revenue mix in the third quarter of 2017 at 26% and declined to 20% in the third quarter of 2018.
Total unit sales in the third quarter of 2018 increased to 3,527 when compared to total unit sales of 3,492 in the third quarter of 2017.
Outdoor, fitness, marine, and aviation segment revenue increased 13%, 14%, 28%, and 17%, respectively, when compared to the year-ago quarter.
The outdoor and fitness segment revenue increases were primarily driven by strong sales in wearables.
The aviation segment revenue increase was driven by increased sales across most product lines within the segment.
The aviation segment decrease in cost of goods as a percent of revenue was primarily driven by a reduction in warranty costs compared to the year-ago quarter.
Gross profit dollars in the third quarter of 2018 increased 10% while gross margin increased 110 basis points compared to the year-ago quarter.
The decrease in absolute dollars and as a percent of revenue in the auto segment was primarily attributable to a current quarter reduction in legal related costs compared to the year-ago quarter.
Our research and development spending is focused on product development, improving existing software capabilities, and exploring new categories.
The growth in operating income in absolute dollars and as a percent of revenue was primarily attributable to revenue growth and increased gross margins, as discussed above.
Foreign currency gains and losses for the Company are typically driven by movements in the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling in relation to the U.S. Dollar.
The Taiwan Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin Corporation, the U.S. Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin (Europe) Ltd., and the Euro is the functional currency of most of our other European subsidiaries, although some transactions and balances are denominated in British Pounds.
The majority of the Company’s consolidated foreign currency gain or loss is typically driven by the significant cash and marketable securities, receivables and payables held in a currency other than the functional currency at a given legal entity.
During this period, the U.S. Dollar strengthened 0.7% against the Euro and 1.3% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in losses of $2.7 million and $0.6 million, respectively, while the U.S. Dollar remained relatively flat against the Taiwan Dollar.
During this period, the U.S. Dollar weakened 3.4% against the Euro and 2.8% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in gains of $8.0 million and $0.7 million, respectively, while the U.S. Dollar weakened 0.3% against the Taiwan Dollar, resulting in a loss of $1.6 million.


item3.txt
There have been no material changes during the 13-week and 39-week periods ended September 29, 2018 in the risks described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K related to market sensitivity, inflation, foreign currency exchange rate risk and interest rate risk.


