fls.txt
If any of the Company’s assumptions prove incorrect or should unanticipated circumstances arise, actual results could materially differ from those anticipated by such forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
The following information supplements and amends the discussion set forth under Part I, Item 3 "Legal Proceedings" in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2017.


item2.txt
This report has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC" or the "Commission") in Washington, D.C. and can be obtained by contacting the SEC's public reference operations or obtaining it through the SEC's website at http://www.sec.gov.
Readers are strongly encouraged to consider those factors when evaluating any forward-looking statement concerning the Company.
Adoption of the new revenue recognition standard was applied using the full retrospective method, and information for prior periods within Results of Operations have been restated accordingly.
The segment table located in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements sets forth the Company’s results of operations (in thousands) including net sales, gross profit, and operating income for each of the Company’s five segments during the periods shown.
For each line item in the table, the total of the outdoor, fitness, marine, auto, and aviation segments' amounts equals the amount in the condensed consolidated statements of income included in Item 1.
The current quarter marine increase of 9% was primarily driven by sales of the newly acquired Navionics business.
Fitness segment revenues increased 20% from the year-ago quarter, primarily driven by advanced wearables and newly introduced products.
Gross profit dollars in the first quarter of 2018 increased 14% while gross margin increased 190 basis points compared to the first quarter of 2017.
The overall decrease in absolute dollars was driven primarily by decreased cooperative advertising associated with customer mix and fitness media, partially offset by an increase in outdoor media.
Selling, general and administrative expense increased 15% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenues compared to the year-ago quarter.
The marine segment increase as a percent of revenues was primarily due to expenses resulting from prior year acquisitions in the first quarter of 2018.
In absolute dollars, research and development costs increased $19.8 million when compared with the year-ago quarter and increased 90 basis points as a percent of revenue.
Our research and development spending is focused on product development, improving existing software capabilities, and exploring new categories.
Foreign currency gains and losses for the Company are typically driven by movements in the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling in relation to the U.S. Dollar.
The majority of the Company’s consolidated foreign currency gain or loss is typically driven by the significant cash and marketable securities, receivables and payables held in a currency other than the functional currency at a given legal entity.
The $0.8 million currency gain recognized in the first quarter of 2018 was primarily due to the weakening of the U.S. Dollar against the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling within the 13-weeks ended March 31, 2018.
During this period, the U.S. Dollar weakened 2.7% against the Euro and 3.7% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in gains of $8.8 million and $2.0 million, respectively, while the U.S. Dollar weakened 2.0% against the Taiwan Dollar, resulting in a loss of $12.7 million.
The $37.5 million currency loss recognized in the first quarter of 2017 was primarily due to the weakening of the U.S. Dollar against the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling within the 13-weeks ended April 1, 2017.


item3.txt
There have been no material changes during the 13-week period ended March 31, 2018 in the risks described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K related to market sensitivity, inflation, foreign currency exchange rate risk and interest rate risk.


