fls.txt
The discussion set forth below, as well as other portions of this Quarterly Report, contains statements concerning potential future events.


item1.txt
It is not possible to predict with certainty whether or not the Company and its subsidiaries will ultimately be successful in any of these legal matters, or if not, what the impact might be.


item2.txt
This report has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC” or the “Commission”) in Washington, D.C. and can be obtained by contacting the SEC’s public reference operations or obtaining it through the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov.
Readers are strongly encouraged to consider those factors when evaluating any forward-looking statement concerning the Company.
The Company’s segments offer consumer products through its network of subsidiary distributors and independent dealers and distributors and some also maintain relationships with original equipment manufacturers (OEMs).
As indicated in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, the methodology used to allocate certain selling, general, and administrative expenses was refined in the first quarter of 2019.
Total unit sales in the second quarter of 2019 increased to 3,838 when compared to total unit sales of 3,783 in the second quarter of 2018.
The current quarter marine segment revenue increase was primarily driven by sales growth in chartplotters and sonar products.
Advertising expense as a percent of revenue was slightly lower when compared to the year-ago quarter and decreased 5% in absolute dollars.
The total absolute dollar decrease was primarily attributable to decreased cooperative advertising and point-of-sale display advertising expense in the auto segment and decreased media advertising in the fitness segment, slightly offset by increased media and cooperative advertising in the outdoor segment.
Selling, general and administrative expense increased 7% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue compared to the year-ago quarter.
As noted above and in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company refined its methodology to allocate certain selling, general and administrative expenses in the beginning of the 2019 fiscal year.
For comparative purposes, we estimate selling, general and administrative expenses for the second quarter of 2018 would have been approximately $5 million more for the aviation segment, approximately $4 million less for the marine segment, approximately $1 million less for the outdoor segment, and not significantly different for the fitness and auto segments.
Considering the refined allocation methodology noted above, we estimate selling, general and administrative expenses for the 52-weeks ended December 29, 2018 would have been approximately $18 million more for the aviation segment, approximately $11 million less for the marine segment, approximately $7 million less for the outdoor segment, and not significantly different for the fitness and auto segments.
Research and development expense as a percent of revenue was relatively flat compared to the year-ago quarter and increased 5% in absolute dollars.
Our research and development spending is focused on product development, improving existing software capabilities, and exploring new categories.
In the current quarter, the operating income growth in absolute dollars was primarily attributable to revenue growth and gross margin improvement.
The increase in operating income as a percent of revenue was primarily attributable to improved gross margin and leverage of operating expenses, as discussed above.
The Taiwan Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin Corporation, the U.S. Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin (Europe) Ltd., and the Euro is the functional currency of most of our other European subsidiaries, although some transactions and balances are denominated in British Pounds.
The majority of the Company’s consolidated foreign currency gain or loss is typically driven by the significant cash and marketable securities, receivables and payables held in a currency other than the functional currency at a given legal entity.
The $3.4 million currency gain recognized in the second quarter of 2019 was primarily due to the U.S. Dollar weakening against the Euro and strengthening against the Taiwan Dollar, partially offset by the U.S. Dollar strengthening against the British Pound Sterling, within the 13-weeks ended June 29, 2019.
During this period, the U.S. Dollar weakened 1.4% against the Euro and strengthened 0.3% against the Taiwan Dollar, resulting in gains of $3.7 million and $1.7 million, respectively, while the U.S. Dollar strengthened 2.6% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in a loss of $0.7 million.
The $2.6 million currency gain recognized in the second quarter of 2018 was primarily due to the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against the Taiwan Dollar, partially offset by the U.S. Dollar strengthening against the Euro and British Pound Sterling within the 13-weeks ended June 30, 2018.
During this period, the U.S. Dollar strengthened 4.7% against the Taiwan Dollar, resulting in a gain of $26.7 million, while the U.S. Dollar strengthened 5.2% against the Euro and 5.8% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in losses of $14.0 million and $1.9 million, respectively.


item3.txt



item4.txt
The Company maintains a system of disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to provide reasonable assurance that information, which is required to be timely disclosed, is accumulated and communicated to management in a timely fashion.
As of June 29, 2019, the Company carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of the Company’s management, including the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures.


