Item 4.Controls and Procedures
Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
Our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”)) are designed to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed in our reports filed or submitted under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC rules and forms.
Our disclosure controls and procedures are also designed to ensure that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, to allow timely decisions regarding disclosure.
Our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, with the assistance of our Disclosure Committee, have conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this Quarterly Report.
We perform this evaluation on a quarterly basis so that the conclusions concerning the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures can be reported in our Annual Report and Quarterly Reports.
Based on this evaluation, our principal executive officer and principal financial officer have concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this Quarterly Report.
Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting
•updates to our policies and procedures for revenue recognition, including assessment of SSP and documentation processes related to meeting the new criteria for revenue recognition;
•changes to our contract review controls to take into account the new criteria for recognizing revenue, with specific focus on assessing whether the allocation objective is met;
•the addition of controls for reviewing recoverability of contract assets and reevaluation of our significant contract judgments and estimates on a periodic basis; and
•the addition of controls to address related required disclosures, including processes to evaluate changes in contract assets and liabilities and disaggregation of revenue.
Other than as described above relating to the adoption of Topic 606, there have been no changes in our internal control over financial reporting during the most recent fiscal quarter that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
Item 4.Mine Safety Disclosures
Not applicable.
Item 5.Other Information
None.
Item 6.Exhibits
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
