 Item 2.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This quarterly report on Form 10-Q (this “Quarterly Report”) contains forward-looking statements relating to our future financial performance, business strategy, financing plans and other future events that involve uncertainties and risks.
You can identify these statements by forward-looking words such as “anticipate,” “intend,” “plan,” “continue,” “could,” “grow,” “may,” “potential,” “predict,” “strive” “will,” “seek,” “estimate,” “believe,” “expect,” and similar expressions that convey uncertainty of future events or outcomes.
Any forward-looking statements we make herein are pursuant to the safe harbor provision of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements include statements concerning future:
   •
results of operations;
   •
liquidity, cash flow and capital expenditures;
   •
demand for and pricing of our products and services;
   •
annual contract value (“ACV”);
   •
viability and effectiveness of strategic alliances;
   •
industry conditions and market conditions;
   •
acquisition activities and the effect of completed acquisitions; and
   •
general economic conditions.
Although we believe that the goals, plans, expectations, and prospects that our forward-looking statements reflect are reasonable in view of the information currently available to us, those statements are not guarantees of performance.
There are many factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by forward-looking statements made herein.
These factors include, but are not limited to, continuing U.S. and global economic uncertainty, the timing and degree of business recovery, unpredictability and the irregular pattern of future revenues, dependence on particular market segments or customers, competitive pressures, delays, product liability and warranty claims and other risks associated with new product development, undetected software errors, market acceptance of our products, technological complexity, the challenges and risks associated with integration of acquired product lines, companies and services, as well as a number of other risk factors that could affect our future performance.
All forward-looking statements included in Quarterly Report are based upon information available to us as of the filing date of this Quarterly Report.
We undertake no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements for any reason.
These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these statements.
We discuss certain factors in greater detail in “Business Overview” below.
ECONOMIC OVERVIEW
Corporate capital spending trends and commitments are the primary determinants of the size of the market for business software.
Corporate capital spending is, in turn, a function of general economic conditions in the U.S. and abroad and in particular may be affected by conditions in global credit markets.
In October 2018, the International Monetary Fund (“IMF”) provided an update to the World Economic Outlook (“WEO”) for the 2018 and 2019 world economic growth forecast.
The update noted that, “Global growth is projected at 3.7 percent for 2018– 19—0.2 percentage point lower for both years than forecast in April.
In the United States, momentum is still strong as fiscal stimulus continues to increase, but the forecast for 2019 has been revised down due to recently announced trade measures, including the tariffs imposed on $200 billion of US imports from China.
Growth projections have been marked down for the euro area and the United Kingdom, following surprises that suppressed activity in early 2018.
Among emerging market and developing economies, the growth prospects of many energy exporters have been lifted by higher oil prices, but growth was revised down for Argentina, Brazil, Iran, and Turkey, among others, reflecting country-specific factors, tighter financial conditions, geopolitical tensions, and higher oil import bills.
China and a number of Asian economies are also projected to experience somewhat weaker growth in 2019 in the aftermath of the recently announced trade measures.”
For fiscal 2019, we expect the global economy to improve modestly when compared to the prior year.
We believe information technology spending will incrementally improve over the long term as increased global competition forces companies to improve productivity by upgrading their technology systems, which could result in an improved selling environment.
Although this improvement could slow or regress at any time, due in part to concerns in global capital markets and general economic conditions, we believe that our organizational and financial structure will enable us to take advantage of any sustained economic rebound.
Customers continue to take long periods to evaluate discretionary software purchases.
Table of Contents
We believe improved economic conditions may be driving some businesses to focus on achieving more process and efficiency enhancements in their operations and to invest in solutions that improve operating margins, rather than make large infrastructure-type technology purchases.
If this trend continues, we believe it may tend to favor solutions such as our supply chain solutions, which are designed to provide a more rapid return on investment and are targeted at some of the largest profit drivers in a customer’s business.
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
The SCM segment primarily consists of Logility, which is a leading provider of collaborative supply chain optimization and advanced retail planning solutions that help medium, large and Fortune 500 companies transform their supply chain operations to gain a competitive advantage and which is recognized for its high-touch approach to customer service, rapid implementations and industry-leading return on investment (ROI).
The SCM segment also includes (i) DMI, which delivers affordable, easy-to-use Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) supply chain planning solutions designed to increase forecast accuracy, improve customer service and reduce inventory to maximize profits and lower costs, (ii) NGC, which is a leading provider of cloud-based supply chain and product lifecycle management solutions for brands, retailers and consumer products companies, and (iii) Halo, which is an advanced analytics software provider leveraging an innovative blend of artificial intelligence and machine learning technology to drive greater supply chain performance.
The Other segment consists of (i) American Software ERP, which provides purchasing and materials management, customer order processing, financial, e-commerce and traditional manufacturing solutions, and (ii) corporate overhead and other common expenses.
Our cost of revenue for licenses includes amortization of capitalized computer software development costs, amortization of acquired developed technology, royalties paid to third-party software vendors, and agent commission expenses related to license revenues generated by the indirect channel, primarily from DMI.
Costs for maintenance and services include the cost of personnel to conduct implementations and customer support, consulting, other personnel-related expenses, and agent commission expenses related to maintenance revenues generated by the indirect channel, primarily from DMI.
We account for the development costs of software intended for sale in accordance with the Software topic of the FASB ASC.
We monitor the net realizable value of our capitalized software on a quarterly basis based on an estimate of future product revenues.
We currently expect to fully recover the value of the capitalized software asset recorded on our condensed consolidated balance sheet; however, if future product revenues are less than management’s current expectations, we may incur a write-down of capitalized software costs.
Our selling expenses mainly include the salary and commissions paid to our sales professionals, along with marketing, promotional, travel and associated costs.
Our general and administrative expenses mainly include the salary and benefits paid to executive, corporate and support personnel, as well as facilities-related costs, utilities, communications expenses, and various professional fees.
   •
Dependence on Capital Spending Patterns.
There is risk associated with our dependence on the capital spending patterns of U.S. and international businesses, which in turn are functions of economic trends and conditions over which we have no control.
   •
   •
Acquisition Risks.
There are risks associated with acquisitions of complementary companies, products and technologies, including the risks that we will not achieve the financial and strategic goals that we contemplate at the time of the transaction.
More specifically, in any acquisition we will face risks and challenges associated with the uncertain value of the acquired business or assets, the difficulty of assimilating operations and personnel, integrating acquired technologies and products and maintaining the loyalty of the customers of the acquired business.
Table of Contents
   •
Competitive Technologies.
There is a risk that our competitors may develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology.
   •
A discussion of a number of additional risk factors associated with our business is included in our Annual Report for the fiscal year ended April 30, 2018.
Additional information and other factors that could affect future financial results may be included, from time to time, in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
For information with respect to recent accounting pronouncements, if any, and the impact of these pronouncements on our consolidated financial statements, if any, see Note A in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report.
COMPARISON OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Table of Contents
COMPARISON OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE THREE AND SIX MONTHS ENDED OCTOBER 31, 2018 AND 2017
REVENUES
Table of Contents
For the three months ended October 31, 2018, the 6% increase in revenues over the three months ended October 31, 2017 was attributable primarily to a 64% increase in subscription fees revenues and to a lesser extent a 7% increase in maintenance revenues, when compared to the same period last year.
This increase was partially offset by a 18% decrease in license revenues.
For the six months ended October 31, 2018, the 4% increase in revenues over the six months ended October 31, 2017 was attributable primarily to a 78% increase in subscription fees revenues, and to a lesser extent a 7% increase in maintenance revenues and a 3% increase in professional services revenues, when compared to the same period last year.
This increase was partially offset by a 43% decrease in license revenues.
Due to intense competition in our industry, we sometimes discount license fees from our published list price.
Numerous factors contribute to the amount of the discount provided, such as previous customer purchases, the number of customer sites utilizing the software, the number of modules purchased and the number of users, as well as the overall size of the contract.
While all these factors may affect the discount amount of a particular contract, the overall percentage discount has not materially changed in the recent reported fiscal periods.
The change in our revenues from period to period is primarily due to the volume of products and related services sold in any period and the number of products or modules purchased with each sale.
International revenues represented approximately 20% of total revenues in the three and six months ended October 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Our revenues, in particular our international revenues, may fluctuate substantially from period to period primarily because we derive most of our license fee revenues from a relatively small number of customers in a given period.
License Revenues
For the three and six months ended October 31, 2018, license fee revenues decreased 18% and 43%, respectively, when compared to the same period in the prior year.
In the three and six months ended October 31, 2018, license fee revenues from our SCM segment decreased 21% and 44%, respectively, when compared to the corresponding periods in the prior year due to an increase in sales of our products on Logility’s cloud services platform that require revenue to be deferred over the life of the contracted period, which is typically one to three years.
For the three months ended October 31, 2018 and 2017, our SCM segment constituted approximately 96% and 100% of total license fee revenues, respectively.
For the six months ended October 31, 2018 and 2017, our SCM segment constituted approximately 97% and 100% of total license fee revenues, respectively.
Our Other segment license fee revenues increased by 627% and 355%, respectively, for the three and six months ended October 31, 2018 when compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to timing of additional sales to our existing ERP customers.
Table of Contents
The direct sales channel provided approximately 93% and 91% of license fee revenues for the three and six months ended October 31, 2018, compared to approximately 60% and 76% in the comparable periods last year.
The increase in the percentage of sales by our direct sales channel was due to our indirect channel selling proportionately more SaaS than license contracts compared to our direct channel.
For the three and six months ended October 31, 2018, our margins after commissions on direct sales were approximately 85% and 88%, compared to 91% and 86% in the comparable periods last year.
The decrease in margins is due to the mix of sales commission rates based on each individual salesperson’s quotas and related achievement.
For the three months ended October 31, 2018 and 2017, our margins after commissions on indirect sales were approximately 60% and 43%, respectively.
For the six months ended October 31, 2018 and 2017, our margins after commissions on indirect sales were approximately 55% and 37%, respectively.
The indirect channel margins for the current quarter increased compared to the same periods in the prior year due to the mix of value-added reseller (“VAR”) commission rates.
These margin calculations include only commission expense for comparative purposes and do not include other costs of license fees such as amortization of capitalized software.
Subscription Fees
For the three and six months ended October 31, 2018, subscription fees revenues increased by 64% and 78%, respectively, primarily due to the increased subscription fees revenues from our SCM segment which increased sales of our products on our cloud services platform that require revenue to be deferred over the life of the contracted period, which is typically one to three years.
For the six months ended October 31, 2018, cloud services ACV increased approximately 46% to $14.5 million compared to $9.9 million in the same period of the prior year due to increased sales of our products on our Cloud Services platform that require revenue to be deferred over the life of the contracted period, which is typically one to three years.
ACV is a forward-looking operating measure used by management to better understand cloud services (SaaS and other related cloud services) revenue trends within our business, as it reflects our current estimate of revenue to be generated under existing client contracts in the forward 12-month period.
Professional Services and other revenues
Table of Contents
For the three and six months ended October 31, 2018, professional services and other revenues were flat and increased by 3%, respectively, due to the increased professional services and other revenues from our Other and IT Consulting segments.
This increase was partially offset by a decrease in professional services and other revenues from our SCM segment.
For the three and six months ended October 31, 2018, our Other segment’s revenues increased 53% and 22% when compared to the same periods last year.
For the three and six months ended October 31, 2018, our IT Consulting segment’s revenues increased 14% and 18% when compared to the same periods in the prior year due to an increase in project work from existing and new customers.
For the three and six months ended October 31, 2018, our SCM segment’s revenues decreased 11% and 9%, primarily because certain implementation project work ended during the quarter before new projects could start.
We have observed that there is a tendency for services and other revenues, other than from IT Consulting, to lag changes in license and subscription revenues by one to three quarters, as new licenses and subscriptions in one quarter often involve implementation and consulting services in subsequent quarters, for which we recognize revenues only as we perform those services.
Maintenance Revenues
For the three and six months ended October 31, 2018, maintenance revenues increased 7% when compared to the same periods in the prior year.
Our SCM maintenance revenue increased 8% and 7% for the three and six months ended October 31, 2018, when compared to the same periods last year due primarily to our recent Halo acquisition in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 and improved customer retention.
The SCM segment accounted for 97% of total maintenance revenues for the three and six months ended October 31, 2018 and accounted for 97% and 93% for the same periods in the prior year.
Typically, our maintenance revenues have had a direct relationship to current and historic license fee revenues, since new licenses are the potential source of new maintenance customers.
GROSS MARGIN
Table of Contents
For the three and six months ended October 31, 2018, our total gross margin percentages decreased when compared to the same periods in the prior year primarily due to our lower margins on license fee revenue and professional services and other revenue, partially offset by higher margins on subscription fees and maintenance revenue.
Gross Margin on License Fees
License fee gross margin percentage for the three and six months ended October 31, 2018 decreased when compared to the same period in the prior year.
License fee gross margin percentage tends to be directly related to the level of license fee revenues due to the relatively fixed cost of computer software amortization expense, amortization of acquired software and the sales mix between our direct and indirect channels.
Gross Margin on Subscription Fees
Our gross margin percentage on subscription fees revenues increased from 56% and 52% for the three and six months ended October 31, 2017 to 61% and 64% for the three and six months ended October 31, 2018, respectively, primarily due to the increase in subscription revenue, combined with a lower incremental increase in cost.
Gross Margin on Professional Services and Other
Our gross margin percentage on professional services and other revenues decreased from 32% for the three months ended October 31, 2017 to 27% for the three months ended October 31, 2018.
Our gross margin percentage on professional services and other revenues decreased from 31% for the six months ended October 31, 2017 to 24% for the six months ended October 31, 2018.
This decrease was primarily due to lower gross margins in our SCM segment services of 28% and 32% for the three months ended October 31, 2018 and 2017, and 23% and 31% for the six months ended October 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, due to lower billing utilization from several large projects ending during the quarter.
Our Other segment professional services gross margin increased from 28% to 51% for the three months ended October 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and from 33% to 45% for the six months ended October 31, 2018 and 2017, due to higher margin projects in the current quarter.
Our IT Consulting segment professional services gross margin increased from 23% to 24% for the three months ended October 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and 21% to 24% for the six months ended October 31, 2018 and 2017, due to higher margin projects in the current quarter.
Professional services and other gross margin is directly related to the level of services and other revenues.
The primary component of cost of services and other revenues is services staffing, which is relatively inelastic in the short term.
Gross Margin on Maintenance
Maintenance gross margin percentage for the three and six months ended October 31, 2018 increased to 81% from 79% when compared to the same periods last year due to an increase in maintenance revenue.
The primary cost component is maintenance staffing, which is relatively inelastic in the short term.
EXPENSES
Table of Contents
Research and Development
Included in cost of license fees and subscription fees.
For the three and six months ended October 31, 2018, gross product research and development costs increased 14% and 17%, respectively, when compared to the same periods in the previous year due partially to the recent Halo acquisition in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 and increased headcount in our SCM segment.
We expect capitalized product development costs to decrease due to timing of projects and we expect capitalized software amortization expense to be relatively stable in coming quarters.
Costs included in gross product development are salaries of product development personnel, hardware lease expense, computer software expense, telephone expense and rent.
Sales and Marketing
For the three and six months ended October 31, 2018, sales and marketing expenses increased 20% and 8%, respectively, when compared to the same periods a year ago, primarily due to increased headcount in our SCM segment.
General and Administrative
For the three and six months ended October 31, 2018, general and administrative expenses increased 22% and 20%, respectively, when compared to the same periods a year ago, primarily due to the recent Halo acquisition in the third quarter of fiscal 2018.
At October 31, 2018, the total number of employees was 452 compared to 390 at October 31, 2017.
Table of Contents
Includes all corporate overhead and other common expenses in fiscal 2019.
Our SCM segment operating income decreased by 15% and 27% in the three and six months ended October 31, 2018 compared to the same periods in the prior year primarily due to the recent Halo acquisition in the third quarter of fiscal 2018.
Our IT Consulting segment’s operating income increased by 11% and 28% for the three and six months ended October 31, 2018 compared to same periods last year primarily due to increased revenues and gross margins.
Our Other segment operating loss increased by 59% and 71% for the three and six months ended October 31, 2018 when compared to the same periods in the prior year because all corporate overhead and common expenses are included in this segment in fiscal 2019.
Other Income
Other income is comprised of net interest and dividend income, rental income, exchange rate gains and losses, and realized and unrealized gains and losses from investments.
For the three and six months ended October 31, 2018, the decrease in other income is mainly due to higher unrealized losses on investments when compared to the same periods last year.
We recorded losses of approximately $700,000 and $312,000 for the three and six months ended October 31, 2018, respectively, from our trading securities portfolio.
We recorded gains of approximately $268,000 and $381,000 the three and six months ended October 31, 2017, respectively, from our trading securities portfolio.
For the three and six months ended October 31, 2018, our investments generated an annualized yield of approximately 1.32% and 1.40%, respectively, compared to approximately 1.30% and 1.38% for the three and six months ended October 31, 2017, respectively.
Income Taxes
We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their tax bases.
We measure deferred tax assets and liabilities using statutory tax rates in effect in the year in which we expect the differences to reverse.
We establish a deferred tax asset for the expected future benefit of net operating loss and credit carry-forwards.
Under the Income Tax Topic of the FASB ASC, we cannot recognize a deferred tax asset for the future benefit of our net operating losses, tax credits and temporary differences unless we can establish that it is “more likely than not” that the deferred tax asset would be realized.
During the three and six months ended October 31, 2018, we recorded income tax expense of $93,000 and $68,000, respectively, primarily due to discrete stock compensation benefits of $12,000 and $286,000, respectively, net of normal income tax expense from operations.
After adjusting for these discrete tax benefits, our effective tax rate would have been 7.9% and 13.1%, respectively, in the three and six months ended October 31, 2018 compared to our tax effective rate of 36.7% and 36.0% in the three and six months ended October 31, 2017.
The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act enacted on December 22, 2017, which lowered our U.S. statutory federal income tax rate from 35% to 21%, was the primary driver of the reduction in our effective tax rate.
In addition, research and development and foreign tax credits reduced our effective tax rate by 8% and 3%, respectively, in the six months ended October 31, 2018, compared to reductions of 2% and 1%, respectively, in the six months ended October 31, 2017.
Operating Pattern
We experience an irregular pattern of quarterly operating results, caused primarily by fluctuations in both the number and size of software license and subscription contracts received and delivered from quarter to quarter and our ability to recognize revenues in that quarter in accordance with our revenue recognition policies.
We expect this pattern to continue.
Table of Contents
LIQUIDITY, CAPITAL RESOURCES AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
Sources and Uses of Cash
We have historically funded, and continue to fund, our operations and capital expenditures primarily with cash generated from operating activities.
The changes in net cash that our operating activities provide generally reflect the changes in net earnings and non-cash operating items plus the effect of changes in operating assets and liabilities, such as investment trading securities, trade accounts receivable, trade accounts payable, accrued expenses and deferred revenue.
We have no debt obligations or off-balance sheet financing arrangements, and therefore, we used no cash for debt service purposes.
Table of Contents
The following table shows information about our cash flows and liquidity positions during the six months ended October 31, 2018 and 2017.
You should read this table and the discussion that follows in conjunction with our condensed consolidated statements of cash flows contained in “Item 1” in Part I of this Quarterly Report and in our Annual Report for the fiscal year ended April 30, 2018.
The increase in cash used in investing activities when compared to the same period in the prior year was due primarily to an increase in purchases of property and equipment, partially offset by lower capitalized computer software development costs.
The increase in cash used in financing activities compared to the prior year was due primarily to an increase in dividends paid, partially offset by a decrease in proceeds from exercise of stock options.
Our total activities used more cash and investments during the six months ended October 31, 2018, when compared to the prior year period, primarily due to normal business operations.
Days Sales Outstanding in accounts receivable were 66 days as of October 31, 2018, compared to 57 days as of October 31, 2017.
This increase is primarily due to the timing of cash collections.
Our current ratio on October 31, 2018 was 2.8 to 1 and on October 31, 2017 was 2.7 to 1.
Our business in recent periods has generated substantial positive cash flow from operations, excluding purchases and proceeds of sale of trading securities.
For this reason, and because we had $82.7 million in cash and investments with no debt as of October 31, 2018, we believe that our sources of liquidity and capital resources will be sufficient to satisfy our presently anticipated requirements during at least the next twelve months for working capital, capital expenditures and other corporate needs.
However, at some future date we may need to seek additional sources of capital to meet our requirements.
If such need arises, we may be required to raise additional funds through equity or debt financing.
We do not currently have a bank line of credit.
We can provide no assurance that bank lines of credit or other financing will be available on terms acceptable to us.
If available, such financing may result in dilution to our shareholders or higher interest expense.
Table of Contents
On August 19, 2002, our Board of Directors approved a resolution authorizing the repurchase of up to an additional 2.0 million shares of our Class A common stock.
We have made and will make these repurchases through open market purchases at prevailing market prices.
The timing of any repurchase will depend upon market conditions, the market price of our common stock and management’s assessment of our liquidity and cash flow needs.
Under this repurchase plan, through October 31, 2018, we have repurchased 1,053,679 shares of common stock at a cost of approximately $6.2 million.
As of October 31, 2018, under all repurchase plans previously authorized, including this most recent plan, we have repurchased a total of 4,588,632 shares of common stock at a cost of approximately $25.6 million.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES
We believe the critical accounting policies listed below affect significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of the condensed consolidated financial statements.
Revenue Recognition.
For information with respect to revenue recognition policy, see Notes A and B in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report.
Stock-Based Compensation.
We estimate the value of options granted on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
Management’s judgments and assumptions related to volatility, the expected term and the forfeiture rate are made in connection with the calculation of stock-based compensation expense.
We periodically review all assumptions used in our stock option pricing model.
Changes in these assumptions could have a significant impact on the amount of stock-based compensation expense.
Income Taxes.
We provide for the effect of income taxes on our financial position and results of operations in accordance with the Income Tax Topic of the FASB ASC.
Under this accounting guidance, income tax expense is recognized for the amount of income taxes payable or refundable for the current year and for the change in net deferred tax assets or liabilities resulting from events that are recorded for financial reporting purposes in a different reporting period than recorded in the tax return.
Management must make significant assumptions, judgments and estimates to determine our current provision for income taxes and also our deferred tax assets and liabilities and any valuation allowance to be recorded against our net deferred tax asset.
Our judgments, assumptions and estimates relative to the current provision for income tax take into account current tax laws, our interpretation of current tax laws, allowable deductions, and projected tax credits.
Changes in tax law or our interpretation of tax laws could significantly impact the amounts provided for income taxes in our financial position and results of operations.
Our assumptions, judgments and estimates relative to the value of our deferred tax assets take into account our expectations of the amount and category of future taxable income.
Actual operating results and the underlying amount and category of income in future years, which could significantly increase tax expense, could render inaccurate our current assumptions, judgments and estimates of recoverable net deferred taxes.
Table of Contents
 Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
None
