fls.txt



item1.txt
Those amounts, or portions thereof, could become unrestricted based on a similar fact pattern.
During the quarter ended June 30, 2017, the Company identified the cause of these quality issues and began testing certain remedial solutions to repair the affected SkyWatch Towers.
Operating income as reviewed by the CODM is revenue less cost of goods sold and operating expenses, excluding general corporate expenses, amortization of purchased intangible assets, amortization of acquisition-related inventory step-up, loss on sale of a business and restructuring and other charges.
For example, in January 2016, the European Commission announced a decision concluding that certain rules under Belgian tax legislation are deemed to be incompatible with European Union regulations on state aid.
We cannot assure that employees will not leave and subsequently compete against us.
In addition, the Company also recorded net tax expense of $15.1 million for state income and foreign taxes estimated to be due upon distribution of approximately $1.0 billion of previously undistributed foreign earnings no longer permanently reinvested as of December 31, 2017.
The Company has filed a complaint against the Belgian tax assessments, and the result of this complaint, the appeal with the General Court of the European Union, new information received from the Belgian Government, or other future events may cause the income tax provision associated with the decision to be entirely or partially reversed.
As we have grown, the size and scope of our worldwide operations have also increased substantially.
Our ability to meet our debt service obligations and comply with the financial covenants under our credit facility will be dependent upon our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control.
Substantial uncertainty exists in the spending levels and priorities of the United States government, particularly with respect to military expenditures.
and other lenders, as amended on April 5, 2013, October 27, 2015 and May 31, 2016 (the "Credit Agreement") which provides for a $500 million revolving line of credit.
As of March 31, 2018, the Company has not completed the accounting for the tax effects of the Tax Act described above and there have been no material changes to estimated amounts.
As a result of this decision, the European Commission has directed the Belgian Government to recover past taxes from certain entities, reflective of disallowed state aid, which impacts one of the Company’s international subsidiaries.
The Company and each of its segments employ consistent accounting policies.
The effect of stock-based compensation awards for the three months ended March 31, 2017 that aggregated 18,000 shares have been excluded for purposes of diluted earnings per share since the effect of their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive.
Note 16.Contingencies - (Continued)


item2.txt
Consequently, year over year comparisons for any given quarter may not be indicative of comparisons using longer time periods.
Cost of goods sold for the three months ended March 31, 2018 were $221.7 million, compared to cost of goods sold for the three months ended March 31, 2017 of $215.5 million.
Research and development expenses.
The amendments in this update require the identification of arrangements that should be accounted for as leases by lessees.
The increase in earnings from operations for the three-month period ended March 31, 2018, compared to the same periods in 2017, was primarily due to higher revenues and favorable product mix.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Those amounts, or portions thereof, could become unrestricted based on a similar fact pattern.
We maintain product liability insurance but cannot be certain that it will be sufficient or will continue to be available on acceptable terms.
Our industry is subject to rapid changes in technology, which may result in unexpected obsolescence or impairment of our assets.
We record accruals for liabilities where we believe a loss to be probable and reasonably estimable.
Many of our proprietary rights are held in confidence as trade secrets and are not covered by patents, making them more difficult to protect.
As we have grown, the size and scope of our worldwide operations have also increased substantially.
Some expenses, such as those related to research and development activities, would likely be maintained in the event of a sales downturn in order to maintain and enhance the long-term competitiveness of the Company.
In addition, our international contracts may include industrial cooperation agreements requiring specific in-country purchases, investments, manufacturing agreements or other financial obligations, known as offset obligations, and may provide for penalties if we fail to meet such requirements.


