fls.txt



item1.txt
At June 30, 2019, the effective interest rate on the Swedish kronor term loan which includes the impact of the floored swap was 1.840 percent.
The Company is managing its interest rate risk related to certain floating rate debt through a floored amortizing interest rate swap (“floored swap”) in which the Company receives floating rate payments subject to a floor of zero percent and makes fixed rate payments.
The Company regularly enters into contracts that can include various combinations of products and services, which are generally capable of being distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations.
Such acquisitions may vary in size and complexity.
Revenue is recognized net of allowances for returns and net of taxes collected from customers which are subsequently remitted to governmental authorities.
The lack of clarity about Brexit and the future U.K. laws and regulations creates uncertainty for us, as the outcome of these negotiations may affect our business and operations.
These security measures are subject to third-party security breaches, employee error, malfeasance, faulty password management or other irregularities.
However, for certain contracts that include highly customized components, if performance does not create an asset with an alternative use and termination for convenience clauses provide an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date, revenue is recognized over time as the performance obligation is satisfied.
The Company reviews these provisions to reflect the impact of negotiations, settlements, rulings, advice of legal counsel and other information and events pertaining to a particular matter.
These regulations include import and export laws, anti-competition laws, anti-corruption laws, such as the FCPA and the U.K.
The Company has an Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the “ESPP”) which allows employees to purchase shares of the Company’s common stock at 85 percent of the fair market value at the lower of either the date of enrollment or the purchase date.
Of the amounts accrued, none are expected to be due within one year.
In particular, cybersecurity threats-which include, but are not limited to, computer viruses, spyware and malware, attempts to access information, denial of service attacks and other electronic security breaches-are persistent and evolve quickly.
The Company has elected to apply the short-term lease exemption in accordance with guidance, and therefore, short-term leases (leases with a term of twelve months or less) are not recorded on the balance sheet.
On July 29, 2019, the plaintiff informed the court that the plaintiff would not file a second amended complaint.
The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of FLIR Systems, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries.


item2.txt
The increase in revenue for the six month period was predominately attributable to strong growth across the cooled cores product lines partially offset by declines in the Instruments and Integrated Imaging Systems (IIS) businesses.
Industrial business unit revenue for the six months ended June 30, 2019 increased by 2.6%, compared to the same period of 2018.
Interest expense.
Of the amounts accrued, none are expected to be due within one year.
Research and development expenses as a percentage of revenue were 11.0 percent for the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 10.3 percent for the three months ended June 30, 2018.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
We will continue to make substantial capital expenditures and incur significant research and development costs to improve our manufacturing capability, reduce costs, and develop and introduce new products and enhancements.
Such an occurrence could cause LIBOR to stop publication or cause LIBOR to no longer be representative of the underlying market.
•the timing of orders and shipments within a given fiscal quarter.
We have significant operations and a substantial workforce in Europe, a portion of which reside in the U.K. and therefore enjoy certain benefits based on the U.K.’s membership in the EU.
We have made twelve acquisitions of various sizes in the past five years.
Other companies may seek to acquire or merge with us.
Additionally, any development that has the effect of devaluing the European euro or British pound sterling could meaningfully reduce the value of our assets and reduce the usefulness of liquidity alternatives denominated in that currency, such as our multicurrency credit facility.


