fls.txt



item1.txt
Further, a variety of technological tools and systems, including both company-owned information technology and technological services provided by outside parties, support our critical functions.
The final allocation of the purchase price to identified intangible assets, goodwill and related tax attributes is subject to final determination of fair value and is expected to be finalized during the fourth quarter of 2019.
Additionally, any development that has the effect of devaluing the European euro or British pound sterling could meaningfully reduce the value of our assets and reduce the usefulness of liquidity alternatives denominated in that currency, such as our multicurrency credit facility.
Products include thermal imaging cameras, gas detection cameras, firefighting cameras, process automation cameras, and environmental test and measurement devices.
On March 21, 2019, instead of opposing the defendants' motion, the plaintiff filed an amended complaint.
We maintain inventories of finished goods, components and raw materials at levels we believe are necessary to meet anticipated sales.
Our inability to meet our debt service obligations or comply with the required covenants could result in a default under the credit facility or indenture.
In the event of any such default under our indenture, either the trustee or the holders of at least 25 percent of the outstanding principal amount of the Notes could declare the principal amount of all of the Notes to be due and payable immediately.
Our inability to meet our debt service obligations or comply with the required covenants could result in a default under the credit facility or indenture.
On July 22, 2019, after complete briefing and oral argument, the court granted the defendants’ motion to dismiss the amended complaint without prejudice and with leave to amend.
However, our actual costs may differ materially from these estimates.
For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, approximately 29 percent, 26 percent and 25 percent, respectively, of our revenues were derived directly or indirectly from sales to the United States government and its agencies.
Furthermore, we might assume or incur additional debt or issue additional equity securities to pay for future acquisitions.
In May 2017, the Company submitted an initial notification to DDTC regarding potential violations related to certain export classifications obtained through the commodity jurisdiction process and a final voluntary disclosure in August 2017.
This disposal did not qualify as discontinued operations and therefore, its operating results were included in the Company’s continuing operations for all periods presented through the date of the sale.
As no single amount within the range is a better estimate than any other amount within the range, the Company has recorded an accrual of $5.0 million in other current liabilities as of September 30, 2019.


item2.txt
Research and development expenses as a percentage of revenue were 10.6 percent for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 9.7 percent for the three months ended September 30, 2018.
2016-13, "Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments ("ASU 2016-13" or "Topic 326"), which significantly changes the way entities recognize impairment of many financial assets by requiring immediate recognition of estimated credit losses expected to occur over their remaining life.
September 30, 2019 compared to same period in 2018 while operating margins declined for the same periods.
Additionally, we repaid in full all outstanding amounts, consisting of revolving loans in an aggregate principal amount of $375.0 million, under the Existing Credit Agreement.
The increase of cash provided by operating activities in 2019 compared to 2018 was primarily due to changes in working capital balances driven by an increase in accounts payable, partially offset by a decrease in inventories.
The increase in revenue for the nine month period was predominately attributable to strong growth across the cooled cores product lines partially offset by declines in the Instruments and Integrated Imaging Systems (IIS) businesses.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, research and development, and marketing resources than we do.
We face certain security threats and technology disruptions, including threats to our information technology infrastructure, attempts to gain access to our or our customers’ proprietary or classified information, threats to the physical security of our facilities and employees, threats of terrorism events, and failures of our technology tools and systems.
LIBOR has been the subject of recent national, international and other regulatory guidance and proposals for reform and it is expected that a number of banks currently reporting information used to set LIBOR will stop doing so after 2021.
We record accruals for liabilities where we believe a loss to be probable and reasonably estimable.
The SEC Order settled charges under the FCPA with respect to incidents of improper travel and gifts involving FLIR’s Middle East operation.
We can give no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining necessary licenses required to facilitate our international business.
The funding of contracts awarded to us depends on the overall United States government budget and appropriations process, which is beyond our control.


