fls.txt



item1.txt
In addition, our international contracts may include industrial cooperation agreements requiring specific in-country purchases, investments, manufacturing agreements or other financial obligations, known as offset obligations, and may provide for penalties if we fail to meet such requirements.
We have indebtedness as a result of the issuance of our 3.125 percent senior unsecured notes (the “Notes”) and borrowings against our unsecured credit facility, and we are subject to certain restrictive covenants under our unsecured credit facility and the indenture governing the Notes which may limit our operational and financial flexibility
All remaining assets, liabilities, capital expenditures, and depreciation are managed on a Company-wide basis.
Shares purchased under the ESPP must be held by employees for a period of at least 18 months after the date of purchase.
The Company has filed a complaint against the Belgian tax assessments, and the result of this complaint, the appeal with the General Court of the European Union, new information received from the Belgian Government, or other future events may cause the income tax provision associated with the decision to be entirely or partially reversed.
Products include thermal imaging cameras, gas detection cameras, firefighting cameras, process automation cameras, and environmental test and measurement devices.
The results of operations for the interim periods presented are not necessarily indicative of the operating results to be expected for any subsequent interim period or for the year ending December 31, 2018.
As a result of this analysis, no impairment was identified.
Intersegment revenues are recorded at cost and are eliminated in consolidation.
Further, although we have implemented and continue to implement policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with applicable laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate our policies or applicable laws and regulations.
Significant competition exists for such personnel and we cannot assure the retention of our key executives, technical and sales personnel or our ability to attract, integrate and retain other such personnel that may be required in the future.
We amortize certain of these intangibles over their anticipated useful life and review goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually or more frequently if warranted by events.
For additional disclosures required by the new revenue standard see Note 2, "Revenue."
On October 28, 2014, a four-week trial began with respect to Raytheon's remaining claims of misappropriation of trade secrets and claims related to 31 alleged trade secrets.
companies that we acquire, incur unanticipated costs, lose major sources of revenue, fail to integrate critical technologies, suffer business disruptions, fail to capture anticipated synergies, fail to establish satisfactory internal controls, or incur unanticipated liabilities.


item2.txt
Excluding the divestiture of the Consumer and SMB Security businesses, we currently expect total annual revenue for 2018 to be higher than 2017 revenue and reported revenue including the divested businesses to be about flat or slightly down when compared to prior year.
Selling, general, and administrative expenses were $205.1 million and $187.3 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and June 30, 2017, respectively.
Over the past five annual periods through December 31, 2017, our annual selling, general and administrative expenses have varied between 19.4 percent and 21.7 percent of revenue, and excluding the impact of the $15.0 million regulatory settlement cost described above, we currently expect these expenses to remain within that approximate range, on an annual basis, for the foreseeable future.
The increase in revenue for the six month period was predominately attributable to strong performance in the Instruments and OEM product lines.
Selling, general, and administrative expenses were $205.1 million and $187.3 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and June 30, 2017, respectively.
Gross profit for the quarter ended June 30, 2018, was $232.6 million compared to $206.7 million for the same quarter last year.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Litigation over patents and other intellectual property is common in our industry.
To date we have not experienced any impairment of our intangible assets, but there can be no assurance that we will not experience such impairment in the future.
The Company has filed a complaint against the Belgian tax assessments, and the result of this complaint, the appeal with the General Court of the European Union, new information received from the Belgian Government, or other future events may cause the income tax provision associated with the decision to be entirely or partially reversed.
Some provisions of our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws, including our ability to issue preferred stock without further action by our shareholders, as well as provisions of the State of Oregon law, may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a shareholder may consider favorable.
Although we have in the past and continue to be subject to cybersecurity threats and other security threats and technology disruptions, to date none has had a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.
Significant competition exists for such personnel and we cannot assure the retention of our key executives, technical and sales personnel or our ability to attract, integrate and retain other such personnel that may be required in the future.
Our industry is subject to rapid changes in technology, which may result in unexpected obsolescence or impairment of our assets.
The Company has filed a complaint against the Belgian tax assessments, and the result of this complaint, the appeal with the General Court of the European Union, new information received from the Belgian Government, or other future events may cause the income tax provision associated with the decision to be entirely or partially reversed.


