fls.txt



item1.txt
While there still remains uncertainty related to estimating the costs associated with a potential remedy and number of units which may require such remedy, the Company currently estimates the range of potential loss on remaining units to be between $4.9 million and $12.1 million.
Certain customers request different system configurations, based on standard options or accessories that the Company offers.
Operating lease right-of-use assets (ROU assets) represent the Company’s right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and operating lease liabilities represent the obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
The Company is unable to reasonably estimate the time it may take to resolve these matters or the amount or range of potential loss, penalty or other government action, if any, that may be incurred in connection with these matters.
Our intangible assets, including goodwill, represent a significant portion of our total assets.
On September 10, 2018, the Company completed a transaction to acquire 100% of the outstanding stock of Acyclica, Inc., a privately held software developer for automotive roadway and intersection data generation and analysis for approximately $10.3 million, including an estimate for contingent consideration pursuant to the stock purchase agreement.
The Company has only a small number of leases that qualify for the exemption and the amount of its remaining short-term lease commitments is not significant.
As such, the application of certain accounting guidance is currently evolving.
As a result of this combined sale, the Company recognized a total pre-tax loss of approximately $37.3 million (approximately $23.6 million in year ended December 31, 2017 and approximately $13.7 million in the year ended December 31, 2018).
The timing of revenue recognition, billings and cash collections results in billed accounts receivable, unbilled receivables and deferred revenue and advance payments from customers on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
In July 2018, the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative announced a list of Chinese imports that currently face tariffs of between ten and twenty-five percent.
The United States Government’s export reform effort resulted in the transition of various Company products from the USML to the CCL, shifting the licensing requirements and restrictions for products regulated by the Department of Commerce under the EAR.
In October 2018, a shareholder filed a derivative lawsuit in the Circuit Court of the State of Oregon for the County of Multnomah under the caption Stein v. Carter, et al., Case No.
These leases have remaining lease terms of approximately one year to ten years.
The primary areas of the purchase price allocation that are not yet finalized relate to the valuation of intangible assets and related taxes.
As of March 31, 2019, the Company had approximately $45.5 million of total unrecognized stock-based compensation costs, net of estimated forfeitures, to be recognized over a weighted average period of two years.


item2.txt
Overall, we anticipate that revenue from international sales will continue to comprise a significant percentage of total revenue.
There have been no significant changes in the Company's assumptions regarding critical accounting estimates during the first three months of 2019.
The decrease in selling, general, and administrative expenses year over year is primarily attributed to a $15 million regulatory settlement recorded in the first quarter of 2018 partially offset by acquisition related expenses for acquisitions occurring in the first quarter of 2019.
As of March 31, 2019, a total of 0.5 million shares have been repurchased under the February 7, 2019 authorization.
Over the past five annual periods through December 31, 2018, our annual selling, general and administrative expenses have varied between 19.4 percent and 21.8 percent of revenue, and excluding the impact of the $15.0 million regulatory settlement cost described above, we currently expect these expenses to remain within that approximate range, on an annual basis, for the foreseeable future.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
With respect to international sales denominated in United States dollars, a decrease in the value of foreign currencies relative to the United States dollar could make our products less price competitive.
These repurchases were through open market transactions under the authorization by our Board of Directors on February 7, 2019 to repurchase of up to 15.0 million shares of our outstanding common stock.
We derive significant revenue from contracts or subcontracts funded by United States government agencies.
While we have insurance related to our business operations, it may not apply to or fully cover liabilities we incur as a result of these lawsuits.
Our information technology networks and related systems are critical to the operation of our business and essential to our ability to successfully perform day-to-day operations.
A refinancing of our indebtedness, including the Notes, could also require us to comply with more onerous covenants and further restrict our business operations.
We have significant operations and a substantial workforce in Europe, a portion of which reside in the U.K. and therefore enjoy certain benefits based on the U.K.’s membership in the EU.
condition and results of operations would be adversely affected.


