fls.txt



item1.txt
New tax legislation, commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Act”), was enacted on December 22, 2017.
Our information technology networks and related systems are critical to the operation of our business and essential to our ability to successfully perform day-to-day operations.
In June 2016, the Company issued $425 million aggregate principal amount of its 3.125 percent senior unsecured notes due June 15, 2021 (the “2016 Notes”).
We believe the principal competitive factors in our markets are product performance, price, customer service and training, product reputation, and effective marketing and sales efforts.
These consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017.
Interest on the 2016 Notes is payable semiannually in arrears on December 15 and June 15.
2014-09, "Revenue - Revenue from Contracts with Customers" ("ASU 2014-09").
Certain customers request different system configurations, based on standard options or accessories that the Company offers.
We believe the principal competitive factors in our markets are product performance, price, customer service and training, product reputation, and effective marketing and sales efforts.
DDTC acknowledged the notification and at the request of DDTC, the Company executed a tolling agreements for this matter, suspending the statute of limitations through January 13, 2019.
As we expand our presence into new markets, we may face increased exposure to product liability claims.
The Company expects the impact of the adoption of the new standard to be immaterial to net income on an ongoing basis.
Contract assets and liabilities are reported on a contract-by-contract basis.
While we have insurance related to our business operations, it may not apply to or fully cover liabilities we incur as a result of these lawsuits.
Intersegment revenues are recorded at cost and are eliminated in consolidation.


item2.txt
Cash used by financing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 totaled $156.9 million, which primarily consisted of cash used for the repurchase of shares of our common stock and the payment of quarterly dividends.
The proceeds from the Notes were used to repay our 3.75 percent senior unsecured notes that were due September 1, 2016, and are being used for general corporate purposes, which include working capital and capital expenditure needs, business acquisitions, and repurchases of our common stock.
We have the right, subject to certain conditions, including approval of additional commitments by qualified lenders, to increase the revolving line of credit under the Credit Agreement by an additional $200 million until May 31, 2021.
Cash provided by operating activities during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 totaled $275.8 million, which primarily consisted of net earnings, adjusted for depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation, other non-cash items and changes in working capital.
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU No.
Selling, general, and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue were 22.4 percent and 21.5 percent for the nine months periods ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
At September 30, 2018, the restricted cash balance was $35.7 million and we had no amounts designated as restricted cash at December 31, 2017.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Recently, the United States Government’s export reform effort resulted in the transition of various Company products from the USML to the CCL, shifting the licensing requirements and restrictions for products regulated by the Department of Commerce under the EAR.
Substantial uncertainty exists in the spending levels and priorities of the United States government, particularly with respect to military expenditures.
Further, although we have implemented and continue to implement policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with applicable laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate our policies or applicable laws and regulations.
We maintain inventories of finished goods, components and raw materials at levels we believe are necessary to meet anticipated sales.
We are subject to various legal proceedings and claims that have arisen out of the ordinary conduct of our business and are not yet resolved, and additional claims may arise in the future.
Additionally, an adverse determination could require us to seek licenses from third parties.
These risks if not effectively mitigated or controlled could materially harm our business or reputation.


