fls.txt



item1.txt
Borrowings on the Revolving Credit Facility were used for financing the acquisition of E2M Technologies B.V. (E2M) in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019.
We adopted the new revenue standard on September 30, 2018 for our fiscal year 2019 under the modified retrospective transition method.
Using the treasury stock method, diluted earnings per share includes the potentially dilutive effect of common shares issued in connection with outstanding stock-based compensation options and grants.
The amortizing senior note was issued with an initial principal amount of $27,386, or $23.8136 per TEU.
We measure certain financial instruments at fair value on a nonrecurring basis.
The preliminary fair value of the acquired intangible assets was $43,932.
As of March 30, 2019, the amount projected to be reclassified from AOCI into earnings in the next 12 months was a net gain of $2,378.
The Term Facility amortizes in equal quarterly installments equal to 1% of the original principal amount.
As of March 30, 2019 and September 29, 2018, we were in compliance with these financial covenants.
Contract balances are classified as assets or liabilities on a contract-by-contract basis at the end of each reporting period.
1 See Note 18 for additional information regarding acquisitions.
The Capped Calls will be automatically settled upon Capped Call Expiration with shares of our common stock based on the average market value of our common stock as defined in the Capped Call Agreements.
Factors that affected the effective tax rate for the six months ended March 30, 2019 included impacts of the Tax Act, such as elimination of the domestic manufacturing deduction and the implementation of the global intangible low-taxed income (GILTI) provision.
See Note 8 for additional information on derivative financial instruments.
Each installment constitutes a payment of interest and partial repayment of principal.
The new guidance is required to be adopted using a modified retrospective transition method, and an optional transition method may be elected to use the effective date as the date of initial application on transition.
2016-16, Income Taxes (Topic 740), Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory, which requires companies to account for the income tax effects of intercompany sales and transfers of assets other than inventory when the transfer occurs.
The proceeds of the Term Facility were used for financing the acquisition of PCB Group, Inc. (PCB) in fiscal year 2016.


item2.txt
Excluding the impact of currency translation, general and administrative expense increased 13.6%.
Selling and marketing expense for the three and six months ended March 30, 2019 increased 16.0% and 6.4%, respectively, primarily due higher commissions and compensation expense, as well as the addition of E2M expenses, partially offset by the favorable impact of currency translation.
The decrease in cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to an increase in cash used by working capital associated with timing fluctuations from accounts receivable payments received and unbilled accounts receivable accruals, accounts payable payments, inventory purchases, and advanced payments received from customers, as well as a decrease in net income due to the remeasurement of our estimated deferred tax liabilities as a result of the Tax Act in fiscal year 2018.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, general and administrative expense increased 13.6%.
Income from operations for the three and six months ended March 30, 2019 increased 45.5% and 27.3%, respectively, primarily due to increased gross profit on higher revenue volume and the impact of the E2M acquisition, partially offset by higher compensation expense and acquisition-related expenses.
See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item I of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information on our financing arrangements.
The following tables compare results of operations, separately identifying the estimated impact of currency translation, the acquisition of E2M in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 and restructuring costs incurred in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019.
In fiscal year 2019, we adopted Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No.
As of March 30, 2019, we held no short-term investments.


item3.txt
We have operational procedures to mitigate these non-functional currency exposures.


item4.txt



part2.txt
We made no share purchases during the second quarter of fiscal year 2019.


