fls.txt



item1.txt
Future amortization amounts presented above are estimates.
The potentially dilutive effect of common shares issued in connection with outstanding stock options is determined based on the average market price for the period.
1 Net fair value of designated hedge derivatives that could have been reported in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
As a result of this agreement, every month we pay fixed interest at 1.256% in exchange for interest received at one month U.S. LIBOR.
During the three and six months ended April 1, 2017, commitment fees incurred totaled $114 and $215, respectively.
The Term Facility amortizes in equal quarterly installments equal to 1% of the original principal amount.
We will continue to report only the Test and Sensors segments until such time.
counterparty banks to sell foreign currencies against contracts to purchase foreign currencies, irrespective of contract maturity dates, the net notional U.S. dollar equivalent amount of contracts outstanding as of March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2017 was $18,150 and $14,762, respectively.
The fair value of the senior amortizing note, net of underwriting discounts, commissions and other expenses, was split between current maturities of long-term debt, net and long-term debt, less current maturities, net in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
During the six months ended March 31, 2018, no holders of our TEUs elected to early convert the equity component of our outstanding TEUs.
The standard is required to be adopted for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within that annual period, which is our fiscal year 2020.
The amendment is to be applied using either a modified retrospective approach, which includes a number of optional practical expedients, with early adoption permitted.
As of March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2017, we were in compliance with these financial covenants.
A discussion of our risk factors can be found in Item 1A of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017.
contract is determined to be no longer effective as a hedge, we discontinue hedge accounting prospectively.
For sales that include installation services, warranty obligations generally extend for a period of 12 to 24 months from the date of either shipment or acceptance based on the contract terms.


item2.txt
The increase was partially offset by higher compensation and commission expense and increased professional fees.
Our testing hardware and software solutions help customers accelerate and improve design, development and manufacturing processes and are used for determining the mechanical behavior of materials, products and structures.
The following table compares results of operations for Sensors, separately identifying the estimated impact of currency translation and restructuring costs incurred in fiscal year 2018.
Gross profit for the six months ended March 31, 2018 increased 30.7% primarily due to increased revenue volume, the prior year PCB acquisition inventory adjustment of $7,724, the favorable impact of currency translation, and prior year restructuring costs.
During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017, we initiated a series of Test workforce reductions and facility closures intended to increase organizational effectiveness, gain manufacturing efficiencies and provide cost savings that can be reinvested in our growth initiatives.
As a result of the PCB acquisition, we incurred certain non-recurring costs during fiscal year 2017 including acquisition integration costs and a fair value adjustment on acquired PCB inventory (PCB acquisition inventory adjustment).
We are currently evaluating repatriation of any additional funds held by certain of our foreign subsidiaries, including whether to utilize such funds for repayment of debt.
Total interest-bearing debt at March 31, 2018 was $423,929.
Net income and diluted earnings per share for the six months ended March 31, 2018 increased due to a reduction in the effective tax rate and discrete benefits stemming from the Tax Act, as well as lower operating expenses and increased gross profit.
Gross margin rate increased 0.8 percentage points primarily due to the prior year impact from the PCB acquisition inventory adjustment and leverage on increased Sensors revenue volume, partially offset by the lower contribution from


item3.txt
A hypothetical decrease of 100 basis points in market interest rates, assuming all other variables were held constant, would decrease interest income by approximately $131 for the six months ended March 31, 2018.


item4.txt



part2.txt
These changes are designed to increase organizational effectiveness, gain manufacturing efficiencies and provide cost savings that can be reinvested in growth initiatives.
As of March 31, 2018, there were 438 shares available for purchase under the existing authorization.


