The 1.9841 minimum shares to be issued are included in the calculation of basic weighted average shares outstanding.
Contract liabilities represent payments received from customers at contract inception and at milestones per contract provisions.
We have a credit agreement with U.S. Bank National Association and HSBC Bank USA, National Association as Co-Documentation Agents, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association as Syndication Agent, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
Existing guidance required companies to defer the income tax effects of intercompany transfers of assets until the asset has been sold to an outside party or otherwise recognized.
As of June 29, 2019, a total of 968 shares were available for issuance under the 2017 Plan.
As a result, changes in the fair value of the interest rate swap are recorded in AOCI within shareholders' equity in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
In the event any of these assets were to become impaired, we would recognize an impairment loss equal to the amount by which the carrying value of the reporting unit, impaired asset or asset group exceeds its estimated fair value.
The total notional amount of the interest rate swap was $225,000 as of June 29, 2019.
A contract's transaction price is allocated to each distinct performance obligation and recognized as revenue when, or as, the performance obligation is satisfied.
See Note 13 for additional information regarding the calculation of earnings per share.
We had outstanding letters of credit drawn from the Revolving Credit Facility totaling $22,580 and $20,448 as of June 29, 2019 and September 29, 2018, respectively, leaving approximately $47,029 and $99,552, respectively, of unused borrowing capacity.
See Note 15 for further information on reportable segments.Forward-looking statements are qualified by some or all of these risk factors.
See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further discussion of the amendment to the Credit Agreement.
2 The Acquisition column includes revenues and costs from the acquisition of E2M and costs incurred as part of the acquisition of E2M.
The decrease in other income (expense), net for the three months ended June 29, 2019 was primarily driven by a relative increase in losses on foreign currency transactions, partially offset by an increase in rental income.
The decrease in cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to an increase in cash used by working capital associated with timing fluctuations from accounts receivable payments received and unbilled accounts receivable accruals, accounts payable payments, advanced payments received from customers, and inventory purchases, as well as a decrease in net income due to the remeasurement of our estimated deferred tax liabilities as a result of the Tax Act in fiscal year 2018.As of June 29, 2019, there were 438 shares available for purchase under the existing authorization.