fls.txt



item1.txt
These assets primarily include goodwill, intangible assets and other long-lived assets acquired either as part of a business acquisition, individually or with a group of other assets, as well as property and equipment.
We had outstanding letters of credit drawn from the Revolving Credit Facility totaling $26,366 and $37,811 as of June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively, leaving approximately $93,634 and $82,189, respectively, of unused borrowing capacity.
Item 1A.
GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect amounts reported.
We have prepared the interim unaudited consolidated financial statements included herein pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States (U.S.) Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
During the nine months ended June 30, 2018 and July 1, 2017, we issued 24 and 25 shares, respectively, of our common stock for a single closed purchase period to participants under the 2012 ESPP at a weighted average price per share of $44.39 and $40.49, respectively.
The fair value of the senior amortizing note, net of underwriting discounts, commissions and other expenses, was split between current maturities of long-term debt, net and long-term debt, less current maturities, net in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
In evaluating each segment's performance, our Chief Executive Officer focuses on income from operations.
The majority of the expenses are expected to be paid in the first half of fiscal year 2019.
The value of the Capped Calls is settled with shares of our common stock, based on the approximate market value of our common stock at such time, and could be settled as the TEUs were early converted or settled upon expiration on July 1, 2019 (Capped Call Expiration).
For our fiscal year ending September 29, 2018, we expect to incur total expense of approximately $2,000 related to these restructuring actions.
Each TEU has a stated amount of $100 per TEU and is comprised of a prepaid stock purchase contract and a senior amortizing note having a final installment payment date of July 1, 2019.
As a result, changes in the fair value of the interest rate swap are recorded in AOCI within shareholders' equity in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
We record general warranty provisions based on an estimated warranty expense percentage applied to current period revenue.
The Applicable Rate for any ABR Revolving Loans will be based upon the leverage ratio applicable on such date.


item2.txt
General and administrative expense for the three months ended June 30, 2018 increased 7.0% primarily due to increased professional fees and the unfavorable impact of currency translation.
See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information on our operating segments.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, the prior year PCB acquisition inventory adjustment, prior year PCB acquisition integration expenses, and restructuring costs incurred in both fiscal years, income from operations increased 26.9%.
As of June 30, 2018, we held no short-term investments.
Revenue for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 declined 1.1% primarily driven by lower Test revenue, partially offset by growth in our Sensors business and the favorable impact of currency translation.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, prior year PCB acquisition integration expenses, and prior year restructuring costs, general and administrative expense increased 2.8%.
General and administrative expense for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 decreased 11.6% primarily due to prior year China investigation expenses of $8,300 and prior year PCB acquisition integration expenses of $2,402, partially offset by an increase in professional fees and the unfavorable impact of currency translation.
In order to accelerate our revenue growth over the next five years, investments in infrastructure, sales support and field service capacity and capability are essential.
We believe that our business model supports our growth objectives, provided that we continue to move aggressively to build our infrastructure, expand our offerings and execute on opportunities with our key customers around the world.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, revenue decreased 4.2%.


item3.txt
On floating-rate investments, increases or decreases in market interest rates will increase or decrease future interest income, respectively.


item4.txt



part2.txt
These changes are designed to increase organizational effectiveness, gain manufacturing efficiencies and provide cost savings that can be reinvested in growth initiatives.
On June 13, 2018, we amended the agreements with third party banking institutions for the outstanding Capped Calls (Capped Call Agreements) to modify the timing of settlement to be only upon expiration for all outstanding Capped Calls.


