fls.txt
Examples of forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: (i) projections of revenue, ROIC, EBITDA, income or loss, earnings or loss per share, the payment or nonpayment of dividends, capital structure, the adequacy of our liquidity and reserves, the anticipated level of expenditures required and other statements concerning future financial performance; (ii) statements of our plans and objectives by our management or Board of Directors, including those relating to products or services, merger or acquisition activity and the potential impact of newly acquired businesses; (iii) statements of assumptions underlying such statements; (iv) statements regarding business relationships with vendors, customers or collaborators or statements relating to our order cancellation history, our ability to convert our backlog of undelivered orders into revenue, the timing of purchases, competitive advantages and growth in end markets; (v) statements regarding our ability to report additional operating segments, to raise capital in a timely manner or to compete acquisitions in the future; (vi) statements regarding products, their characteristics, fluctuations in the costs of raw materials for products, our geographic footprint, performance, sales potential or effect in the hands of customers; and (vii) statements regarding the estimated tax benefits we receive under the Tax Act and our expectations concerning recorded adjustments.


item1.txt
During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017, we initiated a series of Test workforce reductions and facility closures intended to increase organizational effectiveness, gain manufacturing efficiencies and provide cost savings that can be reinvested in our growth initiatives.
The standard is required to be adopted for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within that annual period, which is our fiscal year 2020.
We compensate our officers, directors and employees with stock-based compensation under the 2017 Stock Incentive Plan (the 2017 Plan) approved by our shareholders and administered under the supervision of our Board of Directors.
Our U.S. employees are eligible to participate in the 2012 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (2012 ESPP) approved by our shareholders.
Each installment will constitute a payment of interest and partial repayment of principal.
As of December 30, 2017 and September 30, 2017, we had outstanding cash flow hedge currency exchange contracts with gross notional U.S. dollar equivalent amounts of $44,890 and $29,136, respectively.
In December 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
The aforementioned revenue standards and amendments are required to be adopted for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within that annual period, which is our fiscal year 2019.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP).
As of December 30, 2017 and September 30, 2017, the net market value of the foreign exchange balance sheet derivative contracts was a net liability of $21 and a net asset of $77, respectively.
As of December 30, 2017 and September 30, 2017, the net market value of the foreign exchange balance sheet derivative contracts was a net liability of $21 and a net asset of $77, respectively.
We expect to record any adjustments in the next year in accordance with the guidance provided in the SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
As of December 30, 2017 and September 30, 2017, the net market value of the foreign exchange balance sheet derivative contracts was a net liability of $21 and a net asset of $77, respectively.
The division of our Test segment will result in us having three operating segments once discrete financial information is made available to our Chief Operating Decision Maker.
As of December 30, 2017 and September 30, 2017, we had outstanding cash flow hedge currency exchange contracts with gross notional U.S. dollar equivalent amounts of $44,890 and $29,136, respectively.
See Note 5 for additional information on goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets, other long-lived assets and property and equipment.
Our Chief Executive Officer (the Chief Operating Decision Maker) regularly reviews financial information for our two operating segments, Test and Sensors.


item2.txt
The following table presents repurchases of our equity securities we made during the fiscal quarter ended December 30, 2017.
The Credit Agreement also contains financial covenants, including the ratio of consolidated total indebtedness to adjusted consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (Adjusted EBITDA), as defined in the Credit Agreement, as well as the ratio of Adjusted EBITDA to consolidated interest expense.
Test revenue decreased $12,923 primarily driven by lower equipment order volume in the first half of fiscal year 2017.
The increase in other income (expense), net for the three months ended December 30, 2017 was primarily driven by a decrease in losses on foreign currency transactions.
The following table compares results of operations for Test, separately identifying the estimated impact of currency translation and restructuring costs incurred in fiscal year 2018.
Our dividend practice is to target, over time, a payout ratio of approximately 25% of net earnings per share.
Revenue for the three months ended December 30, 2017 declined by 2.6% primarily due to a decrease in Test revenue, partially offset by revenue growth in our Sensors business and the favorable impact of currency translation.
Our investment objectives are to preserve principal, maintain liquidity and achieve the best available return consistent with our primary objectives of safety and liquidity.
As of December 30, 2017 the range of shares of our common stock to be received under the outstanding Capped Calls was 0 to 293 shares, subject to market conditions.


item3.txt
We have swapped a portion of our floating-rate debt to a fixed-rate such that the interest expense on this debt will not vary with changes in short-term interest rates.


item4.txt



part2.txt
In connection with the pricing of the TEUs sold in our public offering in fiscal year 2016, we purchased capped calls from third party banking institutions (Capped Calls) for $7,935.
As of December 30, 2017 the range of shares of our common stock to be received under the outstanding Capped Calls was 0 to 293 shares, subject to market conditions.


