fls.txt



item1.txt
Total proceeds, net of underwriting discounts, commissions and other expenses were $110,926.
See Note 16 for further information on reportable segments.
The amortizing senior note was issued with an initial principal amount of $27,386, or $23.8136 per TEU.
The Applicable Rate for any Eurocurrency Revolving Loan is based upon the leverage ratio applicable on such date.
The performance obligation is a stand-alone sensor product, accessory, service or software license.
As of December 29, 2018, 615 shares were available for issuance under the 2012 ESPP.
The value of the Capped Calls is settled with shares of our common stock, based on the approximate market value of our common stock at such time, and could be settled as the TEUs were early converted or settled upon expiration on July 1, 2019 (Capped Call Expiration).
The following accounting policies have been updated since our fiscal year 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
As a result, stock options to acquire 930 and 496 weighted common shares have been excluded from the diluted weighted average common shares outstanding calculation for the three months ended December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017, respectively.
The Credit Agreement governing the Term Facility requires us to prepay outstanding term loans, subject to certain exceptions, depending on the leverage ratio with (a) up to 50% of the our annual Excess Cash Flow (as defined in the Credit Agreement) and (b) 100% of the net cash proceeds of (i) certain asset sales and casualty and condemnation events, subject to reinvestment rights and certain other exceptions; and (ii) any incurrence or issuance of certain debt, other than debt permitted under the Credit Agreement.
The TEUs are assumed to be settled at the minimum settlement amount of 1.9841 shares per TEU when calculating weighted-average common shares outstanding for purposes of basic earnings per share.
We expect to finalize the allocation of purchase price as soon as possible, but no later than one year from the acquisition date.
We are currently evaluation our lease portfolio; assessing system needs to support adoption of the new lease standard; and analyzing procedural changes, including updating our lease accounting policy as needed to reflect the new requirements of this standard.
Interim results of operations for the first fiscal quarter ended December 29, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the full fiscal year.
Conversely, when billing occurs subsequent to revenue recognition for contracts recognized over time, balances are recorded in unbilled accounts receivable, net in our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
As of December 29, 2018 and September 29, 2018, the net market value of the foreign exchange balance sheet derivative contracts was a net liability of $588 and a net asset of $91, respectively.
1 Based on observable market transactions of spot currency rates and forward currency rates on equivalently-termed instruments.
A contract's transaction price is allocated to each distinct performance obligation and recognized as revenue when, or as, the performance obligation is satisfied.


item2.txt
Forward-looking statements are qualified by some or all of these risk factors.
The Consolidated Balance Sheets also included $11,357 of unamortized debt issuance costs as of December 29, 2018.
As of December 29, 2018, we believe our current capital resources will be sufficient to fund working capital requirements, capital expenditures and operations for the foreseeable future, including at least the next twelve months.
As of December 29, 2018 the range of shares of our common stock to be received for the outstanding Capped Calls was a minimum of 0 shares to a maximum of 268 shares, subject to market conditions.
Factors that increased the effective tax rate for the three months ended December 29, 2018 included impacts of the Tax Act, such as elimination of the domestic manufacturing deduction and the implementation of the global intangible low-taxed income provision.
Our dividend policy is to maintain a payout ratio that allows dividends to increase in conjunction with the long-term growth of earnings per share, while sustaining dividends through economic cycles.
Interest expense, net for the three months ended December 29, 2018 remained flat primarily due to a reduction in interest expense related to lower balances on the tranche B term loan, as well as current year gains on interest rate swaps, which was offset by an increase in interest expense on the revolving credit facility.
See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item I of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information on our financing arrangements.


item3.txt
Net gains and losses on foreign currency transactions, included in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Income, were net losses of $323 and $392 in the three months ended December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017, respectively.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 1A.


