We undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as required by applicable law.
Readers are cautioned to review the risks, uncertainties, and assumptions set forth in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, including the section entitled "Certain Forward-Looking Information" and the risk factors set forth in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, filed with the SEC on May 9, 2018, and other periodic filings with the SEC, any of which could affect our estimates for future financial needs and sources of working capital.
In June 2016, the FASB issued guidance regarding the measurement of credit losses on financial instruments, which changes the impairment model for most financial assets.
The new model uses a forward-looking expected loss method, which will generally result in earlier recognition of allowances for losses.We are presently engaged in various legal actions arising in the normal course of business.
For additional information about our material legal proceedings, please see Note 7, Commitments and Contingencies, of the accompanying notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements.
Risk Factors" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, filed with the SEC on May 9, 2018 (the "Form 10-K"), and Part II, "Risk Factors" in our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 ended June 30, 2018, filed with the SEC on August 7, 2018, each of which could materially affect our business, financial position, or future results of operations.
Except as described below, there have been no material changes to the risk factors included in the Form 10-K. As a result of our acquisition of Polycom on July 2, 2018, the amount of goodwill and purchased intangible assets on our consolidated balance sheet and subject to future impairment testing increased substantially from $15.5 million at the end of fiscal year 2018 to more than $2.2 billion as of the end of the second quarter of fiscal year 2019.
If the testing performed indicates that impairment has occurred, we are required to record a non-cash impairment charge for the difference between the carrying value of the goodwill and the implied fair value of the goodwill in the period the determination is made.
We cannot accurately predict the amount or timing of any impairment of assets.
On July 27, 2017 the Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase 1,000,000 shares of our common stock from time to time in the market or in privately negotiated repurchases as determined by management.
Under the terms approved by the board of directors, immediately prior to a Change of Control (as defined in the existing Change of Control agreements currently in effect) all outstanding unvested shares under performance stock unit awards (“PSUs”) will vest at the greater of target performance or actual performance.