item1.txt
On March 6, 2019, the Xerox Board of Directors approved a reorganization (the “Reorganization”) of the Company's corporate structure into a holding company structure, pursuant to which Xerox Corporation will become a direct, wholly-owned subsidiary of a new holding company.
The Reorganization is intended to be implemented via a tax-free transaction for U.S. federal income tax purposes that will result in each holder of Xerox Corporation’s common stock owning the same number of shares of common stock in the new holding company and each holder of Xerox Corporation’s preferred stock owning the same number of shares of preferred stock in the new holding company.
It is expected that the directors and executive officers of Xerox Corporation will also serve in the same capacities for the new holding company and that shares of the new holding company’s common stock will trade on the New York Stock Exchange under Xerox Corporation’s current ticker symbol “XRX.”
In March 2019, as part of Project Own It, we entered into a shared services arrangement with HCL Technologies (HCL) pursuant to which we are outsourcing certain global administrative and support functions, including, among others, selected information technology and finance functions (excluding accounting).
HCL is expected to make certain up-front and ongoing investments in software, tools and other technology to consolidate, optimize and automate the transferred functions with the goal of providing improved service levels and significant cost savings.
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-15, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other - Internal Use Software (Subtopic 350-40), Customer's Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That is a Service Contract.
This update aligns the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software (and hosting arrangements that include an internal-use software license).
The update provides criteria for determining which implementation costs to capitalize as an asset related to the service contract and which costs to expense.
The capitalized implementation costs are required to be expensed over the term of the hosting arrangement.
This update, as well as additional amendments and targeted improvements issued in 2018 and early 2019, supersedes existing lease accounting guidance found under ASC 840, Leases (“ASC 840”) and requires the recognition of right-to-use assets and lease obligations by lessees for those leases originally classified as operating leases under prior lease guidance.
Effective with the adoption, leases are classified as either finance or operating, with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition.


item2.txt
We refer to this analysis as "constant currency", “currency impact” or “the impact from currency.” This impact is calculated by translating current period activity in local currency using the comparable prior year period's currency translation rate.
The increase in Net income attributable to Xerox for the three months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to the prior year period, was primarily due to the continued benefits of cost savings and productivity improvements from our Project Own It transformation actions, which offset the impact of lower revenues, as well as lower Transaction and related costs, net, lower Income tax expense and higher Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates.
The increase in adjusted1 net income attributable to Xerox for the three months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to the prior year period was primarily related to increased operating profits reflecting the continued benefits of cost savings and productivity improvements, which offset the decline in revenues, as well as higher Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates.
•High-end - For the three months ended March 31, 2019, revenue was nearly flat, as compared to first quarter 2018, and was driven by lower sales from our Americas sales organization, mostly offset by growth from our European region.
While the rate of our first quarter 2019 revenue decline was greater than the rate we expect for the year as a whole (largely due to the impact of organizational changes implemented in the first quarter 2019), we expect such decline to improve each quarter sequentially on a year-over-year basis, resulting in an overall revenue decline of about 5% for the year as a whole, excluding an approximate 1.0-percentage point unfavorable impact from currency.
•2% decrease in black-and-white multifunction devices, driven by lower activity from our EMEA organization, including low-end devices in developing market regions, partially offset by higher installs of ConnectKey devices through our indirect channels in the U.S.
•7% decrease in mid-range color installs reflecting lower installs of ConnectKey devices through our indirect channels in the U.S. and from our XBS sales unit.
•14% decrease in high-end color installs, reflecting lower installs of our iGen and lower-end production systems including Versant systems, partially offset by strong demand for the higher-configuration models of our Iridesse production press and higher installs of our inkjet production systems.
SAG as a percentage of revenue of 24.8% decreased 1.0-percentage point as compared to first quarter 2018, primarily reflecting the benefit from productivity and restructuring associated with our Project Own It transformation actions.


item4.txt
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(d)(5) to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(e)(42) to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018.
10.4 Amended Letter of Agreement dated April 17, 2019 between Registrant and Giovanni (John) Visentin.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated April 17, 2019.
31(a) Certification of CEO pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) or Rule 15d-14(a).


part2.txt
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(d)(5) to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(e)(42) to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018.
10.4 Amended Letter of Agreement dated April 17, 2019 between Registrant and Giovanni (John) Visentin.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated April 17, 2019.
31(a) Certification of CEO pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) or Rule 15d-14(a).


