item1.txt
In 2017 Fujifilm publicly announced it had formed an independent investigation committee ("IIC") to conduct a review of the appropriateness of the accounting practices at Fuji Xerox’s New Zealand subsidiary related to the recovery of receivables associated with certain bundled leasing transactions that occurred in, or prior to, Fuji Xerox’s fiscal year ending March 31, 2016.
Refer to Note 10 - Investment in Affiliates, at Equity for a discussion regarding the correction of incremental misstatements and adjustments identified in 2018 and corrected by Fuji Xerox as part of their reported results for the quarter ended March 31, 2018 (our first quarter).
On January 1, 2018 we adopted ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC Topic 606), which superseded nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under U.S. GAAP.
ASC Topic 606 defines a five step process to recognize revenue and requires more judgment and estimates within the revenue recognition process than required under previous U.S. GAAP, including identifying performance obligations in the contract, estimating the amount of variable consideration to include in the transaction price and allocating the transaction price to each separate performance obligation.
Another change identified upon adoption was with respect to deferred contract costs, which include incremental costs of obtaining a contract and costs to fulfill a contract.
However, as a result of the contract cost guidance included in ASC Topic 606 and ASC Topic 340-40 "Contracts with Customers", upon adoption, we recorded a transition asset of $153, and a net of tax increase of $117 to retained earnings, related to the incremental cost to obtain contracts.
Revenue from the equipment performance obligation also includes certain analyst training services performed in connection with the installation or delivery of the equipment.
Our services contracts may also include the sale or lease of equipment and software.
In these instances we follow the policies noted for Equipment or Software Revenues and separately report the revenue associated with these performance obligations.


item2.txt
We refer to this analysis as "constant currency", “currency impact” or “the impact from currency.” This impact is calculated by translating current period activity in local currency using the comparable prior year period's currency translation rate.
Refer to Note 19 - Contingencies and Litigation and Note 20 - Fuji Xerox Transaction and Recent Developments in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to this transaction and related matters.
In 2018, in connection with the completion of the audits of Fuji Xerox’s fiscal year-end financial statements as of and for the years ended March 31, 2016 and 2017, as well as the review of Fuji Xerox’s unaudited interim financial statements as of and for the nine months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, additional adjustments and misstatements were identified.
These additional adjustments and misstatements were to the previously reported net income of Fuji Xerox for the period from 2010 through 2017 and are incremental to the items identified by the IIC noted above.
These incremental adjustments primarily relate to Fuji Xerox’s Asia Pacific subsidiaries and involve improper revenue recognition, including revenue associated with leasing transactions, additional provisions for bad debt allowances and other asset impairments.
In certain instances, some of the adjustments related to inappropriate accounting and reporting practices in the Fuji Xerox Asia Pacific subsidiaries and are further evidence of inadequate management oversight and an insufficient entity level monitoring system for financial statements of subsidiaries beyond what was previously identified by the IIC.
Refer to Note 10 - Investments in Affiliates, at Equity in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was $23 million and included after-tax costs of $155 million related to the amortization of intangible assets, restructuring and related costs, transaction and related costs, non-service retirement-related costs and other discrete adjustments, resulting in adjusted1 net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox of $178 million.
Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the three months ended March 31, 2017 was $46 million and included after-tax costs of $130 million related to the amortization of intangible assets, restructuring and related costs, non-service retirement-related costs and other discrete adjustments, resulting in adjusted1 net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox of $176 million.
The decrease in net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the three months ended March 31, 2018 as compared to the prior year period was primarily due to lower equity income from our unconsolidated affiliates, which included our share of a significant restructuring charge recorded by Fuji Xerox, transaction and related costs and higher income taxes.
These impacts were partially offset by lower restructuring and related costs and non-service retirement-related costs.
The increase in adjusted1 net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the three months ended March 31, 2018 as compared to the prior year period was primarily related to increased operating profits reflecting the continued benefits of cost savings and productivity improvements, which offset the decline in revenues, as well as lower interest expense and a gain on the sale of non-core assets.


item4.txt
31(a) Certification of CEO pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) or Rule 15d-14(a).
31(b) Certification of CFO pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) or Rule 15d-14(a).
101.CAL XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase.
101.LAB XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase.


part2.txt
31(a) Certification of CEO pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) or Rule 15d-14(a).
31(b) Certification of CFO pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) or Rule 15d-14(a).
101.CAL XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase.
101.LAB XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase.


