item1.txt
Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements reflect the activity for both Xerox Holdings and Xerox for all periods presented, unless otherwise noted.
On March 6, 2019, the Xerox Board of Directors approved a reorganization (the “Reorganization”) of the Company's corporate structure into a holding company structure.
In March 2019, as part of Project Own It, we entered into a shared services arrangement with HCL Technologies (HCL) pursuant to which we are outsourcing certain global administrative and support functions, including, among others, selected information technology and finance functions (excluding accounting).
HCL is expected to make certain up-front and ongoing investments in software, tools and other technology to consolidate, optimize and automate the transferred functions with the goal of providing improved service levels and significant cost savings.
The shared services arrangement with HCL includes a total aggregate spending commitment by us of approximately $1.3 billion over the next 7 years.
The spending commitment excludes restructuring and related costs we are expected to incur in connection with the transition of the contemplated functions - refer to Note 12 - Restructuring Programs for additional information.
Xerox Holdings and Xerox consider the applicability and impact of all Accounting Standards Updates (ASUs) issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB).
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-15, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other - Internal Use Software (Subtopic 350-40), Customer's Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That is a Service Contract.
This update aligns the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software (and hosting arrangements that include an internal-use software license).
The update provides criteria for determining which implementation costs to capitalize as an asset related to the service contract and which costs to expense.


item2.txt
We refer to this analysis as "constant currency", “currency impact” or “the impact from currency.” This impact is calculated by translating current period activity in local currency using the comparable prior year period's currency translation rate.
Third quarter 2019 Net income attributable to Xerox Holdings increased $132 million as compared to third quarter 2018 primarily due to lower non-service retirement-related costs and Income tax expense as well as higher Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates.
In addition, lower revenues were more than offset by the continued benefits of cost savings and productivity improvements from our Project Own It transformation actions.
Third quarter 2019 Adjusted1 net income attributable to Xerox Holdings increased $26 million as compared to third quarter 2018.
The increase reflected increased operating profits as a result of the continued benefits from cost savings and productivity improvements from Project Own It, which more than offset the pace of revenue decline, as well as higher Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates.
Net income attributable to Xerox Holdings for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 increased $311 million as compared to the prior year period primarily due to higher Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates as well as lower Income tax expense and non-service retirement-related costs.
The increase also reflected the continued benefits of cost savings and productivity improvements from our Project Own It transformation actions, which more than offset the impact of lower revenues.


item4.txt
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Xerox Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2019.
3.1 Xerox Corporation's Restated Certificate of Incorporation filed with the Department of State of New York on July 31, 2019.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to Xerox Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2019.
3.3 Certificate of Amendment of Xerox Holdings Corporation’s Certificate of Incorporation dated July 31, 2019.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Xerox Holdings Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2019.
3.4 Xerox Holdings Corporation’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation filed with the Department of State of New York on July 31, 2019.


part2.txt
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Xerox Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2019.
3.1 Xerox Corporation's Restated Certificate of Incorporation filed with the Department of State of New York on July 31, 2019.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to Xerox Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2019.
3.3 Certificate of Amendment of Xerox Holdings Corporation’s Certificate of Incorporation dated July 31, 2019.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Xerox Holdings Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2019.
3.4 Xerox Holdings Corporation’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation filed with the Department of State of New York on July 31, 2019.


