item1.txt
The correction of the PBO was recorded as an out-of-period adjustment in the third quarter 2018 with the offset to the balance sheet recorded as a credit to Changes in defined benefit plans, net in Other comprehensive income for the period.
ASC Topic 606 defines a five-step process to recognize revenue and requires more judgment and estimates within the revenue recognition process than required under previous U.S. GAAP, including identifying performance obligations in the contract, estimating the amount of variable consideration to include in the transaction price and allocating the transaction price to each separate performance obligation.
Another change identified upon adoption was with respect to deferred contract costs, which include incremental costs of obtaining a contract and costs to fulfill a contract.
However, as a result of the contract cost guidance included in ASC Topic 606 and ASC Topic 340-40 "Contracts with Customers", upon adoption, we recorded a transition asset of $153, and a net of tax increase of $117 to Retained earnings, related to the incremental cost to obtain contracts.
Our services contracts may also include the sale or lease of equipment and software.
Certain document management services arrangements may also include an embedded lease of equipment.
In these instances, the revenues associated with the lease are recognized in accordance with the requirements for lease accounting.
In certain instances, we may provide lease financing to end-user customers who purchased equipment we sold to distributors or resellers.
We are not obligated to provide financing and we compete with other third-party leasing companies with respect to the lease financing provided to these end-user customers.
Revenues under bundled arrangements are allocated considering the relative standalone selling prices of the lease and non-lease deliverables included in the bundled arrangement.


item2.txt
We refer to this analysis as "constant currency", “currency impact” or “the impact from currency.” This impact is calculated by translating current period activity in local currency using the comparable prior year period's currency translation rate.
Refer to Note 19 - Contingencies and Litigation and Note 20 - Fuji Xerox Transaction and Recent Developments in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to this terminated transaction and related matters.
In 2018, in connection with the completion of the audits of Fuji Xerox’s fiscal year-end financial statements as of and for the years ended March 31, 2016 and 2017, as well as the review of Fuji Xerox’s unaudited interim financial statements as of and for the nine months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, additional adjustments and misstatements were identified.
These additional adjustments and misstatements were to the previously reported Net income of Fuji Xerox for the period from 2010 through 2017 and are incremental to the items identified by the IIC noted above.
These incremental adjustments primarily relate to Fuji Xerox’s Asia Pacific subsidiaries and involve improper revenue recognition, including revenue associated with leasing transactions, additional provisions for bad debt allowances and other asset impairments.
The decrease in Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 as compared to the respective prior year periods was primarily due to lower revenues and higher Income tax expense, which included an additional charge of $95 million in third quarter 2018 related to the impact of the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "Tax Act").
These impacts were partially offset by the continued benefits of cost savings and productivity improvements and lower non-service retirement-related costs.
The decrease in Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the three months ended September 30, 2018 was also partially offset by lower Transaction and related costs, net, primarily due to recoveries during third quarter 2018.
The decrease in Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was negatively impacted by Transaction and related costs, net and lower Equity in net income from unconsolidated affiliates, which included our share of a significant restructuring charge recorded by Fuji Xerox in the first quarter of 2018.
The decrease in adjusted1 Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 as compared to the respective prior year periods was primarily related to lower revenues and higher income tax expense, partially offset by the continued benefits of cost savings and productivity improvements.
The decrease in adjusted1 Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the three months ended September 30, 2018 was partially offset by higher Equity in net income from unconsolidated affiliates, while adjusted1 Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was negatively impacted by lower Equity in net income from unconsolidated affiliates, which included an out-of-period adjustment recorded during the first quarter of 2018.
Operating cash flow provided by continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was $725 million, as compared to a use of cash of $30 million for the prior year period.
The increase was primarily due to the prior year voluntary contributions of $500 million to our U.S. defined benefit pension plans and the reclassification of $170 million of collections of deferred proceeds and beneficial interests from the sale of receivables to investing cash flows as a result of an accounting change in the prior year (refer to Note 3 - Recent Accounting Pronouncements in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information).


item4.txt
31(a) Certification of CEO pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) or Rule 15d-14(a).
31(b) Certification of CFO pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) or Rule 15d-14(a).
32 Certification of CEO and CFO pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.


part2.txt
In July 2018, Registrant’s Board of Directors authorized a $1.0 billion share repurchase program.
This program replaces the $245 million of authority remaining under Registrant’s previously authorized share repurchase program.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1(A) to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the Quarter Ended June 30, 2018.
31(a) Certification of CEO pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) or Rule 15d-14(a).


