fls.txt



item1.txt
Refer to Note 1 - Basis of Presentation for additional information.
Refer to Note 1 - Basis of Presentation - Corporate Reorganization, for additional information.
In this Reorganization, shareholders of Xerox (the predecessor publicly held parent company) became shareholders of Xerox Holdings on a one-for-one basis; maintaining the same number of shares and ownership percentage as held in Xerox immediately prior to the Reorganization.
In March 2019, as part of Project Own It, we entered into a shared services arrangement with HCL Technologies (HCL) pursuant to which we are outsourcing certain global administrative and support functions, including, among others, selected information technology and finance functions (excluding accounting).
HCL is expected to make certain up-front and ongoing investments in software, tools and other technology to consolidate, optimize and automate the transferred functions with the goal of providing improved service levels and significant cost savings.
The shared services arrangement with HCL includes a total aggregate spending commitment by us of approximately $1.3 billion over the next 7 years.
The spending commitment excludes restructuring and related costs we are expected to incur in connection with the transition of the contemplated functions - refer to Note 12 - Restructuring Programs for additional information.
The cost has been allocated to the various functional expense lines in the Condensed Consolidated Income Statement based on an assessment of the nature and amount of the costs incurred for the various transferred functions prior to their transfer to HCL.
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Financial Instruments Credit Losses - Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments, with additional updates being issued in 2018 and 2019.
This update requires measurement and recognition of expected credit losses for financial assets.
The update impacts financial assets and net investment in leases that are not accounted for at fair value through Net Income.
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-15, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other - Internal Use Software (Subtopic 350-40), Customer's Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That is a Service Contract.
This update aligns the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software (and hosting arrangements that include an internal-use software license).
The update provides criteria for determining which implementation costs to capitalize as an asset related to the service contract and which costs to expense.
This update, as well as additional amendments and targeted improvements issued in 2018 and early 2019, supersedes existing lease accounting guidance found under ASC 840, Leases (“ASC 840”) and requires the recognition of right-to-use assets and lease obligations by lessees for those leases originally classified as operating leases under prior lease guidance.


item2.txt
We refer to this analysis as "constant currency", “currency impact” or “the impact from currency.” This impact is calculated by translating current period activity in local currency using the comparable prior year period's currency translation rate.
Lower revenues from our mid-range ConnectKey devices also reflected the continued impact of organizational changes within our XBS sales organization as part of Project Own It. The decline in Equipment sales primarily reflected lower revenues from our mid-range products, which were impacted by organizational changes within XBS sales organization, as we transitioned a significant number of accounts from U.S. Enterprise in the first half of 2019.
Second quarter 2019 Net income attributable to Xerox increased $69 million as compared to second quarter 2018 primarily due to lower Transaction and related costs, net and higher Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates.
Net income attributable to Xerox for the six months ended June 30, 2019 increased $179 million as compared to the prior year period primarily due to higher Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates as well as lower Transaction and related costs, net and Income tax expense.
Adjusted1 net income attributable to Xerox for the six months ended June 30, 2019 increased $61 million as compared to the prior year period.
Cash flows provided by operating activities for the six months ended June 30, 2019 were $539 million, as compared to $451 million in the prior year period primarily reflecting increased dividends from equity investments and lower cash payments for Transaction and related costs.
Cash used in investing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2019 was $72 million including capital expenditures of $31 million and acquisitions of $42 million.
While this impact gradually mitigated during the quarter, it still remains and we recognize that the implementation of our strategic initiatives to transform the company for long-term sustainability (including offering, go-to-market, sales coverage and cost structure changes) will continue to impact our revenues in the near term.


item4.txt
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Xerox Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2019.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to Xerox Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2019.
3.3 Certificate of Amendment of Xerox Holdings Corporation’s Certificate of Incorporation dated July 31, 2019.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Xerox Holdings Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2019.


part2.txt
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Xerox Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2019.
3.1 Xerox Corporation's Restated Certificate of Incorporation filed with the Department of State of New York on July 31, 2019.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to Xerox Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2019.


