fls.txt



item1.txt
The adoption of this guidance had no material impact on the Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements and disclosures.
The Revolving Credit Facility is available for cash borrowings, subject to compliance with certain covenants and other customary conditions to borrowing, and for the issuance of letters of credit up to a sub-limit of $75 million.
The Company classifies items in Level 1 if the financial assets consist of securities for which quoted prices are available in an active market.
The interest on the 2018 Notes is payable semi-annually on May 15 and November 15 of each year.
Holders of shares are entitled to one vote per share on all matters upon which the ordinary shares are entitled to vote, including the election of directors.
The interest on the Notes is payable semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 of each year.
The Company operates and reports financial results on a fiscal year of 52 or 53 weeks ending on the Friday closest to June 30.
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The closing of the acquisition is subject to regulatory approvals and other closing conditions.
Legal, Environmental and Other Contingencies” of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Upon adoption, excess tax benefits or deficiencies from share-based award activity are reflected in the condensed consolidated statements of operations as a component of the provision for income taxes, whereas they previously were recognized in the Shareholder’s equity in the condensed consolidated balance sheets.
Some of the Company’s operations require environmental permits and controls to prevent and reduce air and water pollution, and these permits are subject to modification, renewal and revocation by issuing authorities.
The Board of Directors can also increase or decrease the number of shares of a series, but not below the number of shares of that series then outstanding, without any further vote or action by the shareholders.
As of December 29, 2017 and June 30, 2017, the Company does not have outstanding foreign currency forward exchange contracts.
Intangibles are amortized on a straight-line basis over the respective estimated useful lives of the assets.
The interest on the 2024 Notes is payable semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 of each year.
The interest on the 2022 Notes is payable semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 of each year.


item2.txt
Hard disk drives are devices that store digitally encoded data on rapidly rotating disks with magnetic surfaces.
As of December 29, 2017, we had a liability for unrecognized tax benefits and an accrual for the payment of related interest totaling $11 million, none of which is expected to be settled within one year.
Product development expense for the December 2017 quarter decreased by $13 million from the September 2017 quarter primarily due to a $4 million decrease in salaries and employee benefits as a result of the restructuring of our workforce in prior periods, a $13 million decrease due to related operational efficiencies, partially offset by an increase in variable compensation expense.
Compared to December 2016 quarter, Other expense, net increased by $2 million in the December 2017 quarter primarily due to a $16 million of unfavorable change in foreign currency exchange rates and a $10 million increase in interest expense on the issuance of $750 million of 4.25% Senior Notes due 2022 and $500 million of 4.875% Senior Notes due 2024 in the quarter ended March 31, 2017, offset by the absence of a $25 million charge related to the impairment of a strategic investment in the December 2016 quarter.
Disk drives continue to be the primary medium of mass data storage due to their performance attributes, high quality and cost effectiveness.
Gross margin as a percentage of revenue for the December 2017 quarter increased by 200 basis points from the September 2017 quarter primarily driven by favorable product mix and improved absorption of factories due to higher demand for the Company’s high capacity HDD product portfolio, partially offset by price erosion.
Our portfolio includes modular original equipment manufacturer (“OEM”) storage systems and scale-out storage servers.
As of December 29, 2017, $0.9 billion remained available for repurchase under our existing repurchase authorization limit.


item3.txt
We monitor and limit our credit exposure for our foreign currency forward exchange contracts by performing ongoing credit evaluations.
We currently do not use derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio.


item4.txt



part2.txt
For a discussion of legal proceedings, see “Part I, Item 1.


