During the fiscal year 2017, the Company recorded impairment charges of $35 million in order to write down the carrying amount of such properties to their estimated fair values less costs to sell.
Based on its assessment, the Company plans to adopt the new revenue standard in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, utilizing the modified retrospective method of transition.
The Board of Directors is authorized to establish from time to time, the number of shares to be included in each series, and to fix the rights, preferences and privileges of the shares of each wholly unissued series and any of its qualifications, limitations or restrictions.
The fair values were measured with the assistance of third-party valuation models which used inputs such as comparable market data for similar land sale transactions adjusted for differences in comparable properties to derive the estimated fair value of the subject properties and the cost approach valuation techniques for buildings as part of the analysis.
Such adjustments are of a normal and recurring nature.
As of March 30, 2018, no borrowings had been drawn or letters of credit utilized under the Revolving Credit Facility.
Depreciation related to the properties ceased as of the date these were determined to be held for sale.
Convolve, Inc. (“Convolve”) and Massachusetts Institute of Technology (“MIT”) v. Seagate Technology LLC, et al.
The Company determined no available-for-sale securities were other-than-temporarily impaired as of June 30, 2017.
ASC Topic 606 outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers and supersedes most current revenue recognition guidance, including industry-specific guidance.
On September 6, 2017, the court of appeals issued its judgment affirming PTAB’s decision on the ‘057 patent.All repurchases are effected as redemptions in accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association.
Sales programs were approximately 12%, 12% and 11% of gross drive revenue for the March 2018 quarter, December 2017 quarter and March 2017 quarter, respectively.
We maintain various sales programs such as channel rebates and price masking.
We maintain various sales programs such as channel rebates and price masking.
We operate and report financial results on a fiscal year of 52 or 53 weeks ending on the Friday closest to June 30.From time to time, we may enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage exposure related to certain foreign currency commitments and anticipated foreign currency denominated expenditures. ITEM 5.