fls.txt
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 or Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each as amended, including, among other things, statements about our plans, strategies and prospects, market demand for our products, shifts in technology, estimates of industry growth, our ability to effectively manage our debt obligations and our cash liquidity position, our restructuring efforts, the sufficiency of our sources of cash to meet our cash needs for the next 12 months and our expectations regarding capital expenditures and projected cost savings for the fiscal year ending July 3, 2020.


item1.txt
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Legal, Environmental and Other Contingencies” of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
In accordance with its policy, the Company reviews the estimated useful lives of its fixed assets on an ongoing basis.
Some of the Company’s operations require environmental permits and controls to prevent and reduce air and water pollution, and these permits are subject to modification, renewal and revocation by issuing authorities.
The interest on the Notes is payable semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 of each year.
The district court ruled in 2010 that the ‘267 patent was out of the case.
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standard Update (“ASU”) 2016-02 (ASC Topic 842), Leases and subsequently issued certain interpretive clarifications on this new guidance which amends a number of aspects of lease accounting, including requiring a lessee to recognize an ROU asset and corresponding lease liability for operating leases and enhanced disclosures.
Derivatives that are not designated as hedging instruments or are not assessed to be highly effective are adjusted to fair value through earnings.
From time to time, the Company enters into cash flow hedges in the form of foreign currency forward exchange contracts.
The Company did not recognize any material amounts related to the loss of hedge designation on discontinued cash flow hedges during the three months ended October 4, 2019 and September 28, 2018, respectively.
All of the foreign currency forward exchange contracts mature within 12 months.
Additionally, the Company’s lease term may include options to extend or terminate the lease.
As of June 28, 2019, the Company had $23 million of held for sale land and building (collectively, the “properties”) included in Other current assets on its Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The Board of Directors can also increase or decrease the number of shares of a series, but not below the number of shares of that series then outstanding, without any further vote or action by the shareholders.
The Company’s SSD product portfolio is mainly comprised of Serial Attached SCSI (“SAS”) and Non-Volatile Memory Express (“NVMe”) and is designed for applications in enterprise servers and storage systems.
other comprehensive loss until the hedged item is recognized in earnings.
The Company’s accounting policies for these instruments are based on whether the instruments are classified as designated or non-designated hedging instruments.
The amount of loss recognized in income related to the ineffective portion of the hedging relationships and to the amount excluded from the assessment of hedge ineffectiveness was not material for the three months ended October 4, 2019.


item2.txt
Our liquidity requirements are primarily to meet our working capital, product development and capital expenditure needs, to fund scheduled payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness, and to fund our quarterly dividend and any future strategic investments.
We repurchased approximately 9 million of our ordinary shares for $450 million and paid $170 million in dividends.
We generated revenue of approximately $2.6 billion, gross margin of 26% and our operating cash flow was $456 million.
•$39 million in proceeds from the issuance of ordinary shares under employee stock plans.
•a decrease of $20 million in accrued employee compensation primarily due to cash paid to our employees as part of our discretionary spending plans.
Amortization of intangibles for the September 2019 quarter decreased by $2 million from the June 2019 quarter and the September 2018 quarter due to certain intangible assets reaching the end of their useful lives.
Additionally, we changed our estimate of the useful lives of our manufacturing equipment from a range of three to five years to a range of three to seven years.


item3.txt
Additionally, the investment portfolio is diversified and structured to minimize credit risk.
We did not have any material net gains or losses recognized in Cost of revenue, or Other, net for cash flow hedges due to hedge ineffectiveness or discontinued cash flow hedges during the three months ended October 4, 2019.
The contracts were effective as of October 4, 2019 and will mature on September 16, 2025.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Legal, Environmental and Other Contingencies” of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.


