The Company has completed the adoption and implemented policies, processes and controls to support the new standard’s measurement and disclosure requirements.
The anti-dilutive shares related to employee equity award plans that were excluded from the computation of diluted net income per share were less than 1 million for the three and nine months ended March 29, 2019, and approximately 1 million for the three and nine months ended March 30, 2018.
The information as of June 29, 2018 was derived from the Company’s audited Consolidated Balance Sheet as of June 29, 2018.
Hard disk drives are devices that store digitally encoded data on rapidly rotating disks with magnetic surfaces.
The Company operates and reports financial results on a fiscal year of 52 or 53 weeks ending on the Friday closest to June 30.
The Company recorded approximately $26 million and $85 million of share-based compensation expense during the three and nine months ended March 30, 2018, respectively.
The Company pays a floating rate, based on LIBOR plus an interest rate spread, on the notional amount of the TRS.
In addition to HDDs, the Company produces a broad range of data storage products including solid state drives (“SSDs”) and storage subsystems.
During the twelve months beginning March 30, 2019, the Company expects that its unrecognized tax benefits could be reduced by approximately $6 million, primarily as a result of the expiration of certain statutes of limitation.
Intangibles are amortized on a straight-line basis over the respective estimated useful lives of the assets.
As of June 29, 2018, the Company had no material available-for-sale securities that had been in a continuous unrealized loss position for a period greater than 12 months.You should read this discussion in conjunction with financial information and related notes included elsewhere in this report.
In addition to HDDs, we produce a broad range of data storage products including solid state drives (“SSD”) and storage subsystems.
During the March 2019 quarter, we shipped 77 exabytes of HDD storage capacity.
Purchase obligations are defined as contractual obligations for the purchase of goods or services, which are enforceable and legally binding on us, and that specify all significant terms.
As of March 29, 2019, approximately $200 million in borrowings had been drawn and no borrowings had been utilized for letters of credit or swing line loans issued under the 2019 Revolving Credit Facility.Foreign Currency Exchange Risk.There is no expiration date on this authorization.