fls.txt



item1.txt
Preferred shares – The Company may issue preferred shares in one or more series, up to the authorized amount, without shareholder approval.
The interest on the 2034 Notes is payable semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 of each year.
For OEM sales, rebates are typically established by estimating the most likely amount of consideration expected to be received based on an OEM customer’s volume of purchases from Seagate or other agreed upon rebate programs.
The Company is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate, interest rate, and to a lesser extent, equity market risks relating to its ongoing business operations.
The July 2016 Plan included reducing worldwide headcount by approximately 6,500 employees.
Lambeth Magnetic Structures LLC v. Seagate Technology (US) Holdings, Inc., et al.
Level 3 — Prices or valuations that require inputs that are both unobservable and significant to the fair value measurement.
As of December 28, 2018 and June 29, 2018, the Company had approximately $1.3 billion investment in non-convertible preferred stock of Toshiba Memory Corporation (“TMC”, formerly known as “K.K.
The Company is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate, interest rate, and to a lesser extent, equity market risks relating to its ongoing business operations.
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09 (ASC Topic 606), Revenue from Contracts with Customers, and FASB also issued certain interpretive clarifications on this new guidance which outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers and supersedes the revenue recognition guidance under ASC 605.
$500 million Aggregate Principal Amount of 4.875% Senior Notes due March 2024 (the “2024 Notes”).
For a discussion of legal proceedings, see “Part I, Item 1.
The Company’s accounting policies for these instruments are based on whether the instruments are classified as designated or non-designated hedging instruments.
For fiscal year 2019, the Company has included these effects of the Tax Act in its fiscal year 2019 financial statements and has concluded the impact will not be material.
Where appropriate the Company’s or the counterparty’s non-performance risk is considered in determining the fair values of liabilities and assets, respectively.
The Company’s accounting policies for these instruments are based on whether the instruments are classified as designated or non-designated hedging instruments.
In addition, the Revised Indemnification Agreement provides that Seagate-Cayman will advance expenses incurred by an Indemnitee in connection with enforcement of the Revised Indemnification Agreement or with the investigation, settlement or appeal of any action or proceeding against him or her as to which he or she could be indemnified.


item2.txt
All repurchases are effected as redemptions in accordance with our Articles of Association.
Marketing and administrative expense.
References to “$” are to United States dollars.
Disk drives continue to be the primary medium of mass data storage due to their performance attributes, high quality and cost effectiveness.
Outside of one year, we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of when cash settlement with a taxing authority will occur.
The income tax provision for the three and six months ended December 28, 2018 included approximately $5 million and $4 million of net discrete tax benefits, respectively, primarily associated with the recognition of previously unrecognized tax benefits related to the expiration of certain statutes of limitation.
In the December 2018 quarter, total warranty cost was 0.6% of revenue and included a favorable change in estimates of prior warranty accruals of 0.5% of revenue due to improvements in return rates on newer generation products.
We generated revenue of approximately $2.7 billion, gross margin of 29% and our operating cash flow was $288 million.


item3.txt
We have an investment in debt security of $1.3 billion carried at amortized cost.
We determined no available-for-sale debt securities were other-than-temporarily impaired as of December 28, 2018.
At this time, we have not identified any material exposure associated with the potential changes related to the British vote to exit the European Union.


item4.txt
The certifications attached as Exhibit 32.1 that accompany this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are not deemed filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and are not to be incorporated by reference into any filing of Seagate Technology plc under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, whether made before or after the date of this Form 10-Q, irrespective of any general incorporation language contained in such filing.


part2.txt
None.


