fls.txt



item1.txt
The impact of applying the new accounting standard on the Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements for the September 2018 quarter was not material.
The Company’s operations are subject to U.S. and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites.
The Company records estimated variable consideration at the time of revenue recognition as a reduction to net revenue.
No impairment was identified as of September 28, 2018 and June 29, 2018.
At each of these sites, the Company has an assigned portion of the financial liability based on the type and amount of hazardous substances disposed of by each party at the site and the number of financially viable parties.
The March 2017 Plan was substantially completed by the end of fiscal year 2017.
The following tables show the total notional value of the Company’s outstanding foreign currency forward exchange contracts as of September 28, 2018 and June 29, 2018.
The Company determined no available-for-sale securities were other-than-temporarily impaired as of June 29, 2018.
The Company operates and reports financial results on a fiscal year of 52 or 53 weeks ending on the Friday closest to June 30.
The Company is subject to equity market risks due to changes in the fair value of the notional investments selected by its employees as part of its Non-qualified Deferred Compensation Plan—the Seagate Deferred Compensation Plan (the “SDCP”).
As of September 28, 2018 and June 29, 2018, the Company had no Level 3 assets or liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis.
Where appropriate the Company’s or the counterparty’s non-performance risk is considered in determining the fair values of liabilities and assets, respectively.
However, an Indemnitee shall not be indemnified under the Revised Indemnification Agreement for (i) any fraud or dishonesty in the performance of Indemnitee’s duty to Seagate-Cayman or the applicable subsidiary of Seagate-Cayman or (ii) Indemnitee’s conscious, intentional or willful failure to act honestly, lawfully and in good faith with a view to the best interests of Seagate-Cayman or the applicable subsidiary of Seagate-Cayman.
The Board of Directors may authorize the issuance of preferred shares with voting or conversion rights that could harm the voting power or other rights of the holders of the ordinary shares.
$1 billion Aggregate Principal Amount of 4.75% Senior Notes due January 2025 (the “2025 Notes”).
The following tables show the total notional value of the Company’s outstanding foreign currency forward exchange contracts as of September 28, 2018 and June 29, 2018.
The investment, with a contractual maturity of six years starting from May 31, 2018, is accounted for as a held-to-maturity debt security, carried at cost and adjusted for amortization of transaction costs into interest income.


item2.txt
Overview of our business.
Adjustments to revenues due to under or over accruals for sales programs related to revenues reported in prior quarterly periods were less than 1% of quarterly gross revenue in all periods presented.
Restructuring and other, net for the September 2018 quarter was comprised of charges primarily related to a voluntary early exit program.
From time to time we may repurchase any of our outstanding notes in open market or privately negotiated purchases or otherwise, or we may repurchase outstanding notes pursuant to the terms of the applicable indenture.
As of September 28, 2018, $0.7 billion remained available for repurchase under our existing repurchase authorization limit.
Marketing and administrative expense.
As of September 28, 2018, $0.7 billion remained available for repurchase under our existing repurchase authorization limit.


item3.txt
Interest Rate Risk.
Equivalent to the unrealized net gain (loss) on existing contracts.
Our foreign currency forward exchange contracts include a notional amount of approximately 7 billion Japanese Yen ($66 million at June 29, 2018), to hedge the PIK income related to TMC investment, which is designated as a cash flow hedge.


item4.txt
Effective October 30, 2018, Stephen J. Luczo transitioned from his role as Executive Chairman and will serve as a non-employee director and as the Chairman of the Board of Directors.


part2.txt
Effective October 30, 2018, Stephen J. Luczo transitioned from his role as Executive Chairman and will serve as a non-employee director and as the Chairman of the Board of Directors.


