In management’s opinion, the accompanying interim Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company include all adjustments, consisting only of normal, recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of the Company’s financial position for the interim periods presented.
2016-13, Financial Instruments – Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments which amends the impairment model by requiring entities to use a forward-looking approach based on expected losses rather than incurred losses to estimate credit losses on certain types of financial instruments, including trade receivables.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements and will adopt the standard on the first day of the Company’s 2021 fiscal year.
This standard resulted in the Company recording a right-of-use asset and lease liability for all leases, but otherwise the standard did not have a material impact on the financial statements.
Specifically, payments for debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs, including third-party costs, premiums paid, and other fees paid to lenders that are directly related to the debt prepayment or debt extinguishment, excluding accrued interest, are now classified as financing activities.
Adoption of this standard did not have an impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company, included herein.
No additional awards may be granted under the 1994 Plan, although awards outstanding under the 1994 Plan remain outstanding and governed by its terms.
metrics are met to a sufficient extent, the shares earned at the end of fiscal 2020 on the basis of that performance will vest in four equal installments beginning on or about May 15, 2020 and continuing on the same date in calendar 2021, 2022 and 2023, provided that the respective employee remains employed by the Company on each such date.We believe, however, that our strength in service, the breadth and depth of our product offering, our information technology system, industry experience and knowledge, and our large customer base and purchasing relationships with approximately 400 manufacturers, provide us with a significant competitive advantage over new entrants to the marketplace.
Revenues in our public carrier market, value-added resellers and integrators market and retail market decreased by 1.3%, 6.1% and 24.1%, respectively.
The decline in the retail segment was driven by significantly lower revenues from one of our more significant retail customers following its acquisition during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019, change in business model and subsequent transition of its business elsewhere, as well as ongoing overall market softness.
Gross profit for the second quarter of fiscal 2020 decreased by 16.2% compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2019.
Overall gross profit margin decreased from 19.8% in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 to 18.6% in the second quarter of fiscal 2020.
Within our commercial segment, gross profit margin in our public carrier market increased from 12.0% to 12.4% due to changes in customer mix.
Agreements or arrangements on which these relationships are based typically do not include any obligation in respect of any specific product purchase or sale, are of limited duration, and are terminable by either party upon relatively short notice.
Total selling, general and administrative expenses decreased by $3.7 million for the second quarter of fiscal 2020, compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2019.Controls and Procedures.Item 1.