In management’s opinion, the accompanying interim consolidated financial statements of the Company include all adjustments, consisting only of normal, recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of the Company’s financial position for the interim periods presented.
The results of operations presented in the accompanying interim consolidated financial statements are not necessarily representative of operations for an entire year.
The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
The new standard will change the classification of certain cash payments and receipts within the cash flow statement.
Specifically, payments for debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs, including third-party costs, premiums paid, and other fees paid to lenders that are directly related to the debt prepayment or debt extinguishment, excluding accrued interest, will now be classified as financing activities.
The impact to the Company's results of operations related to this provision in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 was an increase in the provision for income taxes of $0.04 million, and a 0.4% higher effective tax rate than if the standard had not been adopted.
Among other things, the ASU provides clarification on the presentation of the costs of computer software developed or obtained for internal use.This commentary should be read in conjunction with the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations from the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 26, 2017.
We experienced third quarter fiscal 2018 revenue growth within our commercial segments of 4.2% and a decrease in revenue in the retail segment of 7.9%.
The growth in our commercial segment is driven by increases in our government, private system operators and value-added resellers market.
We believe, however, that our strength in service, the breadth and depth of our product offering, our information technology system, industry experience and knowledge, and our large customer base and purchasing relationships with approximately 450 manufacturers, provide us with a significant competitive advantage over new entrants to the marketplace.
We also experienced revenue growth within our private system operators and our value-added resellers markets of 8.4% and 8.0%, respectively, over the prior year quarter.
The growth in our commercial segment was more than offset by a decline in our retail segment of 7.9%, due, in part, to the timing of the iPhone launch.
Overall gross profit margin decreased slightly from 20.4% in the third quarter of fiscal 2017 to 20.2% in the third quarter of fiscal 2018.
Agreements or arrangements on which these relationships are based typically do not include any obligation in respect of any specific product purchase or sale, are of limited duration, and are terminable by either party upon relatively short notice.
Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues decreased slightly from 18.9% for the third quarter of fiscal 2017, to 18.7% for the third quarter of fiscal 2018.Item 1.