As permitted by the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission applicable to Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, these notes are condensed and do not contain all disclosures required by generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
As a result of the adoption of ASC 606 "Revenue from Contracts with Customers," Cognex Corporation (the "Company") has provided new disclosures related to revenue recognition in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Application-specific customer solutions that are comprised of a combination of products and services are accounted for as one performance obligation to deliver a total solution to the customer.
Shipping and handling activities for which the Company is responsible under the terms and conditions of the sale are not accounted for as performance obligations but as fulfillment costs.
These activities are required to fulfill the Company’s promise to transfer the good and are expensed when revenue is recognized.
The Company does not assess whether promised goods or services are performance obligations if they are immaterial in the context of the contract.
The Company determines the transaction price as the amount of consideration it expects to receive in exchange for transferring promised goods or services to the customer.
The Company includes estimated variable consideration in the transaction price only to the extent it is probable that a significant reversal of revenue will not occur when the uncertainty is resolved.
The Company allocates the transaction price to each performance obligation at contract inception based on a relative stand-alone selling price basis, or the price at which the Company would sell the good or service separately to similar customers in similar circumstances.
The Company recognizes revenue when it transfers the promised goods or services to the customer.
Revenue for application-specific customer solutions is recognized at the point in time when the solution is validated, which is the point in time when the Company can objectively determine that the agreed-upon specifications in the contract have been met and the customer will accept the performance obligations in the arrangement.
If the Company can objectively determine that control of a good or service has been transferred to the customer in accordance with the agreed-upon specifications in the contract, then customer acceptance is a formality.
The Company's contracts have an original expected duration of less than one year, and therefore as a practical expedient, the Company has elected to ignore the impact of the time value of money on a contract and to expense sales commissions.Certain statements made in this report, as well as oral statements made by the Company from time to time, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
In addition to product revenue derived from the sale of machine vision products, the Company also generates revenue by providing maintenance and support, consulting, and training services to its customers; however, service revenue accounted for less than 10% of total revenue for all periods presented.
Customers in the consumer electronics and automotive industries contribute the largest percentage to the Company's factory automation revenue.
A small percentage of the Company’s customers are in the semiconductor and electronics capital equipment market.
Revenue for the first quarter of 2018 totaled $169,567,000, representing an increase of 22% from the first quarter of 2017 driven primarily by strong sales in the logistics and automotive industries.