PART II. OTHER INFORMATION



Item 1. Legal Proceedings. 



From time to time, various lawsuits, claims and proceedings have been, and may in the future be, instituted or asserted against the Company, including those pertaining to patent infringement, intellectual property, environmental hazards, product liability and warranty, safety and health, employment and contractual matters.



The semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights. From time to time, third parties have asserted and may in the future assert patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to the Company’s business and have demanded and may in the future demand that the Company license their technology. The outcome of any such litigation cannot be predicted with certainty and some such lawsuits, claims or proceedings may be disposed of unfavorably to the Company. Generally speaking, intellectual property disputes often have a risk of injunctive relief, which, if imposed against the Company, could materially and adversely affect the Company’s financial condition, or results of operations. From time to time the Company may also be involved in legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business.





Item 1A. Risk Factors.



In addition to the other information set forth in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, you should carefully consider the factors discussed in Part I, Item 1A Risk Factors in the 2018 10-K, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results. There have been no material changes from the risk factors previously disclosed in the 2018 10-K.



Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds. 















Item 6. Exhibits. 





SIGNATURES 



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. 





