Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.



This report and other documents we have filed with the SEC contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), and are subject to the “safe harbor” created by those sections. Words such as “anticipates,” “believes,” “continue,” “could,” “estimates,” “expects,” “intends,” “may,” “plans,” “potential,” “predicts,” “seek,” “should,” “will,” “would,” and similar expressions or variations or negatives of such words are intended to identify forward-looking statements, but are not the exclusive means of identifying forward-looking statements in this report. Additionally, statements concerning future matters such as the development of new products, enhancements of technologies, sales levels, expense levels and other statements regarding matters that are not historical are forward-looking statements. Although forward-looking statements in this report reflect the good faith judgment of our management, such statements can only be based on facts and factors currently known by us. Consequently, forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties and actual results and outcomes may differ materially and adversely from the results and outcomes discussed in or anticipated by the forward-looking statements. A number of important factors could cause actual results to differ materially and adversely from those in the forward-looking statements. We urge you to consider the risks and uncertainties discussed in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and the 2018 10-K, under the heading “Risk Factors” and in the other documents we have filed with the SEC in evaluating our forward-looking statements. We have no plans, and undertake no obligation, to revise or update our forward-looking statements to reflect any event or circumstance that may arise after the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We caution readers not to place undue reliance upon any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made. 



In this document, the words “we,” “our,” “ours” and “us” refer only to Skyworks Solutions, Inc. and its subsidiaries and not any other person or entity.



RESULTS OF OPERATIONS



THREE AND NINE MONTHS ENDED JUNE 28, 2019, AND JUNE 29, 2018







OVERVIEW



We, together with our consolidated subsidiaries, are empowering the wireless networking revolution. Our analog semiconductors are connecting people, places, and things spanning a number of new applications within the aerospace, automotive, broadband, cellular infrastructure, connected home, industrial, medical, military, smartphone, tablet and wearable markets.



GENERAL









NET REVENUE





We market and sell our products directly to OEMs of communications and electronics products, third-party original design manufacturers and contract manufacturers, and indirectly through electronic components distributors. We generally experience seasonal peaks during our fourth and first fiscal quarters, primarily as a result of increased worldwide production of consumer electronics in anticipation of increased holiday sales, whereas our second and third fiscal quarters are typically lower and in line with seasonal industry trends.



We generated net revenue of $767.0 million for the three months ended June 28, 2019, a decrease of $127.3 million or 14.2%, as compared with $894.3 million for the corresponding period in fiscal 2018. Net revenue decreased by 10.8% or $310.2 million to $2,549.4 million for the nine months ended June 28, 2019, as compared with $2,859.6 million for the corresponding period in fiscal 2018. This decrease in net revenue for the three and nine months ended June 28, 2019, is primarily related to weakness in smartphone demand, partially offset by the increasing number of applications of the Internet of Things, our expanding analog product portfolio supporting new vertical markets including automotive, consumer, industrial, infrastructure, medical, and military, and our success in capturing a higher share of the increasing radio frequency and analog content per device as smartphone models continue to evolve. Additionally, net revenue for the three and nine months ended June 28, 2019, was adversely impacted as a result of the U.S. Bureau of Industry and Security of the U.S. Department of Commerce placing Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. and certain of its affiliates (collectively, “Huawei”) on the Bureau’s Entity List (the “Entity List”).



GROSS PROFIT





Gross profit represents net revenue less cost of goods sold. Our cost of goods sold consists primarily of purchased materials, labor and overhead (including depreciation and share-based compensation expense) associated with product manufacturing. Erosion of average selling prices of established products is typical of the semiconductor industry. As part of our normal course of business, we mitigate the gross margin impact of declining average selling prices with efforts to increase unit volumes, reduce material costs, improve manufacturing efficiencies, lower manufacturing costs of existing products and by introducing new and higher value-added products.



The $139.1 million decrease in gross profit for the three months ended June 28, 2019, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, was primarily the result of lower average selling prices and lower unit volumes with a gross profit impact of $106.9 million. In addition, we incurred a $66.6 million inventory-related charge due to lower expected demand as a result of Huawei being added to the Entity List. These negative impacts were partially offset by favorable product mix that positively impacted gross profit by $34.4 million. Gross profit margin decreased to 40.7% of net revenue for the three months ended June 28, 2019, as compared with 50.5% in the corresponding period in fiscal 2018.



The $249.3 million decrease in gross profit for the nine months ended June 28, 2019, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, was primarily the result of lower average selling prices and lower unit volumes with a gross profit impact of $405.7 million. In addition, we incurred a $66.6 million inventory-related charge due to lower expected demand as a result of Huawei being added to the Entity List. These negative impacts were partially offset by favorable product mix that positively impacted gross profit by $223.0 million. Gross profit margin decreased to 47.0% of net revenue for the nine months ended June 28, 2019, as compared with 50.6% in the corresponding period in fiscal 2018. 



RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT





Research and development expenses consist primarily of direct personnel costs including share-based compensation expense, costs for pre-production evaluation and testing of new devices, masks, engineering prototypes and design tool costs.



The increase in research and development expenses for the three and nine months ended June 28, 2019, as compared with the corresponding periods in fiscal 2018, was primarily related to an increase in employee-related compensation expense and product development–related expenses. Research and development expense increased as a percentage of net revenue, when compared with 



the corresponding periods in fiscal 2018, as a result of our increased investment in developing new technologies and products, as well as the decrease in net revenue.



SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE





Selling, general and administrative expenses include legal and related costs, accounting, treasury, human resources, information systems, customer service, bad debt expense, sales commissions, share-based compensation expense, advertising, marketing, costs associated with business combinations completed or contemplated during the period and other costs.



The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses for the three months ended June 28, 2019, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, was primarily related to increases in legal and software costs. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the three months ended June 28, 2019, increased as a percentage of net revenue, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, primarily due to the decrease in net revenue. 



The decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses for the nine months ended June 28, 2019, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, was primarily related to a decrease in share-based compensation expense. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the nine months ended June 28, 2019, increased as a percentage of net revenue, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, due to the decrease in net revenue. 



AMORTIZATION OF INTANGIBLES





During the three and nine months ended June 28, 2019, $9.2 million and $24.7 million in amortization of intangibles were included in cost of goods sold, respectively, and $5.5 million and $18.6 million in amortization of intangibles were included in selling, general and administrative expense, respectively. During the three and nine months ended June 29, 2018, $1.7 million and $4.5 million in amortization of intangibles were included in cost of goods sold, respectively, and $3.9 million and $12.0 million in amortization of intangibles were included in selling, general and administrative expense, respectively.



The increase in amortization expense for the three and nine months ended June 28, 2019, as compared with the corresponding periods in fiscal 2018, was primarily due to amortization attributable to the Avnera acquisition completed in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018.



PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES 





We recorded a provision for income taxes of $17.8 million (which consisted of $1.8 million and $16.0 million related to United States and foreign income taxes, respectively) and $84.0 million (which consisted of $52.7 million and $31.3 million related to United States and foreign income taxes, respectively) for the three and nine months ended June 28, 2019, respectively. 



The effective tax rates for the three and nine months ended June 28, 2019, were 11.0% and 11.6%, respectively, as compared with 7.8% and 36.0% for the three and nine months ended June 29, 2018, respectively. The decrease in effective tax rates for the nine months ended June 28, 2019, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, was primarily due to the enactment of the 2017 Tax Reform Act including a one-time charge related to the mandatory deemed repatriation tax on foreign earnings and a one-time charge related to the revaluation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. 



The difference between our effective tax rates for the three and nine months ended June 28, 2019, and the federal statutory rate of 21.0% resulted primarily from foreign earnings taxed at rates lower than the federal statutory rate, a benefit from FDII, and research and experimentation and foreign tax credits earned, partially offset by a tax on GILTI, and an increase in tax expense related to a change in the reserve for uncertain tax positions.



LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES







Cash provided by operating activities consists of net income for the period adjusted for certain non-cash items and changes in certain operating assets and liabilities. During the nine months ended June 28, 2019, we generated $950.4 million of cash from operating activities, a decrease of $102.6 million as compared with the $1,053.0 million generated during the nine months ended June 29, 2018. The decrease in cash from operating activities during the nine months ended June 28, 2019, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2018, was primarily related to an increase in working capital.





Cash used in investing activities consists primarily of capital expenditures and cash paid related to the purchase of marketable securities, offset by cash received related to the sale or maturity of marketable securities. Cash used in investing activities was $235.1 million during the nine months ended June 28, 2019, as compared with $809.2 million during the nine months ended June 29, 2018. Purchases of marketable securities were $243.7 million and sales and maturities of marketable securities were $334.4 million during the nine months ended June 28, 2019. The cash used for capital expenditures was $314.0 million in the nine months ended June 28, 2019, primarily related to the purchase of manufacturing equipment to support the expansion of our assembly and test operations, filter production operations, and wafer fabrication facilities. 







•$511.3 million related to our repurchase of 6.9 million shares of our common stock pursuant to the stock repurchase programs approved by our Board of Directors on January 30, 2019, and January 31, 2018. 



•$198.8 million related to the payment of cash dividends on our common stock.





Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaled $970.1 million as of June 28, 2019, representing a decrease of $80.1 million from September 28, 2018. The decrease resulted from $511.3 million used to repurchase 6.9 million shares of stock, $198.8 million in cash dividend payments, and $314.0 million in capital expenditures, which was partially offset by $950.4 million in cash generated from operations. Based on our historical results of operations, we expect that our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities on hand and the cash we expect to generate from operations will be sufficient to fund our research and development, capital expenditures, potential acquisitions, working capital, quarterly cash dividend payments (if such dividends are declared by the Board of Directors), outstanding commitments and other liquidity requirements associated with existing operations for at least the next 12 months. However, we cannot be certain that our cash on hand and cash generated from operations will be available in the future to fund all of our capital 



and operating requirements. In addition, any future strategic investments and acquisitions may require additional cash and capital resources. If we are unable to obtain sufficient cash or capital to meet our needs on a timely basis and on favorable terms, our business and operations could be materially and adversely affected.





CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS



Our contractual obligations disclosure in the 2018 10-K has not materially changed since we filed that report.



OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS



We have no material off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in SEC Regulation S-K Item 303(a)(4)(ii). 



Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds. 













Item 6. Exhibits. 





SIGNATURES 



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. 





