Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.



We are subject to overall financial market risks, such as changes in market liquidity, credit quality, investment risk, interest rate risk, and foreign exchange rate risk as described below.



Investment and Interest Rate Risk



Our exposure to interest rate and general market risks relates principally to our investment portfolio, which consists of cash and cash equivalents (time deposits, certificates of deposit and money market funds) that total approximately $1,681.5 million as of December 29, 2017.



The main objectives of our investment activities are liquidity and preservation of capital. Our cash equivalent investments have short-term maturity periods that dampen the impact of market or interest rate risk. Credit risk associated with our investments is not material because our money market and deposits are diversified across several financial institutions with high credit ratings, which reduces the amount of credit exposure to any one counterparty. 



Based on our results of operations for the three months ended December 29, 2017, a hypothetical reduction in the interest rates on our cash and cash equivalents to zero would result in an immaterial reduction of interest income with a de minimis impact on income before taxes.



Given the low interest rate environment, the objectives of our investment activities, and the relatively low interest income generated from our cash and cash equivalents and other investments, we do not believe that investment or interest rate risks pose material exposures to our current business or results of operations. 



Foreign Exchange Rate Risk



Substantially all sales to customers and arrangements with third-party manufacturers provide for pricing and payment in United States dollars, thereby reducing the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations on our results. A percentage of our international operational expenses are denominated in foreign currencies and exchange rate volatility could positively or negatively impact those operating costs. Increases in the value of the United States dollar relative to other currencies could make our products more expensive, which could negatively impact our ability to compete. Conversely, decreases in the value of the United States dollar relative to other currencies could result in our suppliers raising their prices to continue doing business with us. Given the relatively small number of customers and arrangements with third-party manufacturers denominated in foreign currencies, we do not believe that foreign exchange volatility has a material impact on our current business or results of operations. However, 



fluctuations in currency exchange rates could have a greater effect on our business or results of operations in the future to the extent our expenses increasingly become denominated in foreign currencies. 



We may enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts with financial institutions to protect against foreign exchange risks associated with certain existing assets and liabilities, certain firmly committed transactions, forecasted future cash flows and net investments in foreign subsidiaries. However, we may choose not to hedge certain foreign exchange exposures for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to, accounting considerations and the prohibitive economic cost of hedging particular exposures. 



Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements



In August 2015, the FASB deferred the effective date of ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers and will supersede most current revenue recognition guidance. We will adopt this guidance during the first quarter of fiscal year 2019. The new guidance is required to be applied retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented or retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initially applying it recognized at the date of initial application. We have established a cross-functional team to assess the potential impact of the new revenue standard. The assessment process consists of reviewing its current accounting policies and practices to identify potential differences that would result from applying the requirements of the new standard to our revenue contracts and identifying appropriate changes to the business processes, systems and controls to support revenue recognition and disclosure requirements under the new standard. We are currently evaluating the potential impact on our business processes, systems, controls and our consolidated financial statements of the new revenue standard and do not anticipate significant changes to our statement of operations. Our assessment will be completed during fiscal year 2018 at which time the method of adoption will be selected.



In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842) (“ASU 2016-02”), which requires lessees to reflect most leases on their balance sheet as assets and obligations. The effective date for the standard is for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, with early adoption permitted. The standard is to be applied under the modified retrospective method, with elective reliefs, which requires application of the new guidance for all periods presented. We are currently evaluating the effect that ASU 2016-02 will have on the consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.



In May 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-09, Compensation-Stock Compensation (Topic 718), Scope of Modification Accounting. The ASU provides guidance about which changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award require an entity to apply modification accounting in Topic 718. The effective date for the standard is for interim periods in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, with early adoption permitted, including adoption in any interim period for which financial statements have not yet been issued. We are currently evaluating the potential impact of this standard on the consolidated financial statements.



In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230), (“ASU 2016-15”). This ASU provides guidance on the presentation and classification of specific cash flow items to improve consistency within the statement of cash flows. The effective date for the standard is for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, with early adoption permitted. We are currently evaluating the effect that ASU 2016-15 will have on the consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. 



In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-16, Income taxes (Topic 740), Intra-entity transfers of an asset other than inventory (“ASU 2016-16”). This ASU provides guidance that changes the accounting for income tax effects of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory. Under the new guidance, the selling (transferring) entity is required to recognize a current tax expense or benefit upon transfer of the asset. Similarly, the purchasing (receiving) entity is required to recognize a deferred tax asset or deferred tax liability, as well as the related deferred tax benefit or expense, upon receipt of the asset. The effective date for the standard is for fiscal years beginning after December, 15, 2017, on a modified retrospective basis, and early adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating the effect ASU 2016-16 will have on the consolidated financial statements.





goodwill impairment tests performed on testing dates after January 1, 2017. We will adopt this amendment during our second fiscal quarter of 2018. 



In May 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-09, Compensation-Stock Compensation (Topic 718), Scope of Modification Accounting. The ASU provides guidance about which changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award require an entity to apply modification accounting in Topic 718. The effective date for the standard is for interim periods in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, with early adoption permitted, including adoption in any interim period for which financial statements have not yet been issued. We are currently evaluating the potential impact of this standard on the consolidated financial statements.



