We remain focused on executing our strategy for growth while streamlining the organization and emphasizing continuous improvement in quality, delivery, cost and innovation as we drive the One Allied approach and expand our value proposition for our customers. Solid strides continue to be made with our multi-product, fully integrated solutions that are leading to increased business. Also, we continue to build a pipeline of exciting market-based application opportunities. Sales cycles 
are long and the time from being selected for the solution development to full rate production can be longer, yet we believe we are building a scalable foundation which can deliver strong returns on those investments. 
Sales to U.S. customers were 53% of total sales for the quarter compared with 54% for the same period last year, with the balance of sales to customers primarily in Europe, Canada and Asia. The overall increase in revenue was due to an 18% volume increase and a 7% favorable currency impact. 
EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA are provided for information purposes only and are not measures of financial performance under GAAP. 
The Company believes EBITDA is often a useful measure of a Company’s operating performance and is a significant basis used by the Company’s management to measure the operating performance of the Company’s business because EBITDA excludes charges for depreciation, amortization and interest expense that have resulted from our debt financings, as well as our provision for income tax expense. EBITDA is frequently used as one of the bases for comparing businesses in the Company’s industry. 
The Company also believes that Adjusted EBITDA provides helpful information about the operating performance of its business. Adjusted EBITDA excludes stock compensation expense, as well as certain income or expenses which are not indicative of the ongoing performance of the Company. EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA do not represent and should not be considered as an alternative to net income, operating income, net cash provided by operating activities or any other measure for determining operating performance or liquidity that is calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. 
The decrease in operating cash flows during the first quarter of 2018 compared to 2017 is due to increased working capital needs, related to both the acquisition of the Mavel OE Steering business, and organic growth. 
The significant cash used in investing activities in 2018 reflects the acquisition the Mavel OE Steering business during the quarter. Also during the first quarter of 2018, purchases of property and equipment were $2,222 compared to $1,288 for the first quarter of 2017. Capital expenditures are expected to increase throughout 2018 to support our new contract wins along with our continued IT infrastructure enhancements. 
The change in cash used in financing activities reflects the 2018 use of the revolver to partially finance the acquisition of the Mavel OE Steering business. Also, during the first quarter of 2018, we made payments of $4,350 for our Revolving Facility, including $1,850 to completely pay off our foreign revolver. At March 31, 2018, we had $63,462 of obligations under the Revolving Facility. 
The Credit Agreement contains certain financial covenants related to minimum interest coverage and total leverage ratio at the end of each quarter. The Credit Agreement also includes other covenants and restrictions, including limits on the amount 
of additional indebtedness, and restrictions on the ability to merge, consolidate or sell all or substantially all of our assets. We were in compliance with all covenants at March 31, 2018. 
There were no additional borrowings for the China Facility balance for the first quarter of 2018 from December 31, 2017. The balance at March 31, 2018 was $478 (RMB 13,000), and the available borrowings were approximately $1,114 (RMB 7,000). 
The Company declared dividends of $0.025 per share during the quarter ended March 31, 2018. The Company’s working capital, capital expenditure and dividend requirements are expected to be funded from cash provided by operations and amounts available under the Credit Agreement. 
