Overview 
Financial overview 
We remain focused on executing our strategy for growth while streamlining the organization and emphasizing continuous improvement in quality, delivery, cost and innovation as we drive the One Allied approach and expand our value proposition for our customers. Solid strides continue to be made with our multi-product, fully integrated solutions that are leading to increased business. Also, we continue to build a pipeline of exciting market-based application opportunities. Sales cycles 
are long and the time from being selected for the solution development to full rate production can be longer, yet we believe we continue to build a scalable foundation which can deliver strong returns on those investments. 
Quarter ended March 31, 2019 compared to quarter ended March 31, 2018 
Sales to U.S. customers were 54% of total sales for the first quarter 2019 compared with 53% for the same period last year, with the balance of sales to customers primarily in Europe, Canada and Asia. The overall increase in revenue was due to an 27% volume increase offset by a 4% unfavorable currency impact. 
Revenue excluding foreign currency exchange impacts, EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA are provided for information purposes only and are not measures of financial performance under GAAP. 
The Company believes that revenue excluding foreign currency exchange impacts is a useful measure in analyzing organic sales results. The Company excludes the effect of currency translation from revenue for this measure because currency translation is not under management’s control, is subject to volatility and can obscure underlying business trends. The portion of revenue attributable to currency translation is calculated as the difference between the current period revenue and the current period revenue after applying foreign exchange rates from the prior period. 
The Company believes EBITDA is often a useful measure of a Company’s operating performance and is a significant basis used by the Company’s management to measure the operating performance of the Company’s business because EBITDA excludes charges for depreciation, amortization and interest expense that have resulted from our debt financings, as well as our provision for income tax expense. EBITDA is frequently used as one of the bases for comparing businesses in the Company’s industry. 
The Company’s liquidity position as measured by cash and cash equivalents decreased by $1,511 to a balance of $10,184 at March 31, 2019 from December 31, 2018. 
During the first quarter of 2019, the decrease in cash provided by operating activities is primarily due to an increase in working capital needs to support the sequential quarter, primarily for trade receivables. 
The significant cash used in investing activities in the first quarter 2018 reflects the acquisition the Maval OE Steering business. Purchases of property and equipment were $2,505 during the first quarter 2019 compared to $2,222 for the first quarter 2018. Capital expenditures are expected to increase for the remainder of 2019 to support our continued growth. The Company expects to invest between $15 million and $18 million in capital expenditures during 2019. 
During 2019, the Company utilized revolver borrowings to fund working capital to support the growth seen from fourth quarter 2018 along with the payment of annual incentive compensation amounts. The cash used in financing activities in first quarter 2018 reflects the use of the revolver to partially finance the acquisition of the Maval OE Steering business. At March 31, 2019, we had $129,502 of obligations under the Revolving Facility excluding the unamortized debt issue costs. 
The Credit Agreement contains certain financial covenants related to minimum interest coverage and total leverage ratio at the end of each quarter. The Credit Agreement also includes other covenants and restrictions, including limits on the amount of additional indebtedness, and restrictions on the ability to merge, consolidate or sell all or substantially all our assets. We were in compliance with all covenants at March 31, 2019. 
As of March 31, 2019, the amount available to borrow under the Credit Agreement was approximately $45,498. The Credit Agreement matures in October 2021. 
There were no borrowings for the China Facility balance during the quarter ended March 31, 2019. 
The Company declared dividends of $0.030 per share during the first quarter 2019 and $0.025 per share during the first quarter of 2018. The Company’s working capital, capital expenditure and dividend requirements are expected to be funded from cash provided by operations and amounts available under the Credit Agreement. 
