item1.txt
Activision primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including full-game and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Activision products.
Blizzard primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including subscriptions, full-game, and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Blizzard products.
For the three months ended March 31, 2018, the beginning and ending cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash reported within our condensed consolidated statement of cash flows include restricted cash of $7 million and $6 million, respectively.
For the three months ended March 31, 2017, our beginning and ending cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash reported within our condensed consolidated statement of cash flows include restricted cash of $17 million and $13 million, respectively.
During the three months ended March 31, 2018, there were no significant changes to our accounting policies, except for our adoption of a new revenue accounting standard as discussed below.
In May 2014, the FASB issued new accounting guidance related to revenue recognition.
The new standard replaces all current U.S. GAAP guidance on this topic and eliminates all industry-specific guidance, providing a unified model to determine when and how revenue is recognized.
On January 1, 2018, we adopted the new accounting standard and related amendments (the “new revenue accounting standard”).
In instances where the timing of revenue recognition differs from the timing of invoicing, we do not adjust the promised amount of consideration for the effects of a significant financing component when we expect, at contract inception, that the period between our transfer of a promised product or service to our customer and payment for that product or service will be one year or less.
We recognize revenues from the sale of our products after both (1) control of the products have been transferred to our customers and (2) underlying performance obligations have been satisfied.
Similar to our software products with online functionality, these arrangements may include other products and services, which often results in the recognition of additional performance obligations.
Revenues related to online hosted software arrangements are generally recognized ratably over the estimated service period.
Revenues associated with the sales of subscriptions via initial software purchases and standalone subscriptions sales are deferred until the subscription service is activated by the consumer and are then recognized ratably over the subscription period as the performance obligations are satisfied.
Durable virtual goods represent goods that are accessible to the player over an extended period of time; accordingly, we recognize revenues from the sale of durable virtual goods ratably over the period of time the goods are available to the player and our performance obligation is satisfied, which is generally the estimated service period.
This requirement was eliminated under the new revenue accounting standard.
Accordingly, we are required to recognize as revenue a portion of the sales price upon delivery of this software, as compared to recognizing the entire sales price ratably over an estimated service period as previously required.
This difference in accounting primarily impacted revenues from our Call of Duty franchise, where approximately 20% of the sales price is now recognized as revenue upon delivery of the games to our customers.
Many of our other franchises, such as Destiny, Overwatch, World of Warcraft, and Candy Crush, are online hosted arrangements, and the accounting for our sales of these games under the new standard is relatively unchanged; and 
While the impacts of the new revenue accounting standard may differ on a contract-by-contract basis (as the actual revenue recognition treatment required under the standard will depend on contract-specific terms), the new revenue accounting standard generally results in earlier revenue recognition for these arrangements.
Adoption of the new revenue accounting standard had no impact to net cash from or used in operating, investing, or financing activities in our condensed consolidated statement of cash flows.
The new standard, among other things, generally requires companies to measure investments in other entities, except those accounted for under the equity method, at fair value and to recognize any changes in fair value in net income.
The new standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, and the guidance should be applied by means of a cumulative-effect adjustment to the balance sheet as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption.
The application of this new standard did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated statements of cash flows for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017.
In our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2018, there will be a significant impact to the consolidated statements of cash flows for 2016, as this period includes, as an investing activity, the $3.6 billion movement in restricted cash resulting from the transfer of cash into escrow at December 31, 2015 to facilitate the acquisition of King, and the subsequent release of that cash in 2016 to complete the acquisition.
Under this new standard, the restricted cash balance will be included in the beginning and ending total cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash balances and, hence, will not be included as an investing activity in the statement of cash flows.
The new guidance expands and refines hedge accounting for both financial and non-financial risk components, aligns the recognition and presentation of the effects of hedging instruments and hedged items in the financial statements, and includes certain targeted improvements to ease the application of current guidance related to the assessment of a hedge’s effectiveness.
The new standard must be adopted using a modified retrospective transition and will require application of the new guidance at the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented, with certain transition practical expedients available to provide relief in adopting the new standard.
We are evaluating the impact of this new accounting guidance on our financial statements, but expect it to have a material impact to our consolidated balance sheet as a result of establishing lease liabilities and right-of-use assets for our operating leases.
Additionally, approximately $5 million of net realized but unrecognized losses are recorded within “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)” at March 31, 2018 for Cash Flow Hedges that had settled but were deferred and will be amortized into earnings, along with the associated hedged revenues.
The opening balance and ending balance of deferred revenues as of January 1, 2018 and March 31, 2018 was $1.8 billion and $1.2 billion, respectively, including our current and non-current balances.
For the three months ended March 31, 2018, the additions to our deferred revenue balance were primarily due to cash payments received or due in advance of satisfying our performance obligations, while the reductions to our deferred revenue balance were primarily due to the recognition of revenues upon fulfillment of our performance obligations, both of which were in the ordinary course of business.
During the three months ended March 31, 2018, $1.1 billion of revenues were recognized that were included in the deferred revenue balance at the beginning of the period.
The Company’s net revenues in the U.S. were 47% of consolidated net revenues for both the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017.
The Company’s net revenues in the U.K. were 11% and 10% of consolidated net revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
No other country’s net revenues exceeded 10% of consolidated net revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2018 or 2017.
Approximately 6 million and 9 million shares are not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, as their respective performance measures had not yet been met.
Therefore, approximately 2 million and 5 million options to acquire shares of common stock were not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per common share for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017, respectively, as the effect of their inclusion would be anti-dilutive.


item2.txt
The Company’s financial results for 2018 are presented in accordance with a new revenue accounting standard that was adopted in the first quarter of 2018.
· consolidated net revenues increased 14% to $1.97 billion, while consolidated operating income increased 21% to $595 million, as compared to consolidated net revenues of $1.73 billion and consolidated operating income of $493 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017; 
· revenues from digital online channels were $1.46 billion, or 74% of consolidated net revenues, as compared to $1.39 billion, or 80% of consolidated net revenues, for the three months ended March 31, 2017; 
Net revenues and operating income for the three months ended March 31, 2018, include a net effect of $581 million and $373 million, respectively, from the recognition of deferred net revenues and related cost of revenues.
Average MAUs decreased by 11 million, or 3%, for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2017.
Average MAUs decreased by 57 million, or 13%, for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017.
The increase in net deferred revenues recognized for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017, was primarily due to higher net deferred revenues recognized for Activision of $193 million, primarily due to higher net deferred revenues recognized from the Destiny franchise, driven by the release of Destiny 2 in September 2017, with no comparable release in 2016.
The increase in King’s net revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017, was primarily due to higher revenues from the Candy Crush franchise’s increased monetization, primarily through in-game events and features.
The increase in Activision’s operating income for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017, was primarily due to the higher revenues, as discussed above, and lower product costs from lower sales of our previously released titles for the Skylanders and Guitar Hero franchises, which typically had higher product costs per unit due to the included physical items (i.e. toys and guitars).
The increase in King’s operating income for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017, was primarily due to the higher revenues, as discussed above.
· higher revenues from the Candy Crush franchise due to increased monetization, primarily through in-game events and features.
· higher revenues from the Candy Crush franchise due to increased monetization, primarily through in-game events and features.
The decrease in net revenues in the Asia Pacific region for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017, was primarily due to lower revenues recognized from Overwatch, which was released in May 2016.
The decrease was partially offset by higher revenues recognized from the Destiny franchise, driven by the release of Destiny 2 in September 2017, with no comparable release in 2016.
The increase in net revenues from mobile and ancillary for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017, was primarily due to higher revenues from the Candy Crush franchise’s increased monetization, primarily through in-game events and features.
The increase in product costs for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017, was primarily due to higher product costs of $18 million driven by the increase in product sales associated with the Call of Duty and Destiny franchises, partially offset by lower product costs from lower sales of our previously-released titles for the Skylanders and Guitar Hero franchises, which typically had higher product costs per unit due to the included physical items (i.e. toys and guitars).
Sales and marketing expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2018, were comparable to the three months ended March 31, 2017, primarily due to a $39 million increase in marketing spending and personnel costs, primarily associated with the Candy Crush franchise and the Overwatch League, which started its inaugural regular season in January 2018, partially offset by marketing for the Bubble Witch franchise, as Bubble Witch 3 Saga was released during the first quarter of 2017, with no comparable release in 2018.
The increase in general and administrative expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017, was primarily due to a $33 million increase in personnel costs, including stock-based compensation expense, facilities costs, and professional fees, to support the growth of our business and adjacent areas of opportunity.
The increase was partially offset by the inclusion of non-cash accounting charge of $16 million in 2017 to reclassify certain losses included in our cumulative translation adjustments into earnings due to the substantial liquidation of certain of our foreign entities, for which there was no comparable activity in 2018.
The decrease in interest and other expense (income), net, for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017, was primarily due to higher interest income of $11 million from our cash and cash equivalents as compared to the prior period.
In the near term, we expect our business and financial condition to remain strong and to continue to generate significant operating cash flows, which, we believe, in combination with our existing balance of cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments of $5.3 billion, our access to capital, and the availability of our $250 million revolving credit facility, will be sufficient to finance our operational and financing requirements for the next 12 months.
Net cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2018, was $529 million, as compared to $411 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017.
Net cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2018, was $8 million, as compared to net cash used in financing activities of $404 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017.
For the three months ended March 31, 2017, we had net debt repayments of $500 million, with no comparable repayment activity for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
This impact was partially offset by lower proceeds from stock option exercises and higher tax payments made for net share settlements on restricted stock units of $47 million and $39 million, respectively, for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to $109 million and $13 million, respectively, for the three months ended March 31, 2017.
As discussed in Note 2 of the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, in May 2014, the FASB issued new accounting guidance related to revenue recognition and on January 1, 2018, we adopted the new accounting standard and related amendments (the “new revenue accounting standard”), utilizing the modified retrospective method.
Many of our other franchises, such as Destiny, Overwatch, World of Warcraft, and Candy Crush, are online hosted arrangements, and the accounting for our sales of these games under the new standard is relatively unchanged; and 
The application of this new standard did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated statements of cash flows for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017.
In our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2018, there will be a significant impact to the consolidated statements of cash flows for 2016, as this period includes, as an investing activity, the $3.6 billion movement in restricted cash resulting from the transfer of cash into escrow at December 31, 2015 to facilitate the acquisition of King, and the subsequent release of that cash in 2016 to complete the acquisition.


item3.txt
We transact business in many different foreign currencies and may be exposed to financial market risk resulting from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.
To the extent the U.S. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency-denominated transactions will result in reduced revenues, operating expenses, net income, and cash flows from our international operations.
To mitigate our foreign currency risk resulting from our foreign currency-denominated monetary assets, liabilities, and earnings and our foreign currency risk related to functional currency-equivalent cash flows resulting from our intercompany transactions, we periodically enter into currency derivative contracts, principally forward contracts.


part2.txt
The exhibits listed on the accompanying Exhibit Index are hereby incorporated by reference into this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.


