fls.txt
All forward-looking statements included in this report are made as of the date hereof and are based on information available to us as of such date.


item1.txt
The fiscal year for ClearOne is the twelve months ending on December 31.
The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements contain all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring accruals, necessary for a fair presentation of our financial position as of June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the results of operations for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, and the cash flows for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018.
These interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 filed with the SEC.
The significant accounting policies were described in Note 1 to the audited consolidated financial statements included in the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments.
Our lease terms may include options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise that option.
Lease expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Under the available practical expedient, we account for the lease and non-lease components as a single lease component.
The Company has classified its marketable securities as available-for-sale securities.


item2.txt
This report on Form 10-Q includes “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).
We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
All subsequent forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements.
ClearOne is a global Company that designs, develops and sells conferencing, collaboration, and AV networking solutions for voice and visual communications.
We have achieved this through strategic technological acquisitions as well as by internal product development.
We also introduced COLLABORATE® Space to our growing family of collaboration solutions.
Users can meet immediately or schedule a meeting and access a full suite of collaboration features, including file sharing, whiteboarding, annotation, chat, and meeting minutes.
We also continued our programs to cut costs and to speed up product development that we believe will enable us to get back to a growth path.
We are inappropriately being forced to compete against our own patented technology.
Our gross profit margin decreased to 44% during the first six months of 2019 from 52% during the same six months in 2018.
The audio-visual products market is characterized by intense competition and rapidly evolving technology.
Our competitors vary within each product category.
Our installed professional audio conferencing products, which is our flagship product category, continue to be ahead of the competition despite the reduction in revenues.
Our strength in this space is largely due to our fully integrated suite of products consisting of DSP mixers, wide range of professional microphone products and video collaboration products.
Revenue from our video products are critical to our long-term growth.


item4.txt
The remediation and ultimate resolution of the material weakness will be reviewed with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.


part2.txt
Item 1.
9,813,806 (the “’806 Patent”).
On July 18, 2019, Shure, Inc. filed a lawsuit against the Company in the U.S. Court for the District of Delaware.


