fls.txt
All forward-looking statements included in this report are made as of the date hereof and are based on information available tob us as of such date.


item1.txt
The fiscal year for ClearOne is the twelve months ending on December 31.
All significant inter-company accounts and transactions have been eliminated.
The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements contain all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring accruals, necessary for a fair presentation of our financial position as of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, and the cash flows for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018.
These interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 filed with the SEC.
The significant accounting policies were described in Note 1 to the audited consolidated financial statements included in the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments.
Our lease terms may include options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise that option.
Lease expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Under the available practical expedient, we account for the lease and non-lease components as a single lease component.
The Company has classified its marketable securities as available-for-sale securities.


item2.txt
We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
All subsequent forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements.
We derive a major portion of our revenue from audio conferencing products and microphones by promoting our products in the professional audio-visual channel.
We have achieved this through strategic technological acquisitions as well as by internal product development.
We also introduced COLLABORATE® Space to our growing family of collaboration solutions.
Designed as a persistent, user-friendly collaboration suite, COLLABORATE Space contains many powerful UCC capabilities, as well as the seamless ability to make calls outside the network.
Overall revenue declined in the first quarter of 2019 when compared to the first quarter of 2018, with declines seen in all product categories except video.
We believe the on-going infringement of ClearOne’s patents is the major cause of our revenue decline in the audio conferencing and microphones categories.
Our gross profit margin decreased to 43% during the first quarter of 2019 from 56% for the first quarter of 2018.
Our competitors vary within each product category.
Our installed professional audio conferencing products, which is our flagship product category, continue to be ahead of the competition despite the reduction in revenues.
Revenue from our video products are critical to our long-term growth.
We face intense competition in this market from well-established market leaders as well as emerging players rich with marketing funds.
We believe we are also well positioned to capitalize on the continuing migration away from the traditional hardware-based video conferencing systems to software-based video conferencing applications.
However, we are exposed to foreign exchange risk if the U.S. dollar is strong against other currencies as it will make U.S. Dollar denominated prices of our products less competitive.


item4.txt
The remediation and ultimate resolution of the material weakness will be reviewed with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.
Item 4.


part2.txt
Item 1.


