fls.txt
All forward-looking statements included in this report are made as of the date hereof and are based on information available to us as of such date.


item1.txt
These interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 filed with the SEC.
The significant accounting policies were described in Note 1 to the audited consolidated financial statements included in the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
At each quarter-end, we evaluated the inventory in the distribution channel through information provided by our distributors.
Accordingly, each quarter-end deferral of revenue and associated cost of goods sold were calculated and recorded based upon the actual channel inventory reported at quarter-end.
Sales agreements with customers are renewable periodically and contain terms and conditions with respect to payment, delivery, warranty and supply, but typically do not require mandatory purchase commitments.
The Company evaluates certain factors including the customer’s ability to pay (or credit risk).
In determining the transaction price, the Company evaluates whether the price is subject to refund or adjustment to determine the net consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled.
Although payment terms vary, most distributor agreements require payment within 45 days of invoicing.
The Company recognizes revenue when it satisfies a performance obligation.
The Company recognizes revenue from sales agreements upon transferring control of a product to the customer.
Frequently, the Company receives orders with multiple delivery dates that may extend across reporting periods.
Since each delivery constitutes a performance obligation, the Company allocates the transaction price of the contract to each performance obligation based on the stand-alone selling price of the products.
As scheduled delivery dates are within one year, revenue allocated to future shipments of partially completed contracts are not disclosed.


item2.txt
This report on Form 10-Q includes “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).
All forward-looking statements included in this report are made as of the date hereof and are based on information available to us as of such date.
We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
We derive most of our revenue from professional audio conferencing products by promoting our products in the professional audio-visual channel.
We have achieved this through strategic technological acquisitions as well as by internal product development.
During the six months ended June 30, 2018 seven more patents related to video synchronization, speech technology, integrated microphone array and ceiling or wall tile, echo cancellation with beamforming microphone array, audio distribution over local area networks, and USB to Bluetooth audio bridging were issued to us.
Overall revenue declined in the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 when compared to the three months and six months ended June 30, 2017, with declines seen in all product categories.
We operate in a very dynamic and highly competitive industry which is dominated on the one hand by a few players with respect to certain products like traditional video conferencing appliances while on the other influenced heavily by a fragmented reseller market consisting of numerous regional and local players.
The industry is also characterized by the influx of venture capitalist funded start-ups and private companies keen to win market share even at the expense of mounting financial losses.
The audio-visual products market is characterized by intense competition and rapidly evolving technology.
We face intense competition in this market from well-established market leaders as well as emerging players rich with marketing funds.
We expect our strategy of combining Spontania, our cloud-based video conferencing product, Collaborate, our appliance-based media collaboration product and our high-end audio conferencing technology to distinguish us from our competitors' product offerings.
Our revenue decreased by $3.3 million, or 32%, to $7.0 million in 2018-Q2 compared to $10.3 million in 2017-Q2.


item4.txt
The remediation and ultimate resolution of the material weakness will be reviewed with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.
Item 4.


part2.txt
Item 1.


