fls.txt
We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.


item1.txt
1. Business Description, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies The performance and simplicity of our advanced, comprehensive solutions offer unprecedented levels of functionality, reliability and scalability.
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of ClearOne and its subsidiaries.
All significant inter-company accounts and transactions have been eliminated.
The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements contain all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring accruals, necessary for a fair presentation of our financial position as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the results of operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, and the cash flows for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017.
The results of operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 are not necessarily indicative of the results for a full-year period.
At each quarter-end, we evaluated the inventory in the distribution channel through information provided by our distributors.
Accordingly, each quarter-end deferral of revenue and associated cost of goods sold were calculated and recorded based upon the actual channel inventory reported at quarter-end.
Further, with respect to distributors and other channel partners not reporting the channel inventory, the revenue and associated cost of goods sold were deferred until we received payment for the product sales made to such distributors or channel partners.
During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, revenue decreased by $784 and $1,365, respectively due to the impact of the adoption of the New Revenue Standard.
Sales agreements with customers are renewable periodically and contain terms and conditions with respect to payment, delivery, warranty and supply, but typically do not require mandatory purchase commitments.
The Company considers the customer purchase orders, governed by sales agreements or the Company’s standard terms and conditions, to be the contract with the customer.
Although payment terms vary, most distributor agreements require payment within 45 days of invoicing.
Revenue recognized during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 for equipment sales was $6,524 and $20,396, respectively and for software, licenses, etc.


item2.txt
This report on Form 10-Q includes “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).
Item 1A "Risk Factors" in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2018.
The performance and simplicity of our advanced, comprehensive solutions offer unprecedented levels of functionality, reliability and scalability.
We derive most of our revenue from professional audio conferencing products by promoting our products in the professional audio-visual channel.
We have achieved this through strategic technological acquisitions as well as by internal product development.
We also launched many new products including Collaborate Space, Converge Amplifier and wireless microphone systems in 537-563 MHz range at our industry’s largest trade show in North America.
The proportion of overhead costs absorbed into inventory has declined due to a sharp decline in our inventory purchasing activity causing increased amounts of overhead costs to be expensed.
The audio-visual products market is characterized by intense competition and rapidly evolving technology.
Our competitors vary within each product category.
The adoption of Beamforming Microphone Array 2, along with our Converge Pro 2, our new platform for professional audio conferencing, remains challenged in large part because of our competitors’ product offering that directly infringes our strategic patents.
The patent infringement also has had a material adverse effect on revenue from ClearOne’s other products like wireless microphones, ceiling microphones and video products.
Our revenues in the near term may also be adversely affected by the resignation of a large US distributor in June 2018.


item4.txt
The remediation and ultimate resolution of the material weakness will be reviewed with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Item 1A.


