fls.txt
All statements and assumptions contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q that do not relate to historical facts constitute "forward-looking statements."


item1.txt
For the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, the aggregate impact of adjustments in contract estimates increased our revenue by $3.5 million and $4.3 million, respectively.
For the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, the aggregate impact of adjustments in contract estimates increased our revenue by $5.6 million and $5.8 million, respectively.
For the three months ended June 30, 2019, the amount of revenue that was included in the opening contract liabilities balance was $4.5 million.
For the six months ended June 30, 2019, the amount of revenue that was included in the opening contract liabilities balance was $22.5 million.
The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued ASC 842, Leases, to increase transparency and comparability among organizations by requiring the recognition of right of use (ROU) assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet.
We are also required to recognize and measure leases existing at, or entered into after, the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented using a modified retrospective approach, with certain practical expedients available.
Our ROU asset is recognized as the lease liability, any initial indirect costs and any prepaid lease payments, less any lease incentives.
Our lease liabilities are recognized based on the present value of the future minimum lease payments over the lease term at commencement date.
Our variable lease payments are excluded in measuring ROU assets and lease liabilities because they do not depend on an index or a rate or are not in substance fixed payments.
In our condensed consolidated statement of income, we recognize a single operating lease expense calculated on a straight-line basis over the remaining lease term.
The depreciation of the ROU asset increases each year as a result of the declining lease liability balance.
Variable lease payments are not recognized in the measurement of the lease liability - they are recognized in the period in which the related obligation has been incurred.
In each period, the lease liability will be increased to reflect the interest that is accrued on the related lease liability by using the appropriate discount rate, offset by a decrease in the lease liability resulting from the periodic lease payments.
Our transportation vehicles and equipment leases include a residual value guarantee, which is a guarantee made to the lessor that the value of the underlying asset returned to the lessor at the end of the lease will be at least a specific amount.
We sublease some of our real estate lease space, resulting in sublease income of $6 thousand and $29 thousand as of the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively.
We recognize payments related to short-term leases (less than one year) as profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the lease term and variable lease payments in the period in which the obligation for those payments were incurred.


item2.txt
This change has caused a net increase in the reported cost of services and a net decrease in reported general and administrative expenses in 2019 as compared to 2018; however, total operating costs were not affected by this change.
The primary driver of our increase in revenues relates to revenue from new contract awards, growth on certain existing contracts and our recent acquisition, which were offset by contracts and tasks that ended and reduced scope of work on some contracts.
As a percentage of revenue, direct labor costs were 48% for both the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018.
As a percentage of revenues, other direct costs, which include subcontractors and third party equipment and materials used in the performance of our contracts, were 38% for the three months ended June 30, 2019, compared to 37% for the same period in 2018.
The increase in interest expense was due to increased borrowings on our revolving line of credit to fund the acquisition of Kforce Government Solutions.
Our effective income tax rates were 26% and 28% for the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The primary driver of the decrease in our effective tax rate was due to an increased benefit from our deferred compensation plan and stock option exercises as well as increased tax expense for 2018 related to a discrete item recognized in the second quarter of 2018.
The primary driver of our increase in revenues relates to revenue from new contract awards and growth on certain existing contracts and our recent acquisition, which were offset by contracts and tasks that ended and reduced scope of work on some contracts.
As a percentage of revenue, direct labor costs were 48% for both the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018.
As a percentage of revenues, other direct costs, which include subcontractors and third party equipment and materials used in the performance of our contracts, were 38% for the six months ended June 30, 2019, compared to 37% for the same period in 2018.
The increase in interest expense was due to increased borrowing on our revolving line of credit to fund the acquisition of Kforce Government Solutions (KGS).


item3.txt
Our exposure to market risk relates to changes in interest rates for borrowing under our revolving credit facility.


item4.txt
Disclosure controls and procedures are also designed to provide reasonable assurance that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our principal executive officer and our principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.


part2.txt



