fls.txt



item1.txt
We recognized the cumulative effect of adopting ASC 606 as an increase to the 2018 opening balance of retained earnings in the amount of $0.8 million, with the impact primarily related to fixed-price contracts.
As part of this process, we review information including, but not limited to, any outstanding key contract matters, progress towards completion and the related program schedule, identified risks and opportunities and the related changes in estimates of revenue and costs.
For the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, the aggregate impact of adjustments in contract estimates increased our revenue by $5.9 million and $4.5 million, respectively.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, the aggregate impact of adjustments in contract estimates increased our revenue by $9.0 million and $8.8 million, respectively.
For the three months ended and nine months ended September 30, 2019, the amount of revenue that was included in the opening contract liabilities balance were $0.9 million and $23.4 million, respectively.
Our lease liabilities are recognized based on the present value of the future minimum lease payments over the lease term at commencement date.
Our lease payments consist of amounts relating to the use of the underlying asset during the lease term, specifically fixed payments, payment to be made in optional periods when we are reasonably certain to exercise an option to extend the lease or not to exercise an option to terminate the lease and the amounts probable of being owned by us under residual guarantees.
Our leases typically do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at the commencement date in determining the present value of future payments.
Our transportation vehicles and equipment leases include a residual value guarantee, which is a guarantee made to the lessor that the value of the underlying asset returned to the lessor at the end of the lease will be at least a specific amount.
We recognize payments related to short-term leases (less than one year) as expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term and variable lease payments in the period in which the obligation for those payments were incurred.
As such, our short-term lease expense for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 was $1.4 million and $4.2 million, respectively.
For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, we incurred variable lease costs of $0.5 million and $1.9 million, respectively.
The preliminary purchase price of $38.8 million, which includes an estimated working capital adjustment, was preliminarily allocated to the underlying assets and liabilities based on their estimated fair value at the date of acquisition.
As we are still in the process of reviewing the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed and in finalizing the closing working capital adjustment, the purchase price allocation for H2M is not complete as of September 30, 2019.
In preliminarily allocating the purchase price, we considered, among other factors, analysis of historical performance and estimates of future performance of H2M's contracts.


item2.txt
We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement made herein following the date of this Quarterly Report, whether as a result of new information, subsequent events or circumstances, changes in expectations or otherwise.
Through legislation passed in September 2018 and February 2019, all agencies of the U.S. federal government were funded through Government fiscal year (GFY) 2019.
The Act effectively ended the threat of sequestration by increasing spending for GFY 2020 and 2021 above caps previously in place under the Budget Control Act. The GFY 2020 and 2021 budgets include increases for areas supporting national security.
The following table sets forth certain items from our condensed consolidated statements of income and the relative percentage that certain items of expenses and earnings bear to revenue, as well as the period-to-period change from September 30, 2018 to September 30, 2019.
The primary driver of our increase in revenues relates to revenue from new contract awards, growth on certain existing contracts and our recent acquisitions, which were offset by contracts and tasks that ended and reduced scope of work or lower material purchases on some contracts.
As a percentage of revenue, direct labor costs were 46% for both the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018.
As a percentage of revenues, other direct costs, which include subcontractors and third party equipment and materials used in the performance of our contracts, were 38% for the three months ended September 30, 2019, compared to 39% for the same period in 2018.
The increase in interest expense was due to increased borrowings on our revolving line of credit to fund our acquisitions.
Our effective income tax rates were 26% and 24% for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The primary driver of the increase in our effective tax rate was the impact of discrete items recognized in the third quarter of 2018, which were more favorable than discrete items recognized in the third quarter of 2019.
The following table sets forth certain items from our condensed consolidated statements of income and the relative percentage that certain items of expenses and earnings bear to revenue, as well as the period-to-period change from September 30, 2018 to September 30, 2019.
The primary driver of our increase in revenues was revenue from new contract awards and growth on certain existing contracts and our recent acquisitions, which was offset by contracts and tasks that ended and reduced scope of work on some contracts.


item4.txt
As a result, our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance that such disclosure controls and procedures will meet their objectives.


part2.txt
Item 1A.Risk Factors


