Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk  
Financial instruments that potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk consist principally of cash and cash equivalents and trade receivables. Cash equivalents consist primarily of bank deposits. Deposits of cash held outside the United States totaled approximately $29.5 million and $24.3 million at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.  
For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, no customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenue.  
As discussed in Note 1, our wholly-owned Olapic Argentina S.A. subsidiary employs approximately 99 people whose functions mainly include development, sales support and administration. The Argentinian economy was recently determined to be highly inflationary. Argentina’s inflation rate reached this threshold with the quarterly period ended June 30, 2018. In accordance with this designation, we were required to apply the guidance in ASC Topic 830, Foreign Currency Matters, (Subtopic ASC 830-10-45-10), and account for a change in functional currency from the Argentinian peso to the U.S. dollar effective July 1, 2018. While we conduct our operation in Argentina Pesos, effective July 1, 2018, the functional currency was changed to the U.S. dollar. The operation is a service center supporting the company’s products and generates no revenue. Thus, the expenses primarily consist of compensation and related costs, totaling approximately $0.4 million to $0.5 million per month. The change in functional currency to U.S. dollars did not have a material impact on our financial position, operating results or cash flows.  
We incur foreign currency exchange gains and losses related to certain customers that are invoiced in U.S. dollars, but who have the option to make an equivalent payment in their own functional currencies at a specified exchange rate as of a specified date. In the period from that date until payment in the customer’s functional currency is received and converted into U.S. dollars, we can incur realized gains and losses. We also incur foreign currency exchange gains and losses on certain intercompany assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. We are currently utilizing 30-day forward contracts to mitigate our exposure on these currency fluctuations. Any increase or decrease in the fair value of the forward contracts is offset by the change in the value of the hedged assets of our consolidated foreign affiliate. At September 30, 2018, we had one 30-day forward contract to sell 2.6 million British pounds sterling and to purchase $3.4 million that together, had an immaterial fair value. At December 31, 2017, we had one 30-day forward contract to sell 2.5 million British pounds sterling and to purchase $3.4 million that together, had an immaterial fair value.  
Item 3. Defaults Upon Senior Securities  
