The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.  
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.  
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
Monotype Imaging Holdings Inc. (the “Company” or “we”) is a leading global provider of branded and design assets, technology and expertise for creative professionals and consumer device manufacturers. We provide high-quality creative assets and technology solutions across multiple devices and mediums. Our solutions, which include type, visual content marketing solutions, custom design services, and tools and technologies that enable the creative process are licensed through our direct sales channel, 
four domestic operating subsidiaries, Monotype Imaging Inc., Monotype ITC Inc. (“ITC”), MyFonts Inc. (“MyFonts”) and Olapic, Inc., and 
We have elected to present the analysis of changes in stockholders’ equity quarterly in statement form for the current and comparative quarter to date and year to date interim periods and state the amount of dividends per share in the aggregate for each class of shares in accordance with the provisions in Regulation S-X, Rule 8-03(a)(5) and 10-01(a)(7). 
Form 10-K. The Company’s significant accounting policies and practices are as described in the Annual Report, except for the adoption of the accounting standards described in Note 3 below. 
We classify cloud-based subscriptions and other services, such as font related services, custom font design and post contract support as service revenue on our condensed consolidated statements of operations. All other revenue is classified as license revenue.   
3. Recent Accounting Pronouncements  
2016-02 requires the identification of arrangements that should be accounted for as leases by lessees. In general, for lease arrangements exceeding a twelve-month term, these arrangements must now be recognized as assets and liabilities on the balance sheet of the lessee. Under ASU  
2016-02 on January 1, 2019. We elected the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance within the new standard, which among other things allows us to carryforward the historical lease classification. We also elected the practical expedient that allows an accounting policy election to exclude right of use assets and lease obligations from the balance sheet for all leases with an initial term of 12 months or less. 
As permitted in the standard, the Company is using a modified retrospective approach, where current periods are shown under the new standard, while comparative periods are shown under Accounting Standard Codification No. 840, Leases (prior to the adoption of ASU 
2016-02), where entities recognize a cumulative effect to retained earnings at the date of adoption without restating prior periods’ balances or disclosures. 
right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for operating leases. At adoption, the Company recognized 
right-of-use assets of approximately $14.4 million and total lease liabilities of $15.9 million. 
2017-12 on January 1, 2019 and there was no material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 
Other Comprehensive Income. This guidance allows a reclassification from accumulated other comprehensive income to retained earnings for stranded tax effects resulting from Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“The Act”). The new standard is effective for annual and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2018. We adopted this pronouncement on January 1, 2019 and elected to not reclassify the stranded federal corporate tax rate effects to retained earnings, which amount to approximately $0.6 million. 
. This update clarifies the accounting for implementation costs related to a cloud computing arrangement that is a service contract previously defined in ASU 
. This guidance eliminates requirements for certain disclosures and requires certain additional disclosures concerning the company’s defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement plans. This guidance is effective for annual and interim reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2020, with early adoption permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of ASU 
, which requires companies to measure credit losses utilizing a methodology that reflects expected credit losses and requires a consideration of a broader range of reasonable and supportable information to inform credit loss estimates. The new standard is effective for annual and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2019, with early adoption permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of ASU 
Our Creative Professional revenue is primarily derived from rights to use font licenses, custom font design services, our web font and digital ad related services (which includes our web font services and web design tools), and hosted software as a service, or SaaS, offerings. We license fonts directly to 
e-commerce websites and indirectly through third-party resellers. Our customers include graphic designers, advertising agencies, media organizations and corporations. 
Revenue from font licenses is recognized upfront when the font software is delivered or made available to the customer. Custom font design services are generally not a separate distinct performance obligation and are sold with a license for the custom font, in which case revenue is recognized upon completion of the services and when the font is delivered and accepted by the customer. In limited cases, the Company has an enforceable right to payment prior to final delivery and acceptance of custom font design work. In these cases the Company has determined that the proper treatment is a single over-time performance obligation using input methods (incurred hours towards completion) to measure progress towards completion to determine the pattern of satisfaction of the performance obligation.  
For our hosted offerings where we provide our customers the right to access our software without taking possession, revenue is recognized over the contract period on a time-elapsed basis, which is consistent with the transfer of service to the customer. Payment terms and conditions for Creative Professional contracts generally require payment within thirty to sixty days of contract inception. An exception exists for certain contracts for our SaaS offerings or a limited number of multi-year term license agreements which have periodic payment terms, generally quarterly or annually, over the term of the contract. In instances where the timing of revenue recognition differs from the respective payment terms, we have considered whether such contracts include a significant financing component, subject to the applicable practical expedient. The purpose of these payment structures is to align with industry and market standards, not to provide customers with financing. We have determined our contracts generally do not include a significant financing component; however, the Company will continue to assess (1) the length of time between when the goods or services are delivered and expected payment, and (2) prevailing interest rates in the market to 
customer. Certain OEM contracts may include customer support services and unspecified updates for our font technology which is a distinct stand-ready performance obligation and recognized ratably over the service period. Many of our 
Our contracts with customers often include promises to transfer multiple products and services to a customer. Determining whether products and services are considered distinct performance obligations that should be accounted for separately versus together may require significant judgment. Once we determine the performance obligations, the Company determines the transaction price, which includes estimating the amount of variable consideration to be included in the transaction price, if any. We then allocate the transaction price to each performance obligation in the contract based on a relative stand-alone selling price method. The corresponding revenue is recognized as the related performance obligations are satisfied as discussed in the revenue categories above.  
Judgment is required to determine the standalone selling price for each distinct performance obligation. We determine standalone selling price based on the price at which the performance obligation is sold separately. If the standalone selling price is not observable through past transactions, we estimate the standalone selling price taking into account available information such as market conditions and internally approved pricing guidelines related to the performance obligations.  
 months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
As discussed above, certain of our Creative Professional contracts have payment terms that differ from the timing of revenue recognition which requires us to assess whether the transaction price for those contracts include a significant financing component. We have elected the practical expedient which permits an entity to not adjust for the effects of a significant financing component if we expect that at the contract inception, the period between when the entity transfers a promised good or service to a customer and when the customer pays for that good or service will be one year or less. For those contracts in which the period exceeds the one year threshold, this assessment, as well as the quantitative estimate of the financing component and its relative significance, requires judgment. We estimate the significant financing component provided to our customers with extended payment terms by determining the present value of the future payments by applying a discount rate that reflects the customer’s creditworthiness.  
Revenue recognized during the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 from amounts included in deferred revenue at the beginning of the period were approximately $3.7 million and $7.6 million, respectively. Revenue recognized during the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 from amounts included in deferred revenue at the beginning of the period were approximately $9.4 million and $14.4 million, respectively. Revenue recognized during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 from performance obligations satisfied or partially satisfied in previous periods, mainly due to changes in the estimate of royalty revenues, was $5.5 million. Revenue recognized during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 from performance obligations satisfied or partially satisfied in previous periods, mainly due to changes in the estimate of royalty revenues, was $4.6 million. During the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, the change in contract assets reclassified to receivables as a result of the right to the transaction consideration becoming unconditional was not material. The contract modifications entered into during the six months ended June 30, 2019 and June 30, 2018 did not have a significant impact on the Company’s contract assets or deferred revenue.  
We capitalize incremental costs incurred to fulfill our contracts that (i) relate directly to the contract, (ii) are expected to generate resources that will be used to satisfy the Company’s performance obligation under the contract, and (iii) are expected to be recovered through revenue generated under the contract. Contract fulfillment costs primarily relate to font license fees that we pay on certain fonts that are owned by third parties. These fees are related to license revenue that is satisfied at a point in time and payable again upon license renewal, and as a result are incurred immediately upon contract execution. Accordingly, there were no capitalized costs related to costs to fulfill a contract as of June 30, 2019 or as of December 31, 2018.  
30-day forward contract to sell 2.7 million British pounds sterling and purchase $3.4 million that together, had an immaterial fair value. At December 31, 2018, we had one 
30-day forward contract to sell 2.7 million British pounds sterling and purchase $3.4 million that together, had an immaterial fair value. 
non-financial liabilities subject to non-recurring measurements include goodwill and intangible assets.  
We have operating leases for corporate offices and certain equipment. Our leases have remaining lease terms of 1 year to 6 years, some of which contain options to extend the leases for up to 5 years and some which include options to terminate the leases within 1 year. We have lease agreements with lease and 
non-lease components, which are generally accounted for separately.
We determine if an arrangement is a lease at inception. Operating leases are included in the operating lease 
right-of-use (“ROU”) assets and the short-term and long-term lease liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets. ROU assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease. Operating lease ROU assets and liabilities are recognized at commencement date based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term. As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on information available at commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments. The operating lease ROU asset also includes any lease payments made and excludes lease incentives. Our lease terms may include options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise that option. Lease expense for lease payments is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term. 
letter-of-credit in the amount of approximately $0.5 million as security on the lease obligation. The 
letter-of credit is a reduction of the available borrowings under the Credit facility.
As of June 30, 2019, we have additional operating leases, primarily for corporate offices, that have not yet commenced of $2.1 million. These operating leases will commence in 2019 with lease terms of 1 to 
On March 22, 2019, the Company entered into a new credit agreement (the “New Credit Agreement”) by and among the Company, the Company’s subsidiary, Monotype Imaging Inc., (“the Borrower”), any financial institution that becomes a Lender and Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent. Pursuant to the New Credit Agreement the Lenders have agreed to provide the Borrower with a five-year $200.0 million senior secured revolving credit facility (the “Credit Facility”). The Credit Facility permits the Company to request that the Lenders, at their election, increase the secured credit facility to a maximum of $300.0 million. The Credit Facility provides more flexibility in addition to an increased borrowing capacity and extended terms, as defined above. The New Credit Agreement replaced the Company’s existing $150.0 million revolving credit facility (the “Original Credit Agreement”) by and between the Company and Silicon Valley Bank. The Original Credit Agreement was terminated effective March 22, 2019 and was scheduled to expire on September 15, 2020. The Company had $75.0 million outstanding under the Original Credit Agreement at December 31, 2018. Available borrowings under the Original Credit Agreement were reduced by approximately $0.5 million for one standby letter of credit issued in connection with a facility lease agreement, leaving $74.5 million available for borrowings at December 31, 2018. At June 30, 2019, the Company had $65.0 million outstanding under the Credit Facility. Available borrowings under the Credit Facility have been reduced by approximately $0.5 million for one standby letter of credit issued in connection with a facility lease agreement, leaving $134.5 million available for borrowings at June 30, 2019. 
pro-rata share of prior loan syndicate lenders that did not participate in the new facility were written off and charged to other expense in the first quarter of 2019.
non-operating expense shall not exceed 10% of Consolidated EBITDA. The New Credit Agreement also provides for a number of customary events of default, including, among others, payment, bankruptcy, covenant, representation and warranty, change of control and judgment defaults. Failure to comply with these covenants, or the occurrence of an event of default, could permit the Lenders under the New Credit Agreement to declare all amounts borrowed under the New Credit Agreement, together with accrued interest and fees, to be immediately due and payable. The obligations of the Borrower under the Credit Facilities are unconditionally guaranteed by the Company and certain subsidiaries and secured by a lien on substantially all of the present and future property and assets of the Company and such subsidiaries, in each case, subject to limited exceptions and exclusions. 
11. Net Income (Loss) Per Share  
On May 3, 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors approved a share purchase program permitting repurchases of up to $25.0 million of the Company’s outstanding shares of common stock through 
We account for stock based compensation in accordance with ASC Topic No. 718, 
As of June 30, 2019, the Company had $24.8 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to employees and directors’ unvested stock awards and stock units that are expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 2.1 years.  
In December 2017, the Company implemented a restructuring plan to accelerate the integration of the Olapic business into the core of Monotype in an effort to improve operational efficiencies and to align its investment in the Olapic business to better support it over time. The plan provided for the elimination of 89 positions worldwide. As part of this plan, the Company recorded charges of approximately $3.0 million for severance and termination benefits and $0.2 million of facilities and associated costs. This restructuring was completed in the third quarter of 2018. 
, the Company implemented a restructuring plan, under which the Company reduced headcount in certain areas of the Company, made the decision to cease sales and marketing of the Swyft product and service line and to close a regional office, all in an effort to improve operational efficiencies. The plan provided for the elimination of approximately 50
 positions worldwide across a variety of functions, with a concentration within engineering, as well as sales and marketing. The Company recorded net charges totaling $6.8
 million related to severance and termination benefits, net of stock based compensation reversal, the write off of goodwill and intangible assets attributable to Swyft, the acceleration of the final deferred compensation payment to the founders of Swyft, and charges associated with the office closure. We reversed $1.4
 million of stock based compensation expense as a result of forfeitures of awards by employees included in the restructuring plan. In the six months ended June 30
, the severance and termination accrual was reduced based on the completion of certain final termination agreements. This restructuring plan was completed by December 31
, other than the payment of deferred termination benefits to certain terminated employees. 
The Company continued to refine its cost structure, and in December 2018, implemented a restructuring plan in an effort to improve operational efficiencies. The plan provided for the elimination of 15 positions worldwide, including the positions held by 
two of the Olapic founders. To date, the Company recorded charges of approximately $1.0 million for severance and termination benefits associated with this plan and $0.9 million of accelerated expense associated with the final deferred compensation payment in connection with the departure of those founders. In addition, $0.9 million was recorded for additional stock based compensation expense associated with the acceleration of the vesting of those departing founders’ equity grants in accordance with the separation agreements. This restructuring plan was completed in the second quarter of 2019, other than the payment of deferred termination benefits to certain terminated employees.   
Future cash expenditures related to the restructuring are expected to be approximately $0.4 million, net of tax savings. 
15. Commitments and Contingencies 
19.85 per share in cash, or approximately $
825 million (the “Transaction”). The Transaction is subject to shareholder approval and other customary closing conditions.  
Item 1. Legal Proceedings  
Item 1A. Risk Factors  
 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018. 
