fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements were prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, or U.S. GAAP, for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, Regulation S-X.
The January 28, 2018 consolidated balance sheet was derived from our audited consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2018, as filed with the SEC, but does not include all disclosures required by U.S. GAAP.
Except for the accounting policy for revenue recognition, which was updated as a result of adopting a new accounting standard related to revenue recognition, there have been no material changes to our significant accounting policies in Note 1 - Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2018.
Revenue is recognized net of allowances for returns, customer programs and any taxes collected from customers.
For products sold with a right of return, we record a reduction to revenue by establishing a sales return allowance for estimated product returns at the time revenue is recognized, based primarily on historical return rates.
Our customer programs involve rebates, which are designed to serve as sales incentives to resellers of our products in various target markets, and marketing development funds, or MDFs, which represent monies paid to our partners that are earmarked for market segment development and are designed to support our partners’ activities while also promoting NVIDIA products.
Software licenses are frequently sold along with post-contract customer support, or PCS.
For such arrangements, we allocate revenue to the software license and PCS on a relative standalone selling price basis by maximizing the use of observable inputs to determine the standalone selling price for each performance obligation.
PCS revenue is recognized ratably over the service period, or as services are performed.
All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
The Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued an accounting standards update that creates a single source of revenue guidance under U.S. GAAP for all companies, in all industries.
In January 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standards update to amend certain aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure of financial instruments.
In February 2016 and July 2018, the FASB issued accounting standards updates regarding the accounting for leases by which we will begin recognizing lease assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for lease terms of more than 12 months.
We are evaluating the impact of adopting the new lease accounting standards on our consolidated financial statements, systems and processes in conjunction with our review of lease agreements.
On January 29, 2018, we adopted the new revenue accounting standard using the modified retrospective method and applied it to contracts that were not completed as of that date.


item2.txt
Selected Financial Data” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2018 and “Item 1A.
We have extended our focus in recent years to the revolutionary field of AI.
GPU business revenue was $2.77 billion, up 25% from a year earlier and up 4% sequentially, reflecting growth in professional visualization, datacenter, and gaming GPUs.
Tegra Processor business revenue - which includes automotive, SOC modules for the Nintendo Switch gaming console, and other embedded edge AI platforms - was $407 million, down 3% from a year ago and down 13% sequentially.
Gaming revenue was $1.76 billion, up 13% from a year ago driven by growth in gaming GPUs, and down 2% sequentially as gaming GPU growth was more than offset by a seasonal decline in SOC modules for Nintendo Switch.
Professional visualization revenue was $305 million, up 28% from a year earlier and up 9% sequentially driven by strength across both desktop and mobile workstation products.
Datacenter revenue was $792 million, up 58% from a year ago and up 4% sequentially, led by strong sales of our Volta architecture-based products, including NVIDIA Tesla V100 and DGX systems, with contribution from the new Turing T4 Cloud GPU.
Automotive revenue of $172 million was up 19% from a year earlier and up 7% sequentially, incorporating infotainment modules, production DRIVE PX platforms, and development agreements with automotive companies.
OEM and IP revenue was $148 million, down 23% from a year ago, due to the absence of cryptocurrency mining.
Gross margin for the third quarter of fiscal year 2019 was 60.4%.
We intend to return an additional $3.00 billion to shareholders by the end of fiscal year 2020, which may begin in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2019.
Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were $7.59 billion as of October 28, 2018, compared with $7.94 billion at the end of the prior quarter.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Refer to Part I, Item 1, Note 13 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of significant developments in our legal proceedings since January 28, 2018.
Also refer to Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2018 for a prior discussion of our legal proceedings.


