fls.txt
In June 2016, the FASB issued a new accounting standard to replace the incurred loss impairment methodology under current GAAP with a methodology that reflects expected credit losses and requires consideration of a broader range of reasonable and supportable information to inform credit loss estimates.


item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements were prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, or U.S. GAAP, for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, Regulation S-X.
The January 27, 2019 consolidated balance sheet was derived from our audited consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 27, 2019, as filed with the SEC, but does not include all disclosures required by U.S. GAAP.
Except for adopting a new accounting standard related to leases, there have been no material changes to our significant accounting policies in Note 1 - Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 27, 2019.
We determine if an arrangement is or contains a lease at inception.
Operating leases with lease terms of more than 12 months are included in operating lease assets, accrued and other current liabilities, and long-term operating lease liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet.
Operating lease assets and liabilities are recognized based on the present value of the remaining lease payments discounted using our incremental borrowing rate.
Our lease terms include options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise that option.
All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
The Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued an accounting standards update regarding the accounting for leases under which lease assets and liabilities are recognized on the balance sheet.
In June 2016, the FASB issued a new accounting standard to replace the incurred loss impairment methodology under current GAAP with a methodology that reflects expected credit losses and requires consideration of a broader range of reasonable and supportable information to inform credit loss estimates.
We will be required to use a forward-looking expected credit loss model for accounts receivable and other financial instruments, including available-for-sale debt securities.
If the Merger Agreement is terminated under certain circumstances involving the failure to obtain the required regulatory approvals, we could be obligated to pay Mellanox a termination fee of $350 million.
In addition, we elected the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance, which allowed us not to reassess (1) whether any expired or existing contracts are or contain leases, (2) lease classification for any expired or existing leases, and (3) initial direct costs for any existing leases.


item2.txt
Selected Financial Data” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 27, 2019 and “Item 1A.
We have extended our focus in recent years to the revolutionary field of AI.
GPU business revenue was $2.56 billion, down 8% from a year earlier and up 22% sequentially.
Tegra Processor business revenue - which includes Automotive, SOC modules for gaming platforms, and embedded edge AI platforms - was $449 million, up 10% from a year ago and down 5% sequentially.
The year-on-year decrease reflects lower sales of GeForce desktop GPUs from the prior year which included the launch of Turing-based GeForce GPUs, partially offset by growth in GeForce notebook GPUs and SOC modules for gaming platforms.
The year-on-year and sequential growth reflect strength in mobile workstation products.
Data Center revenue was $726 million, down 8% from a year ago and up 11% sequentially.
The sequential increase was primarily due to growth in entry-level GPUs for notebooks PCs.
Gross margin for the third quarter of fiscal year 2020 was 63.6%, up 320 basis points from a year earlier and up 380 basis points sequentially.
The year-on-year and sequential increases are primarily driven by improved margins on GeForce GPUs for gaming reflecting the sale of previously written-off components and lower component costs.
The sequential increase also reflects higher average selling prices for GeForce GPUs.
We previously communicated our intent to return $3.00 billion to shareholders by the end of fiscal year 2020, including $700 million in share repurchases made during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2019.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Refer to Part I, Item 1, Note 13 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of significant developments in our legal proceedings since January 27, 2019.
Also refer to Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 27, 2019 for a prior discussion of our legal proceedings.
Other than the risk factors listed below, there have been no material changes from the risk factors previously described under Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 27, 2019 and Item 1A of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended April 28, 2019.


