The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements were prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, or U.S. GAAP, for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, Regulation S-X.
The January 27, 2019 consolidated balance sheet was derived from our audited consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 27, 2019, as filed with the SEC, but does not include all disclosures required by U.S. GAAP.
Except for the accounting policy for leases, which was updated as a result of adopting a new accounting standard related to leases, there have been no material changes to our significant accounting policies in Note 1 - Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 27, 2019.
We determine if an arrangement is or contains a lease at inception.
Operating leases with lease terms of more than 12 months are included in operating lease assets, accrued and other current liabilities, and long-term operating lease liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet.
Operating lease assets and liabilities are recognized based on the present value of the remaining lease payments discounted using our incremental borrowing rate.
Our lease terms include options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise that option.
All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
The Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued an accounting standards update regarding the accounting for leases under which lease assets and liabilities are recognized on the balance sheet.Selected Financial Data” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 27, 2019 and “Item 1A.
We have extended our focus in recent years to the revolutionary field of AI.
GPU business revenue was $2.02 billion, down 27% from a year earlier and up 2% sequentially.
Tegra Processor business revenue - which includes automotive, SOC modules for gaming platforms, and embedded edge AI platforms - was $198 million, down 55% from a year ago and down 12% sequentially.
The year-on-year decrease primarily reflects a decline in shipments of SOC modules for gaming platforms.
Professional Visualization revenue was $266 million, up 6% from a year earlier and down 9% sequentially.
The year-on-year increase reflects strength across both desktop and mobile workstation products.
Gross margin for the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 was 58.4%, down 610 basis points from a year earlier and up 370 basis points sequentially.Refer to Part I, Item 1, Note 13 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of significant developments in our legal proceedings since January 27, 2019.