Item 1: Financial Statements (unaudited) 



PCTEL, INC. 



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 







The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 





PCTEL, INC. 



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (unaudited) 







The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 





PCTEL, INC. 



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) (unaudited) 







The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 





PCTEL, INC. 



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY 







The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements 





PCTEL, INC. 



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 







The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 





PCTEL, INC. 



NOTES TO THE CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 





1. Basis of Presentation 



The accompanying unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”) for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X. Accordingly, they do not include all the information and footnotes required by U.S. GAAP for complete financial statements. In the opinion of management, all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring accruals) considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included. For further information, refer to the audited consolidated financial statements and footnotes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 (the “2018 Form 10-K”). 



Nature of Operations 





Product Lines 



Antenna Products  





Test and Measurement Products  





Reorganization and Segment Reporting  



Effective August 2018, the Company consolidated its organizational structure to drive growth and address the convergence in the Industrial IoT, public safety, and 4G infrastructure markets and the emergence of new technologies such as 5G (the “Reorganization”). The Company’s operations, engineering, business development, sales and marketing, and operational general and administrative functions were consolidated into a single enterprise-wide organization. As a result of the Reorganization that occurred in the third quarter 2018, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, as the chief operating decision maker (“CODM”) began assessing operating  





profits and identified assets at the enterprise level for resource allocations. In connection with the Reorganization, the Board of Directors appointed a Chief Operating Officer who maintains regular contact with the CODM to discuss operating activities, financial results, forecasts, and plans for the Company’s businesses. All operating profit and cash flows are measured and managed at the enterprise level.  



Until the Reorganization, PCTEL operated in two segments for reporting purposes, Connected Solutions and RF Solutions. The CODM assessed operating profits and identified assets for the Connected Solutions and RF Solutions segments for resource allocations. Each segment had its own general manager as well as its own engineering, business development, sales and marketing, and operational general and administrative functions. 



The Company includes revenues and gross profit for the two major product lines (antenna products and test and measurement products) because each product line has a significantly different gross profit profile. In order to understand the Company’s financial results, it is necessary to understand the impact on gross profit of the revenue mix between them.  



Basis of Consolidation 



The unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements of the Company include the condensed consolidated balance sheets for the period ended June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, and the condensed consolidated statements of operations, statements of comprehensive loss, the condensed consolidated statements of stockholders’ equity and statements of cash flows for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The interim condensed consolidated financial statements are unaudited and reflect all adjustments of a normal recurring nature that are, in the opinion of management, necessary for a fair presentation of the interim period financial statements. The condensed consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2018 is derived from the audited financial statements as of December 31, 2018.  



The unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements of the Company have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Accordingly, certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP have been condensed or omitted. The significant accounting policies followed by the Company are set forth in the 2018 Form 10-K. There were no significant changes in the Company’s significant accounting policies during the six months ended June 30, 2019. See Note 10 related to Leases for additional disclosures related to the implementation of ASU 2016-02 (“Topic 842”). In addition, the Company reaffirms the use of estimates in the preparation of the financial statements as set forth in the 2018 Form 10-K. These unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the 2018 Form 10-K. The results of operations for the period ended June 30, 2019 may not be indicative of the results for the period ending December 31, 2019. 



Foreign Operations 



The Company is exposed to foreign currency fluctuations due to its foreign operations and because products are sold internationally. The functional currency for the Company’s foreign operations is predominantly the applicable local currency. Accounts of foreign operations are translated into U.S. dollars using the exchange rate in effect at the applicable balance sheet date for assets and liabilities and average monthly rates prevailing during the period for revenue and expense accounts. Adjustments resulting from translation are included in accumulated other comprehensive loss, a separate component of stockholders’ equity. Gains and losses resulting from other transactions originally in foreign currencies and then translated into U.S. dollars are included in the condensed consolidated statements of operations. Net foreign exchange gains resulting from foreign currency transactions included in other income, net was $85 and $60 for the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Net foreign exchange gains (losses) resulting from foreign currency transactions included in other income, net was $28 and $(9) for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.  



Recent Accounting Pronouncements 



In February 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2016-02, Leases (“Topic 842”), which amends existing guidance to require lessees to recognize assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for the rights and obligations created by long-term leases and to disclose additional quantitative and qualitative information about leasing arrangements. This ASU also provides clarifications surrounding the presentation of the effects of leases in the income statement and statement of cash flows. The Company adopted this guidance on January 1, 2019. The Company commenced its assessment of Topic 842 in the second half of 2018 and developed a project plan to guide the implementation. The Company completed this project plan, in which it analyzed the ASU's impact on its leases, surveyed the Company's key employees, assessed the portfolio of leases, and established a future lease process to keep the lease accounting portfolio up to date. The Company also evaluated the key policy elections and considerations under the standard and completed the internal policy documentation to address the new standard requirements. The Company adopted this new guidance using the updated modified transition method allowed per ASU 2018-11 of Topic 842. Upon adoption on January 1, 2019,  





total assets and liabilities increased due to the recording of right-of-use assets of $1.5 million and lease liabilities of $1.6 million. Additional information and disclosures required by this new standard are contained in Note 10, 'Leases'. 





In June 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-13 (ASU 2016-13) regarding ASC Topic 326, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses, which modifies the measurement of expected credit losses of certain financial instruments. The amendments will be effective for the Company on January 1, 2020. The Company is currently evaluating this guidance and the impact it will have on its consolidated financial statements.  



2. Fair Value of Financial Instruments 











Cash equivalents are measured at fair value and investments are recognized at amortized cost in the Company’s financial statements. Accounts receivable and other investments are financial assets with carrying values that approximate fair value due to the short-term nature of these assets. Accounts payable is a financial liability with a carrying value that approximates fair value due to the short-term nature of these liabilities. 



3. Earnings per Share 













4. Cash, Cash Equivalents and Investments 







Cash and Cash Equivalents 



At June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, cash and cash equivalents included bank balances and investments with original maturities less than 90 days. At June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the Company’s cash equivalents were invested in highly liquid AAA rated money market funds that are required to comply with Rule 2a-7 of the Investment Company Act of 1940. Such funds utilize the amortized cost method of accounting, seek to maintain a constant $1.00 per share price, and are redeemable upon demand. The Company restricts its investments in AAA money market funds to those invested 100% in either short-term U.S. government agency securities or bank repurchase agreements collateralized by these same securities. The fair values of these money market funds are established through quoted prices in active markets for identical assets (Level 1 inputs). The Company’s cash in U.S. banks is insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation up to the insurable limit of $250.  



The Company had $1.5 million and $0.8 million of cash and cash equivalents in foreign bank accounts at June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively. The Company’s cash in its foreign bank accounts is not insured. Within the cash in foreign bank accounts, the Company had cash of $1.5 million and $0.6 million in China bank accounts at June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively. As of June 30, 2019, the Company has no intentions of repatriating the cash in its foreign bank accounts in China. If the Company decides to repatriate the cash in the foreign bank accounts, it may have trouble in doing so in a timely manner. The Company may also be exposed to foreign currency fluctuations and taxes if it repatriates these funds. The Company completed the closure of its Israeli subsidiary during the fourth quarter of 2018. The Company repatriated the subsidiary’s remaining cash of $0.2 million during the second quarter of 2019. The foreign currency exchange impact related to the repatriation of these funds did not have a material impact on the financial statements.  



Investments 



At June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the Company’s short-term investments consisted of U.S. government agency bonds, A or higher rated corporate bonds, and certificates of deposit. All the investments at June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018 were classified as held-to-maturity. The bonds have original maturities greater than 90 days and mature in less than one year. The Company’s bond investments are recorded at the purchase price and carried at amortized cost.  









The Company categorizes its financial instruments within a fair value hierarchy according to accounting guidance for fair value. The fair value hierarchy is described under the Fair Value of Financial Instruments in Note 2. For the Level 2 investments, the Company uses quoted prices of similar assets in active markets. The fair values in the table above reflect net unrealized losses of $51 and $21 at June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.  



5. Goodwill and Intangible Assets 



Goodwill 



There were no changes to the goodwill valued at $3.3 million during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019. There were no triggering events during the quarter ended June 30, 2019. The Company will continue to monitor goodwill for impairment going forward.  



The goodwill is related to the test and measurement product line, not to the whole Company. The test and measurement product line is a reporting unit because the Company has discrete financial information necessary to perform goodwill impairment testing for this reporting unit under the accounting guidance. The Company evaluates the goodwill based on the cash flows for the test and measurement product line. The cash flows for the test and measurement product line are only prepared for testing goodwill and were not reviewed by the Company’s CODM for business planning purposes.  



Intangible Assets 













The $0.5 million decrease in the net book value of intangible assets at June 30, 2019 compared to December 31, 2018 relates to amortization expense for the six months ended June 30, 2019.  











6. Balance Sheet Information 



Accounts Receivable 



Accounts receivable are recorded at invoiced amounts with standard net terms that range between 30 and 90 days. The Company extends credit to its customers based on an evaluation of a customer’s financial condition and collateral is generally not required. The Company maintains an allowance for estimated uncollectible accounts receivable. The allowance is based on the Company’s assessment of known delinquent accounts, historical experience, and other currently available evidence of the collectability and the aging of accounts receivable. The Company’s allowance for doubtful accounts was $0.1 million at June 30, 2019 and at December 31, 2018.  



Inventories 



Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market and include material, labor and overhead costs using the first-in, first-out method of costing. Inventories as of June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018 were composed of raw materials, sub-assemblies, work-in-process and finished goods. The Company had consigned inventory with customers of $0.2 million and $0.9 million at June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively. The Company records allowances to reduce the value of inventory to the lower of cost or market, including allowances for excess and obsolete inventory. Reserves for excess inventory are calculated based on our estimate of inventory in excess of normal and planned usage. Obsolete reserves are based on our identification of inventory where the carrying value is above net realizable value. The allowance for inventory losses was $3.2 million at June 30, 2019 and $3.3 million at December 31, 2018. 









Prepaid and Other Current Assets 



Prepaid assets are stated at cost and are amortized over the useful lives (up to one year) of the assets. 



Property and Equipment 



Property and equipment are stated at cost and are depreciated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. The Company depreciates computer equipment over three to five years, office equipment, manufacturing and test equipment, and motor vehicles over five years, furniture and fixtures over seven years, and buildings over 30 years. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the shorter of the corresponding lease term or useful life. Depreciation expense and gains and losses on the disposal of property and equipment are included in cost of sales and operating expenses in the condensed consolidated statements of operations. Maintenance and repairs are expensed as incurred. 







Depreciation and amortization expense was approximately $0.7 million for the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Depreciation and amortization expense was approximately $1.4 million for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Amortization for finance leases is included in depreciation and amortization expense. See Note 10 for information related to finance leases. 





Liabilities 













The condensed consolidated statements of operations include $1.4 million and $1.1 million of stock compensation expense for the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The condensed consolidated statements of operations include $2.3 million and $1.8 million of stock compensation expense for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The Company accounts for forfeitures as they occur.  













Restricted Stock – Service Based 



The Company grants restricted shares as employee and director incentives. When service-based restricted stock is granted, the Company records deferred stock compensation within additional paid in capital, representing the fair value of the common stock on the date the restricted shares are granted. The Company records stock compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the vesting period of the applicable service-based restricted shares. These grants vest over various periods. During the first quarter 2019, the Company issued 190,159 service-based restricted stock awards to employees that vest in equal annual increments over three years.   







The intrinsic value of service-based restricted shares that vested during the three months ended June 30, 2019 was $8. The intrinsic value of service-based restricted shares that vested during the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 was $2.1 million and $0.8 million, respectively. No service-based restricted shares vested during the three months ended June 30, 2018.  



At June 30, 2019, total unrecognized compensation expense related to restricted stock was approximately $2.5 million to be recognized through 2022 over a weighted average period of 1.4 years. 



Restricted Stock Units – Service Based 



The Company grants restricted stock units as employee incentives. Restricted stock units are primarily granted to foreign employees for long-term incentive purposes. Employee restricted stock units are service-based awards and are amortized over the vesting period. At the vesting date, these units are converted to shares of common stock. The Company records expense on a straight-line basis for restricted stock units. 







The intrinsic value of service-based restricted stock units that vested and were issued as shares during the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 was $30 and $29, respectively. No service-based restricted stock units vested during the three months ended June 30, 2019 or 2018.   



As of June 30, 2019, the unrecognized compensation expense related to the unvested portion of the Company’s restricted stock units was approximately $42 , to be recognized through 2022 over a weighted average period of 1.1 years. 



Stock Options 



The Company grants stock options to purchase common stock primarily to certain new employees. The exercise price of the stock options is no less than the fair value of the Company’s stock on the grant date. Outstanding stock options have either a seven-year or ten-year life and generally vest over a period of four years, 25% after one year, and ratably on a monthly basis thereafter. Stock options may be exercised at any time prior to their expiration date or within 180 days of termination of employment, or such shorter time as may be provided in the related stock option agreement.  

















The intrinsic value is based on the share price of $4.43 at June 30, 2019. 



There were no stock options granted during the six months ended June 30, 2019. For outstanding stock options, the Company calculated the fair value of each option grant on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. Because the Company’s employee stock options have characteristics significantly different from those of traded options, and because changes in the subjective input assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate, the existing models may not necessarily provide a reliable single measure of the fair value of the employee stock options. In addition, option valuation models require the input of highly subjective assumptions including the expected stock price volatility and expected option life.  



The dividend yield rate is calculated by dividing the Company’s annual dividend by the closing price on the grant date. The risk-free interest rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yields with a remaining term that approximates the expected life of the options granted. The expected volatility is based on a five-year historical period of the Company’s stock price. The expected life for options granted is based on historical data of employee exercise performance. The Company records expense based on the graded vesting method. 



As of June 30, 2019, the unrecognized compensation expense related to the unvested portion of the Company’s stock options was approximately $2, to be recognized through 2021 over a weighted average period of 1.1 years. 



Performance-Based Equity Awards 



In February 2019, the Company’s Board of Directors approved the 2019 Long-Term Incentive Plan (“2019 LTIP”). Under the 2019 LTIP, shares of the Company’s stock can be earned by certain executives and key managers based on achievement of a three-year revenue growth target with a penalty if a certain adjusted EBITDA level is not maintained. At target, the aggregate number of shares that can be earned is 171,437. If the Company achieves less than the target growth over the performance period, the participant will receive fewer shares than the target award, determined on a straight-line basis. If the Company, achieves greater than the target growth, the participant will receive more shares than the target award on an accelerated basis. The maximum number of aggregate  





shares that may be issued under the 2019 LTIP is 300,015 as of June 30, 2019. During the three months and six months ended June 30, 2019, the shares that can be earned at target and the maximum shares that can be earned declined by 2,680 and 4,690, respectively due to employee terminations.  



The performance period for the 2019 LTIP is from January 1, 2019 through December 31, 2021 and the participants are required to be in service at the determination date of the award following the end of the performance period in order to receive the award. Shares earned under the 2019 LTIP will be fully vested shares. Stock compensation expense is amortized over the performance period for these awards based on estimated achievement of the goal. At target, the total fair market of the award was $0.9 million based on the share price on $5.27 on the grant date. 



Short-Term Incentive Plan 





Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“ESPP”) 



The ESPP enables eligible employees to purchase common stock at the lower of 85% of the fair market value of the common stock on the first or last day of each offering period. Each offering period is approximately six months. The Company received proceeds of $0.3 million from the issuance of 95,376 shares under the ESPP in February 2019 and received proceeds of $0.4 million from the issuance of 68,212 shares under the ESPP in February 2018. The Company received proceeds of $0.3 million from the issuance of 88,583 shares under the ESPP in August 2018. 



Based on the 15% discount and the fair value of the option feature of the ESPP, it is considered compensatory. Compensation expense is calculated using the fair value of the employees’ purchase rights under the Black-Scholes model. 







The dividend yield rate was calculated by dividing the Company’s annual dividend by the closing price on the grant date. The risk-free interest rate was based on the U.S. Treasury yields with a remaining term that approximates the expected life of the options granted. The volatility was based on a five-year historical period of the Company’s stock price. The expected life was based on the offering period. 





Board of Director Equity Awards  



The Company grants equity awards under the PCTEL, Inc. Stock Plan (the “Stock Plan”) to members of its Board of Directors as an annual retainer and for committee service. These awards are shares of the Company’s stock that vest upon issuance. New directors receive a one-time grant that vests over three years. For the three months and six months ended June 30, 2019, the Company issued 79,918 shares of the Company’s stock with a fair value of $0.4 million for the director’s annual retainer and for committee service. For the three months and six months ended June 30, 2018, the Company issued 60,988 shares of the Company’s stock with a fair value of $0.4 million for the directors’ annual retainer and for committee service.  



Employee Withholding Taxes on Stock Awards 



For ease in administering the issuance of stock awards, the Company holds back shares of vested restricted stock awards and short-term incentive plan stock awards for the value of the statutory withholding taxes. For each individual receiving a share award, the Company redeems the shares it computes as the value for the withholding tax and remits this amount to the appropriate tax authority. For withholding taxes related to stock awards, the Company paid $0.7 million and $0.3 million during the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. 





Employee Benefit Plans 



The Company’s 401(k) plan covers all U.S. employees beginning the first day of the month following the first month of their employment. Under this plan, employees may elect to contribute up to 15% of their current compensation to the 401(k) plan up to the statutorily prescribed annual limit. The Company matches employee contributions up to 4% and may also make discretionary contributions to the 401(k) plan. The Company also contributes to various retirement plans for foreign employees. 







9. Commitments and Contingencies 



Colorado Restructuring 



During the first quarter 2016, the Company exited from its Colorado office in order to consolidate facility space and recorded restructuring expense for the remaining obligations under the lease, net of proceeds for a sublease. The Company signed a sublease for the office space in the second quarter 2017. The obligation for the Colorado lease was retained by the Company.  At June 30, 2019, the lease obligation for the Colorado office was $158 and the lease term ends in October 2020. At June 30, 2019, the payments due for the sublease was $95. 













Warranty Reserve and Sales Returns 



The Company allows its major distributors and certain other customers to return unused product under specified terms and conditions. The Company accrues for product returns based on historical sales and return trends. The refund liability related to estimated sales returns was $0.1 million at June 30, 2019 and $0.2 million at December 31, 2018, respectively, and is included within accrued liabilities on the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheets. 



The Company offers repair and replacement warranties of up to five years for certain antenna products and scanning receiver products. The Company’s warranty reserve is based on historical sales and costs of repair and replacement trends. The warranty reserve was $0.4 million at June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and is included in accrued liabilities in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheets. 









The Company adopted Topic 842 as of January 1, 2019, using the transition method per ASU No. 2018-11, wherein entities are allowed to apply the new leases standard at the adoption date. Accordingly, all periods prior to January 1, 2019 were presented in accordance with the previous ASC Topic 840, Leases, and no retrospective adjustments were made to the comparative periods presented. Adoption of ASC 842 resulted in an increase to total assets of $1.5 million and to liabilities of $1.6 million due to the recording of operating lease right-of-use assets ("ROU") and operating lease liabilities. Finance leases were not impacted by the adoption of ASC 842, as finance lease liabilities and the corresponding ROU assets were already recorded in the balance sheet under the previous guidance, ASC 840. The adoption did not materially impact the Company’s consolidated statements of operations or cash flows. 



The Company has operating leases for facilities and finance leases for office equipment. Leases with an initial term of 12 months or less are not recorded in the balance sheet. The Company has elected the practical expedient to account for each separate lease component of a contract and its associated non-lease components as a single lease component, thus causing all fixed payments to be capitalized. The Company also elected the package of practical expedients permitted within the new standard, which among other things, allows the Company to carry forward historical lease classifications. The Company determines if an arrangement is a lease at inception of a contract.  



ROU assets represent the Company's right to use an underlying asset during the lease term and lease liabilities represent the Company's obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease. ROU assets and liabilities are recognized at the lease commencement date based on the net present value of fixed lease payments over the lease term. The Company's lease term is deemed to include options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that it will exercise that option. ROU assets also include any advance lease payments made and exclude lease incentives. As most of the Company's operating leases do not provide an implicit rate, the Company uses its incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments on a collateralized basis. Finance lease agreements generally include an interest rate that is used to determine the present value of future lease payments. Operating fixed lease expense and finance lease depreciation expense are recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term. 



























In January 2019, the Company entered into an eleven-year lease for 21,030 square feet of office space in Clarksburg, Maryland for the Company’s test and measurement product line. The new office lease will replace the leased office in Germantown, Maryland. The total undiscounted lease obligations pursuant to the new lease agreement is approximately $4.9 million. The lease commencement date for accounting purposes is expected to occur during the third quarter 2019 at the time in which the facility is made available for to the Company for use. At the lease commencement date, the Company will record the lease on the consolidated balance sheet.  









The Company recorded income tax expense of $17 for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and an income tax benefit of $0.5 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018. The expense recorded for the six months ended June 30, 2019 was lower than the statutory rate of 21% because the Company has a full valuation allowance on its deferred tax assets related to federal, foreign, and state jurisdictions. The income tax benefit recorded for the six months ended June 30, 2018 was higher than the statutory rate of 21% due to permanent differences and estimated research credits.  



 The Company’s gross deferred tax assets consist of federal and state net operating losses (“NOLs”), credits, and timing differences and are virtually all related to United States jurisdictions. The Company’s federal NOLs generated in 2019 and 2018 have an infinite life, and the Company’s NOLs and credits generated as of December 31, 2017 have a finite life primarily based on the 20-year carry forward of federal net operating losses. The timing differences have a ratable reversal pattern over 12 years. On a regular basis, the Company evaluates the recoverability of deferred tax assets and the need for a valuation allowance. Such evaluations involve the application of significant judgment. The Company considers multiple factors in its evaluation of the need for a valuation allowance. The Company’s full valuation allowance against its deferred tax assets was $14.5 million at June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018. At December 31, 2018, the Company’s cumulative pre-tax loss position for the past three years and the Company’s 2018 performance versus its 2018 projections were considered significant negative evidence which were difficult to overcome on a “more likely than not” standard through objectively verifiable data. The Company recorded a pre-tax income for the six months ended June 30, 2019 but nevertheless the cumulative three-year pre-tax loss remained negative as of June 30, 2019. While the Company believes its financial outlook remains positive, under the accounting standards objective verifiable evidence will have greater weight than subjective  





evidence such as the Company’s projections for future growth. The analysis that the Company prepared to determine the valuation allowance required significant judgment and assumptions regarding future market conditions as well as forecasts for profits, taxable income, and taxable income by jurisdiction. Due to the sensitivity of the analysis, changes to the assumptions in subsequent periods could have a material effect on the valuation allowance.  



The Company’s gross unrecognized tax benefit was $0.7 million at June 30, 2019 and at December 31, 2018.  



The Company files a consolidated federal income tax return, income tax returns with various states, and foreign income tax returns in various foreign jurisdictions. The Company’s U.S. federal tax returns remain subject to examination for 2015 and subsequent periods. The Company’s U.S. state tax returns remain subject to examination for 2012 and subsequent periods. The Company’s foreign tax returns remain subject to examination for 2010 and subsequent periods. 



12. Product Line, Customer and Geographic Information 



The following tables are the product line revenues and gross profits for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018. 

















The following table represents the customers that accounted for 10% or more of revenues during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018. 





The following table represents the customers that accounted for 10% or more of total trade accounts receivable at June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018.  





13. Revenue from Contracts with Customers 



Under Topic 606, a contract with a customer is an agreement which both parties have approved, that creates enforceable rights and obligations, has commercial substance, and specified payment terms, and for which collectability is probable. Once the Company has entered into a contract, it is evaluated to identify performance obligations. For each performance obligation, revenue is recognized as control of promised goods or services transfers to the customer in an amount that reflects the consideration the Company expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services. The amount of revenue recognized takes into account variable consideration, such as returns and volume rebates. A majority of the Company’s revenue is short cycle in nature with shipments within one year from order. The Company's payment terms generally range between 30 to 90 days. 



All of the Company’s revenue relates to contracts with customers. The Company’s accounting contracts are from purchase orders or purchase orders combined with purchase agreements. The majority of the Company’s revenue is recognized on a “point-in-time” basis and a nominal amount of revenue is recognized “over time”. For the sale of antenna products and test and measurement products, the Company satisfies its performance obligations generally at the time of shipment or upon delivery based on the contractual terms with its customers. For products shipped on consignment, the Company recognizes revenue upon delivery from the consignment location. For its test and measurement software tools, the Company has a performance obligation to provide software maintenance and support for one year. The Company recognizes revenues for the maintenance and support over this period.  



The Company considers shipping and handling performed by the Company as fulfillment activities. Amounts billed for shipping and handling are included in revenues, while costs incurred for shipping and handling are included in cost of revenues. The Company excludes taxes from the transaction price. Cost of contracts include sales commissions. The Company expenses the cost of contracts when incurred because the amortization period is one year or less. 



The Company allows its major distributors and certain other customers to return unused product under specified terms and conditions. The Company estimates product returns based on historical sales and return trends and records a corresponding refund liability. The refund liability was $0.1 million and $0.2 million at June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively, and is included within accrued liabilities in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheets. The Company records an asset based on historical experience for the amount of product it expects to return to inventory as a result of customer returns, which is recorded in inventories in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheets. The product return asset was $0.1 million at June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018. 



There were no contract assets at June 30, 2019 or December 31, 2018. The Company records contract liabilities for deferred revenue and customer prepayments. Contract liabilities are recorded in accrued liabilities in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheets. The contract liability was $0.3 million and $0.2 million at June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively. The Company recognized revenue of $0.1 million during the six months ended June 30, 2019 and June 30, 2018, respectively, related to contract liabilities at the beginning of the period. 









On August 7, 2019 the Board of Directors approved a transition plan for the Company’s China manufacturing operations. In order to optimize the cost structure of the antenna product line and increase our competitiveness, the Company will transition high-volume manufacturing from their Tianjin facility to contract manufacturers in China and elsewhere. The Company expects the transition to be substantially completed by the end of our 2020 fiscal year (the “Transition Period”) and expects to recognize cumulative pre-tax charges of approximately $1.0 million consisting of severance and other transition costs. It is expected that a total of approximately 140 positions, or approximately 35% of the Company’s full-time global workforce, will be eliminated over the course of the Transition Period. Approximately $0.9 million of severance costs will be paid in cash. Other non-cash costs associated with the transition to contract manufacturers include fixed asset dispositions estimated to be $0.1 million. The Company anticipates that these charges will be recognized as restructuring expenses during the third and fourth quarters of 2019. The Company expects the cash payments for employee separation costs to be made during the second half of 2019 and the first half of 2020. 





Item 1: Legal Proceedings 



We are the subject of various pending or threatened legal actions in the ordinary course of our business. All such matters are subject to many uncertainties and outcomes that are not predictable with assurance. In our opinion, as of June 30, 2019, there were no claims or litigation pending that would be reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or liquidity. 



Item 1A: Risk Factors 





Conducting business in foreign countries involves additional financial, operating, and regulatory risks. 





We have a manufacturing facility in Tianjin, China and an engineering design center in Beijing, China. All our Tianjin, China employees are represented by a labor union, and our employees in Beijing, China are represented by a separate labor union pursuant to the requirements of China’s National Labor Law. These two labor unions do not have collective bargaining rights. In order to optimize the cost structure of our antenna product line and increase our competitiveness, we have engaged several contract manufacturers over the last several years to manufacture certain antennas and we are in the process of transitioning the manufacturing of antenna products from our Tianjin facility to contract manufacturers in China and elsewhere. We expect the transition to be substantially completed by the end of our 2020 fiscal year (the “Transition Period”) and we expect to recognize cumulative pre-tax charges of approximately $1.0 million consisting of severance and other transition costs. It is expected that a total of approximately 140 positions, or approximately 35% of the Company’s entire full-time global workforce, will be eliminated over the course of the Transition Period at an aggregate cost of approximately $0.9 million. These separation costs will be paid in cash. Other non-cash costs associated with the transition to contract manufacturers include fixed asset dispositions estimated to be $0.1 million. We anticipate that these charges will be recognized as restructuring expenses during the third and fourth quarter of 2019. We expect to make cash payments for employee separation costs during the second half of 2019 and the first half of 2020.  



We expect to retain the lease on our Tianjin facility for manufacturing of lower-volume, highly-customized antenna products and for administration of remaining China operations with a workforce of approximately 65 personnel until the end of the facility’s current lease term in October 2020, and thereafter intends to continue such manufacturing activities to the extent that we are successful in negotiating an extension of the lease term at a reasonable cost.  



In the third quarter 2018, the Office of the United States Trade Representative imposed duties on certain Chinese imports containing industrially significant technologies, including certain PCTEL antenna and antenna components, and additional tariffs may be instituted. Tariffs impact the gross margin that we earn on sales of our products and have necessitated price increases. Furthermore, political uncertainty surrounding international trade disputes and protectionist measures may have a negative effect on customer confidence and spending. We will continue to monitor and adjust prices as necessary and as market conditions permit. The impact of the tariffs on our future revenue and profitability is uncertain. 



