fls.txt



item1.txt
References herein to “we,” “us,” “our,” the “company” and “Xerox” refer to Xerox Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries unless the context suggests otherwise.
The core principle of ASC Topic 606 is to recognize revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services.
ASC Topic 606 defines a five-step process to recognize revenue and requires more judgment and estimates within the revenue recognition process than required under previous U.S. GAAP, including identifying performance obligations in the contract, estimating the amount of variable consideration to include in the transaction price and allocating the transaction price to each separate performance obligation.
Under ASC Topic 606, based on the nature of our contracts and consistent with prior practice, we recognize revenue upon invoicing the customer for the large majority of our revenue.
Additionally, the unit of accounting, that is, the identification of performance obligations, is consistent with prior revenue recognition practice.
These revenues, which are approximately $50 annually, relate to certain analyst services performed in connection with the installation of equipment that are being considered part of the equipment sale performance obligation in 2018.
As a result of this change, $9 and $20 of revenue was recorded, for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively, as Sales, which would have been previously recorded as Services revenue in prior periods.
However, as a result of the contract cost guidance included in ASC Topic 606 and ASC Topic 340-40 "Contracts with Customers", upon adoption, we recorded a transition asset of $153, and a net of tax increase of $117 to Retained earnings, related to the incremental cost to obtain contracts.
Substantially all of this adjustment is related to the deferral of sales commissions paid to sales people and agents in connection with the placement of equipment with post sale service arrangements.
Revenue is measured based on consideration specified in a contract with a customer and is recognized when we satisfy a performance obligation by transferring control of a product to a customer or in the period the customer benefits from the service.
As a result of the application of this practical expedient for the substantial portion of our revenue, the disclosure of the value of unsatisfied performance obligations for our services is not required.
Significant judgments primarily include the identification of performance obligations in our Document management services arrangements as well the pattern of delivery for those services.


item2.txt
We refer to this analysis as "constant currency", “currency impact” or “the impact from currency.” This impact is calculated by translating current period activity in local currency using the comparable prior year period's currency translation rate.
We do not hedge the translation effect of revenues or expenses denominated in currencies where the local currency is the functional currency.
Refer to Note 18 - Contingencies and Litigation and Note 19 - Fuji Xerox Transaction and Recent Developments in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to this terminated transaction and related matters.
In 2018, in connection with the completion of the audits of Fuji Xerox’s fiscal year-end financial statements as of and for the years ended March 31, 2016 and 2017, as well as the review of Fuji Xerox’s unaudited interim financial statements as of and for the nine months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, additional adjustments and misstatements were identified.
These additional adjustments and misstatements were to the previously reported Net income of Fuji Xerox for the period from 2010 through 2017 and are incremental to the items identified by the IIC noted above.
In certain instances, some of the adjustments related to inappropriate accounting and reporting practices in the Fuji Xerox Asia Pacific subsidiaries and are further evidence of inadequate management oversight and an insufficient entity level monitoring system for financial statements of subsidiaries beyond what was previously identified by the IIC.
The decrease in Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 as compared to the prior year periods was primarily due to Transaction and related costs, net and lower revenues.
The decrease in Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the six months ended June 30, 2018 was also negatively impacted by lower Equity in net income from unconsolidated affiliates, which included our share of a significant restructuring charge recorded by Fuji Xerox and Income tax expense.
The decrease in adjusted1 Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 as compared to the prior year periods was primarily related to lower revenues, partially offset by the continued benefits of cost savings and productivity improvements, as well as gains from the sale of non-core assets.
The decrease in adjusted1 Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the six months ended June 30, 2018 was also impacted by lower Equity in net income from unconsolidated affiliates, which included an out of period adjustment recorded during the first quarter 2018, as well as higher income taxes.
Operating cash flow from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the six months ended June 30, 2018 was $451 million, as compared to $413 million for the prior year period.


item4.txt
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 13, 2018.
See SEC File Number 001-04471.
10.1 Director Appointment, Nomination and Settlement Agreement, dated as of May 13, 2018, by and among Registrant, Darwin Deason, the persons and entities listed on Schedule A thereto, William Curt Hunter, Jeffrey Jacobson, Robert J. Keegan, Charles Prince, Ann N. Reese, Stephen H. Rusckowski, Sara Martinez Tucker, Gregory Q.


part2.txt
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 13, 2018.
See SEC File Number 001-04471.
10.1 Director Appointment, Nomination and Settlement Agreement, dated as of May 13, 2018, by and among Registrant, Darwin Deason, the persons and entities listed on Schedule A thereto, William Curt Hunter, Jeffrey Jacobson, Robert J. Keegan, Charles Prince, Ann N. Reese, Stephen H. Rusckowski, Sara Martinez Tucker, Gregory Q.
See SEC File Number 001-04471.


