Financial Statements.</b>
necessary for a fair presentation of the financial statements.
products or services.
by agreed upon shipping terms.
the sale of custom products or research and development contracts with third parties.
of time rather than a point in time.
right to payment for performance completed to date.
a period of time using costs incurred as the measurement of progress towards completion.
the performance obligation by transferring goods or services.
and contract research and development contracts are satisfied in one year or less.
duration of one year or less.
performance obligations.
Pursuant to SEC Final Rule Releases No.
and Nos.
immediately.
narrow amendments to clarify how to apply certain aspects of the new lease standard.
our only lease is the lease for our facility.
liabilities a right-of-use asset of $261,644 as of April 1, 2019.
and right-of-use asset exclude non-lease components.
which clarifies codification and corrects unintended application of the guidance.
at amortized cost basis to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected.
Net income per diluted share amounts assume exercise of all stock options.
as available-for-sale securities and carried at estimated fair value.
maturities greater than one year are classified as long-term.
including money market funds, to be cash equivalents.
approximately 71% of our total assets.
prescribe required disclosures about fair-value measurements.
sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability.
in pricing an asset or liability.
a valuation hierarchy for disclosure of fair value measurements.
to the fair value measurement.
to declines in credit quality.
to hold until maturity.
quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019.
of the reporting date.
a non-cancellable lease through December 31, 2020.
over the lease term.
of additional repurchases.
of the reform act.
or estimated by us in the forward-looking statements.
on electron spin rather than electron charge to acquire, store and transmit information.
administrative expense.
compared to $4,333,847 for the prior-year quarter.
the prior-year quarter.
period was due to decreased purchase volumes by existing customers.
general, and administrative expense.
partially offset by a decrease in net income.
used in financing activities.
securities.
the period covered by this Report.
involved in litigation.
