ending March 31, 2018. The adoption did not have a significant impact on our financial
expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. It also requires
those fiscal years, which will be fiscal 2019 for us. We plan to adopt the guidance
prior financial statements presented. Based on an evaluation, we do not expect
to change the manner or timing of recognizing revenue. We have evaluated each
of our revenue streams, product sales and contract research and development. We
our performance obligations as the products are shipped. We recognize contract
completion. We are currently evaluating the impact of new disclosure requirements
period. Net income per diluted share amounts assume exercise of all stock options.
common stock. The following tables show the components of diluted
greater than one year are classified as long-term. The fair value of our marketable
their reelection to our Board. We calculate the share-based compensation expense
using the Black-Scholes standard option-pricing model. The increase in stock-based
2018. These benefits were partially offset by a one-time $206,693 unfavorable
interest related to uncertain tax positions. The tax years 1999 and 2013 through
required disclosures about fair-value measurements. Generally accepted accounting
an asset or liability. Generally accepted accounting principles utilize a valuation
to the fair value measurement. The categories within the valuation hierarchy are
securities, which are classified as available-for-sale. On the balance sheets,
are unobservable inputs or valuation techniques. We do not have any financial
Reform Act of 1995. These statements are subject to the safe harbor provisions
of the reform act. Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of
or estimated by us in the forward-looking statements. We have attempted to identify,
quarter was primarily due to decreased purchases by existing customers. The increase
in research and development expense. The decrease in selling, general, and administrative
taxes for the quarter, compared to 32.3% in the prior-year quarter. The decrease
increase was due to a 33% increase in contract research and development revenue.
in selling, general, and administrative expense. The decrease in selling, general,
and administrative expense was primarily due to decreased sales commissions. The
taxes for the first nine months of fiscal 2018, compared to 32.2% in the prior-year
period. The decreased rate was due to a decrease in the Federal tax rate with
in net cash provided by operating activities. We currently believe our working
to shareholders. In addition to dividends paid in the first nine months of fiscal
quarterly dividend of $1.00 per share of common stock, or $4,842,010 based on
from maturities and sales of marketable securities. All future dividends will
significantly increasing risk. To achieve this objective, we maintain our portfolio
obligations, corporate obligations, and money market funds. Short-term and long-term
approximately 85% of our total assets. We have not used derivative financial instruments
the period covered by this Report. This evaluation included consideration of the
disclosure. Based on such evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
involved in litigation. At this time we are not aware of any material pending
2018 and changed certain other provisions. We expect the new law to significantly
