rules and regulations. In the opinion of management, these financial statements
products or services. Revenue is disaggregated into product sales and contract
contracts with third parties. We recognize any such commissions as selling, general,
of time rather than a point in time. Contracts have specifications unique to each
a period of time using costs incurred as the measurement of progress towards completion.
a customer but have not completed our performance obligation. A contract liability
the performance obligation by transferring goods or services. We had no material
and contract research and development contracts are satisfied in one year or less.
performance obligations. We also use the practical expedient in which we do not
which will be fiscal 2021 for us. Early adoption is permitted for the removed
disclosures and delayed adoption is permitted until fiscal 2021 for the new disclosures.
We adopted ASU 2018-13 early, effective the quarter ended September 30, 2018.
the new disclosures on a prospective basis. The adoption did not have a significant
those fiscal years, which will be fiscal 2020 for us. Early adoption is permitted,
and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows.
of the investee. The amendment provides clarity on the measurement methodology
expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. It also requires
which clarifies codification and corrects unintended application of the guidance.
at amortized cost basis to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected.
fiscal years, which will be fiscal 2021 for us. We do not expect adoption of the
lease liabilities on the balance sheet of lessees. In July 2018, the FASB issued
at the earliest comparative period presented in its financial statements. We expect
period. Net income per diluted share amounts assume exercise of all stock options.
as available-for-sale securities and carried at estimated fair value. Unrealized
including money market funds, to be cash equivalents. Gains and losses on marketable
prescribe required disclosures about fair-value measurements. Generally accepted
in pricing an asset or liability. Generally accepted accounting principles utilize
a valuation hierarchy for disclosure of fair value measurements. The categorization
to the fair value measurement. The categories within the valuation hierarchy are
to declines in credit quality. When evaluating for impairment we assess indicators
to hold until maturity. Because we believe it is more likely than not we will
fiscal 2018. Stock-based compensation expenses were due to the automatic issuance
their reelection to our Board. We calculate the share-based compensation expense
using the Black-Scholes standard option-pricing model. The increase in stock-based
of additional repurchases. We did not repurchase any
2018. The remaining authorization was $4,540,806
Reform Act of 1995. These statements are subject to the safe harbor provisions
of the reform act. Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of
to in this Report or in the documents incorporated by reference in this Report.
general, and administrative expense. The increase in research and development
expense was due to an increase in new product development activities. The decrease
taxes for the quarter, compared to 28% in the prior-year quarter. The decreased
to a 57% decrease in contract research and development revenue. The decrease in
in selling, general, and administrative expense. The increase in research and
development expense was due to an increase in new product development activities.
period. The decrease was due to the effect of a decrease in the Federal tax rate
offset by $14,310,090 of cash used in financing activities. We currently believe
from maturities and sales of marketable securities. All future dividends will
the period covered by this Report. This evaluation included consideration of the
disclosure. Based on such evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
involved in litigation. At this time we are not aware of any material pending
