Financial Statements.</b>
necessary for a fair presentation of the financial statements.
products or services.
by agreed upon shipping terms.
the sale of custom products or research and development contracts with third parties.
of time rather than a point in time.
right to payment for performance completed to date.
a period of time using costs incurred as the measurement of progress towards completion.
the performance obligation by transferring goods or services.
and contract research and development contracts are satisfied in one year or less.
duration of one year or less.
performance obligations.
narrow amendments to clarify how to apply certain aspects of the new lease standard.
2019.
Currently our only lease is the lease for our facility.
of leased liabilities and a right-of-use asset of $261,644 as of April 1, 2019.
The leased liabilities and right-of-use asset exclude non-lease components.
which clarifies codification and corrects unintended application of the guidance.
at amortized cost basis to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected.
Net income per diluted share amounts assume exercise of all stock options.
as available-for-sale securities and carried at estimated fair value.
maturities greater than one year are classified as long-term.
including money market funds, to be cash equivalents.
prescribe required disclosures about fair-value measurements.
sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability.
in pricing an asset or liability.
a valuation hierarchy for disclosure of fair value measurements.
to the fair value measurement.
to declines in credit quality.
to hold until maturity.
of the reporting date.
a non-cancellable lease through December 31, 2020.
of additional repurchases.
of the reform act.
words or comparable terminology.
or estimated by us in the forward-looking statements.
on electron spin rather than electron charge to acquire, store and transmit information.
compared to $3,838,022 for the prior-year quarter.
by a decrease in net income.
used in financing activities.
securities.
the period covered by this Report.
involved in litigation.
