fls.txt
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 ("Securities Act") and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ("Exchange Act"). Forward-looking statements may generally be identified by the use of such words as "anticipate," "believe," “could,” "expect," "intend," “may,” "plan," "potential," "shall," "will," “would,” or variations of such words and similar expressions, or the negative of these terms. Specific forward-looking statements contained within this Form 10-Q include, but are not limited to, statements regarding (i) our beliefs regarding the Enterprise market, market dynamics and customer behavior as well as our position in the market, (ii) our beliefs regarding the Consumer market, our new product introductions and the expected effect of such introductions, (iii) our belief that our "as-a-service" offerings will benefit our growth long-term but their contribution will not be material in the near term, (iv) our intention to provide customer data insight through software and service solutions, (v) the Unified Communications ("UC") market, including adoption of UC products, our position, and timing and growth expectations in this market, (vi) our plans regarding our "as a service" offerings including sales and marketing efforts, (vii) our intentions regarding investments in long-term growth opportunities and our core research and development efforts, in particular in the UC market, (viii) our intentions regarding the focus of our sales, marketing and customer services and support teams on UC, (ix) the future of UC technologies, including the transition of businesses to UC-supported systems and the effects on headset adoption and use, enterprises that adopt UC and our revenue opportunity and profit growth, (x) our expenses, including research, development and engineering expenses and selling, general and administrative expenses, (xi) fluctuations in our cash provided by operating activities as a result of various factors, including fluctuations in revenues and operating expenses, timing of product shipments, accounts receivable collections, inventory and supply chain management, and the timing and amount of taxes and other payments, (xii) our future tax rate and payments related to unrecognized tax benefits, (xiii) our anticipated range of capital expenditures for the remainder of Fiscal Year 2018 and the sufficiency of our cash, cash equivalents, and cash from operations to sustain future operations and discretionary cash requirements, (xiv) our ability to pay future stockholder dividends, (xv) our ability to draw funds on our credit facility as needed, (xvi) the sufficiency of our capital resources to fund operations, and other statements regarding our future operations, financial condition and prospects, and business strategies. Such forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and assumptions and are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results and events to differ materially from such forward-looking statements are included, but not limited to, those discussed in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q; in Part I, "Item 1A. Risk Factors" of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on May 10, 2017; and other documents we have filed with the SEC. We undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as required by applicable law. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements.
We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, cash provided by operations, and the availability of additional funds under the Credit Agreement will be sufficient to fund operations for at least the next 12 months; however, any projections of future financial needs and sources of working capital are subject to uncertainty. Readers are cautioned to review the risks, uncertainties, and assumptions set forth in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, including the section entitled "Certain Forward-Looking Information" and the risk factors set forth in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, filed with the SEC on May 10, 2017, and other periodic filings with the SEC, any of which could affect our estimates for future financial needs and sources of working capital.


part2.txt
The Company is subject to taxation in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Act”). The changes included in the Tax Act are broad and complex. As rule making bodies and new legislation is enacted to interpret the Tax Act, these changes may adjust the estimates provided in this report. The changes may possibly be material, due to, among other things, the Treasury Department’s promulgation of regulations and guidance that interpret the Tax Act, corrective technical legislative amendments that may change the Tax Act, any changes in accounting standards for income taxes or related interpretations in response to the Tax Act, or any updates or changes to estimates the company has utilized to calculate the transition impacts, including impacts from changes to current year earnings estimates and foreign exchange rates of foreign subsidiaries. 
In addition, it is uncertain how each country where we do business may react to the Tax Act. Moreover, the evolving global tax landscape accompanying the adoption and guidance associated with the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting reporting requirements (“BEPS") recommended by the G8, G20 and Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development ("OECD") may require us to make adjustments to our financial results. As these and other tax laws and related regulations change, our financial results could be materially impacted. Given the unpredictability of these possible changes, it is difficult to assess whether the overall effect of these potential tax changes would be positive or negative for our earnings and cash flow, but such changes could adversely impact our financial results.


