fls.txt
Actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
On December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our content delivery and storage business (the “Content Delivery business”) and other related assets to Vecima Networks, Inc. (“Vecima”) pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of October 13, 2017, between the Company and Vecima.
Substantially all liabilities associated with the Content Delivery business were assigned to Vecima as part of the transaction.
The Content Delivery business consisted of (1) software, hardware and services for intelligently streaming video content to a variety of consumer devices and storing and managing content in the network and (2) Aquari™ Storage, a unified scale-out storage solutions product that is ideally suited for a wide range of enterprise IT and video applications that require advanced performance, very large storage capacities, and a high degree of reliability.
These real-time products were sold to a wide variety of companies seeking high performance, real-time computer solutions in the defense, aerospace, financial and automotive markets around the world.
These condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017 filed with the SEC on September 20, 2017.
The Company determines the appropriate classification of its investments in debt and equity securities at the time of purchase and reevaluates such determinations at each balance sheet date.
Debt securities are classified as held-to-maturity when the Company has the positive intent and ability to hold the securities to maturity.
Debt securities for which the Company does not have the intent or ability to hold to maturity are classified as available-for-sale.
Held-to-maturity securities are recorded as either short term or long term in the condensed consolidated balance sheet based on contractual maturity date and are stated at amortized cost.
Marketable securities that are bought and held principally for the purpose of selling them in the near term are classified as trading securities and are reported as fair value, with unrealized gains and losses recognized in earnings.
Debt and marketable equity securities not classified as held-to-maturity or as trading, are classified as available-for-sale, and are carried at fair market value, with the unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, included in the determination of comprehensive income (loss) and reported in stockholders’ equity.
For accounting and financial reporting purposes, businesses are generally comprised of three elements; inputs, processes, and outputs.
The issuance of ASU 2017-01 provides a clarifying screen to determine when a set of assets and activities is not a business.
Primarily, the screen requires that when substantially all of the fair value of the gross assets acquired is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or group of similar identifiable assets, the set is not a business.
The amendments contained in ASU 2017-01 are effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017 and may be early adopted for certain transactions that have occurred before the effective date, but only when the underlying transaction has not been reported in the financial statements that have been issued or made available for issuance.
Basic net income (loss) per share is computed by dividing net income (loss) by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during each period.
Under the treasury stock method, incremental shares representing the number of additional common shares that would have been outstanding if the dilutive potential common shares had been issued are included in the computation.


item2.txt
References herein to “CCUR Holdings,” the “Company,” “we,” “our” or “us” refer to CCUR Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries unless the context specifically indicates otherwise.
References to our Form 10-K made throughout this document refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017 as filed with the SEC on September 20, 2017.
On December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our Content Delivery business to Vecima.
In May 2017, we sold our Real-Time business to the RT Purchaser.
The Real-Time business provided real-time Linux operating system variants, development and performance optimization tools, simulation software and other system software combined, in many cases, with computer platforms and services.
Prior to the sale, we sold our Real-Time business products to a wide variety of companies seeking high performance, real-time computer solutions in the defense, aerospace, financial and automotive markets around the world.
Having divested both our Real-Time and Content Delivery businesses, we are now in the process of evaluating opportunities intended to maximize the value of our remaining assets, which consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents, available-for-sale investments, escrow funds receivable, and approximately $56 million in U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards.


item3.txt



item4.txt
The term “disclosure controls and procedures,” as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act, means controls and other procedures of a company that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms.


part2.txt
Moreover, the OTCQB is not a stock exchange, and trading of securities on the OTCQB is often more sporadic than the trading of securities listed on a stock exchange like the Nasdaq Stock Market or New York Stock Exchange.
In order to have our common stock resume trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market or another exchange, we will need to reapply to Nasdaq or such other exchange to have our stock listed.
The application process can be lengthy, and there is no assurance that Nasdaq or such other exchange will relist our common stock.
On March 5, 2018, we announced that our Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of up to 1 million shares of the Company’s common stock.


