fls.txt
Actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
On December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our content delivery and storage business (the “Content Delivery business”) and other related assets to Vecima Networks, Inc. (“Vecima”) pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of October 13, 2017, between the Company and Vecima.
Substantially all liabilities associated with the Content Delivery business were assigned to Vecima as part of the transaction.
Content delivery solutions consisted of software, hardware and services for intelligently streaming video content to a variety of consumer devices and storing and managing content in the network.
These real-time products were sold to a wide variety of companies seeking high performance, real-time computer solutions in the defense, aerospace, financial and automotive markets around the world.
Prior year information has been adjusted to conform with the current year presentation.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included herein have been prepared by the Company pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).
In the opinion of management, all adjustments of a normal recurring nature which were considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included.
The results of operations for the three and six months ended December 31, 2017 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the entire year.
These condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017 filed with the SEC on September 20, 2017.
ASU 2016-02 requires a lessee to recognize a lease liability for the obligation to make lease payments and a right-to-use asset for the right to use the underlying asset for the lease term.
We are currently evaluating the effect that ASU 2016-02 will have on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
Primarily, the screen requires that when substantially all of the fair value of the gross assets acquired is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or group of similar identifiable assets, the set is not a business.
The amendments contained in ASU 2017-01 are effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017 and may be early adopted for certain transactions that have occurred before the effective date, but only when the underlying transaction has not been reported in the financial statements that have been issued or made available for issuance.
Basic net income (loss) per share is computed by dividing net income (loss) by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during each period.
Diluted net income (loss) per share is computed by dividing net income (loss) by the weighted average number of shares, including dilutive common share equivalents outstanding during each period.
Due to the loss from continuing operations for all periods presented, common share equivalents of 315,771 and 267,481 for the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, and common share equivalents of 322,570 and 265,845 for the six months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively,were excluded from the calculation as their effect was anti-dilutive.


item2.txt
References to our Form 10-K made throughout this document refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017 as filed with the SEC on September 20, 2017.
The Real-Time business provided real-time Linux operating system variants, development and performance optimization tools, simulation software and other system software combined, in many cases, with computer platforms and services.
Having divested both our Real-Time and Content Delivery businesses, we are now in the process of evaluating opportunities intended to maximize the value of our remaining assets, which consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents, short term investments, escrow funds receivable, and approximately $ 56 million in U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards.
On December 31, 2017 we entered into a Separation and Consulting Agreement and General Release of Claims with Derek Elder, whereby Mr. Elder’s role as president and chief executive officer of the Company terminated and he ceased to be a member of our Board of Directors and all committees thereof, effective on December 31, 2017.
Mr. Elder’s separation from the Company did not involve any disagreement with the Board of Directors, the Company or its management on any matter relating to the Company’s operations, policies or practices.
In addition, as described more fully in Item 1, Section 12 herein, on December 31, 2017, an independent member of our Board of Directors, Robert Pons, tendered his resignation from the Board of Directors and all committees thereof.


item3.txt



item4.txt
The term “disclosure controls and procedures,” as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act, means controls and other procedures of a company that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms.


part2.txt
Except as discussed below, there have been no material changes to our risk factors as previously disclosed.
In addition, $1.45 million of the purchase price payable by Vecima at closing has been placed into escrow and is subject to loss, in whole or in part after the closing, if Vecima successfully asserts claims for indemnification pursuant to the indemnification provisions of the CDN APA.
Furthermore, we may have unforeseen liabilities and expenses that must be satisfied from the after-tax net proceeds of the Content Delivery business sale, leaving less to fund our remaining operations.
In addition, $2 million of the purchase price payable by the RT Purchaser at closing of the sale of the Real-Time business was placed into escrow and remains subject to loss, in whole or in part, if the RT Purchaser successfully asserts claims for indemnification pursuant to the indemnification provisions of the Real-Time APA.
Stockholders are not guaranteed any of the proceeds from the sales of the Content Delivery and Real-Time businesses.


