fls.txt
Actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
Substantially all liabilities associated with the Content Delivery business were assigned to Vecima as part of the transaction.
Results of the Content Delivery business are retrospectively reported as discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for all periods presented.
Unless otherwise stated, the information disclosed in the footnotes accompanying the consolidated financial statements refers to continuing operations.
During the first quarter of our fiscal year 2019 we created Recur Holdings LLC (“Recur Holdings”), a Delaware limited liability company wholly owned by the Company.
On February 13, 2019, through our newly formed subsidiary, LM Capital Solutions, LLC (“LMCS”), we closed on a purchase agreement (the “Purchase Agreement”) to acquire the operating assets of LuxeMark Capital, LLC (“LuxeMark”).
Through LMCS, we (i) continue to operate the LuxeMark syndication network by sourcing syndication funding for MCA originators and providing reporting and other administrative services in exchange for a syndication fee, (ii) directly purchase participation interests from MCA originators for LMCS’ own MCA portfolio and (iii) provide loans to MCA originators to fund the MCAs themselves, which generates interest income and syndication fee income from servicing those MCAs.
The accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements included herein have been prepared by the Company pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).
These consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018 filed with the SEC on September 7, 2018.
The Company allocates the purchase price of the acquisition to the tangible assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and identifiable intangible assets acquired based on their estimated fair values.
The excess of the purchase price over those fair values is recorded as goodwill.
After the measurement period, which could be up to one year after the transaction date, subsequent adjustments are recorded to the Company’s consolidated statements of operations.
The Company recognizes the fair value of contingent consideration as of the acquisition date as part of the consideration transferred in exchange for an acquired business.
The fair value of the contingent consideration is recorded as a liability and remeasured each accounting period, with any resulting change being recorded as an operating income or loss item within the statement of operations.


item2.txt
References herein to “CCUR Holdings,” the “Company,” “we,” “us” or “our” refer to CCUR Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the context specifically indicates otherwise.
On December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our content delivery and storage business (the “Content Delivery business”) and other related assets to Vecima Networks, Inc. (“Vecima”) pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement (the “CDN APA”), dated as of October 13, 2017, between the Company and Vecima.
The Investment Committee, a special sub-committee of the Company’s Board of Directors (the “Board of Directors” or the “Board”), was established in December 2017 upon the signing of the CDN APA for the purpose of considering alternative means to deploy the proceeds of the sale of the Content Delivery business and other corporate assets to maximize long-term value for our stockholders.
The Asset Management Committee, among other things, continues the work of the former Investment Committee by providing oversight of the Company’s acquisition process and also manages the Company’s ongoing operations and assets (including continued expansion and development of its real estate and merchant cash advance (“MCA”) operations) and those of any subsequently acquired businesses.
In February 2019, through our newly formed subsidiary, LM Capital Solutions, LLC (“LMCS”), we closed on a purchase agreement (the “Purchase Agreement”) to acquire the operating assets of LuxeMark Capital, LLC (“LuxeMark”).
The Company holds an 80% interest in LMCS, with the remaining 20% held by LuxeMark.
On January 1, 2019, upon the recommendation of the Compensation Committee of the Board, the Board adopted the 2019 CCUR Bonus Plan, also referred to herein as the “NAV Program,” pursuant to which certain employees of the Company have the opportunity, among other things, to earn cash and equity incentive awards through a program based on growth in the Company’s net asset value (“NAV”).
The NAV Program is subject to, and where applicable, governed by, the terms of the Company’s stock plan.
The consideration under the Purchase Agreement also includes four cash earnout payments of up to $1 million each year based on the performance of LMCS for the annual calendar periods of 2019 through 2022, in the aggregate not to exceed $4 million.
In addition, the Company has made available to LMCS a total of $10.35 million in debt financing for the purpose of allowing LMCS to fund MCA transactions through syndication funding of MCAs and loans to MCA originators.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 1A.Risk Factors Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018, except as noted below.
In December 2018, we acquired certain advance assets from an MCA originator and funder that is a leader in the MCA sector.
An MCA funder provides small businesses with cash advances in return for the purchase of an amount of the small business’s future receipts.
This business presents a number of unique risks, including the illiquidity of the cash advances; our critical reliance on certain individuals to operate the business; collection and cash advance repayment issues and challenges given that the MCAs are typically unsecured; and sensitivity to general economic conditions.
In addition, we may seek to restrict the percentage of our assets that are contained in illiquid real estate assets by seeking financing to continue expansion of our real estate operations while maintaining sufficient liquid assets to execute our business plan and invest in other value producing assets, including acquisition of additional businesses and assets.


