fls.txt
Actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
In May 2017, we sold our Real-Time business consisting of real-time Linux operating system versions, development and performance optimization tools, simulation software and other system software combined, in many cases, with computer platforms and services.
These real-time products were sold to a wide variety of companies seeking high performance, real-time computer solutions in the defense, aerospace, financial and automotive markets around the world.
On December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our content delivery and storage business (the “Content Delivery business”) and other related assets to Vecima Networks, Inc. (“Vecima”) pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of October 13, 2017, between the Company and Vecima.
Substantially all liabilities associated with the Content Delivery business were assigned to Vecima as part of the transaction.
Results of the Content Delivery business are retrospectively reported as discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for all periods presented.
In fiscal year 2018, following the sale of the Content Delivery business, we began developing a real estate operation initially through, among other things, making a number of commercial loans secured by real property.
Based on the success of these activities, including the yield characteristics of these loans, and management’s experience in the real estate area, we created Recur Holdings LLC, a Delaware limited liability company wholly owned by the Company, during the first quarter of our fiscal year 2019.
The accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements included herein have been prepared by the Company pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).
In the opinion of management, all adjustments of a normal recurring nature which were considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included.
The results of operations for the three months and six months ended December 31, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the entire year.
Debt securities are classified as held-to-maturity when the Company has the positive intent and ability to hold the securities to maturity.
Held-to-maturity securities are recorded as either short term or long term in the consolidated balance sheet based on contractual maturity date and are stated at amortized cost.
Debt securities not classified as held-to-maturity or as trading are classified as available-for-sale, and are carried at fair market value, with the unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, included in the determination of comprehensive income and reported in stockholders’ equity.


item2.txt
On December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our content delivery and storage business (the “Content Delivery business”) and other related assets to Vecima Networks, Inc. (“Vecima”) pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement (the “CDN APA”), dated as of October 13, 2017, between the Company and Vecima.
Substantially all assets and liabilities associated with the Content Delivery business were assigned to Vecima as part of the transaction.
Results of the Content Delivery business are retrospectively reflected as discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for all periods presented (see Note 3, “Discontinued Operations,” to the accompanying consolidated financial statements).
The Investment Committee, a special sub-committee of the Board, was established in December 2017 upon the signing of the CDN APA for the purpose of considering alternative means to deploy the proceeds of the sale of the Content Delivery business and other corporate assets to maximize long-term value for our stockholders.
Other than the restrictions set forth in the relevant non-competition and non-solicitation agreement executed by the Company in connection with the disposition of our prior operations, there are no restrictions on the transactions that we can pursue, including with respect to industry sector and geographic location.
We have received referrals with respect to and have performed due diligence assessments on multiple target companies and strategic opportunities in a variety of industries.
The acquisition and deployment of any remaining MCA capital are subject to a number of conditions including the negotiation of definitive documentation and completion of CCUR’s due diligence investigation to CCUR’s satisfaction.
We expect that the proposed transaction with LuxeMark will provide the Company with two revenue streams generated through (i) the Company’s 80% interest and thereby its pro-rated portion of the fee income earned by LuxeMark on its syndicators’ invested capital and (ii) returns received on funds the Company makes available as a LuxeMark syndicator or lender.
The allowance for credit losses for MCAs is established at the time of purchase through a provision for losses charged to our statement of operations based on historical performance experienced by a peer group.
Losses are charged against the allowance when management believes that the future collection of principal is unlikely.
Interest Income on Commercial Loans.


item4.txt



part2.txt
We are not presently involved in any material litigation.
There can be no assurance that we will complete the acquisition of an 80% interest in LuxeMark, which acquisition currently is under a non-binding letter of intent.
There can be no assurance that we will complete the acquisition of an 80% interest in LuxeMark as discussed under a non-binding letter of intent under the terms set forth in the letter of intent, or at all, because the letter of intent is not binding on us or on LuxeMark.
Our acquisition of such interest is subject to us negotiating and executing with LuxeMark a mutually acceptable definitive and binding purchase agreement with respect to the business, which we expect will contain a number of conditions to closing the acquisition, including (i) our completion of satisfactory due diligence with respect to LuxeMark’s business, and (ii) satisfaction of customary closing conditions and, dependent on the results of due diligence and negotiation of the definitive documents between the parties, may require material modifications to the terms set forth in the letter of intent.


