fls.txt
The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto, which appear elsewhere herein.


item1.txt
Through LMCS, we (i) continue to operate the Old LuxeMark syndication network by sourcing syndication funding for MCA originators and providing reporting and other administrative services in exchange for a syndication fee, (ii) directly purchase participation interests from MCA originators for LMCS’ own MCA portfolio and (iii) provide loans to MCA originators to fund the MCAs themselves, which generates interest income and syndication fee income from servicing those MCAs.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments of a normal recurring nature which were considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included.
We have the intent and ability to hold these loans to maturity or payoff and as such, have classified these loans as held-for-investment.
These loans are reported on the balance sheet at the outstanding principal balance adjusted for any charge-offs, allowance for loan losses, and deferred fees or costs.
As of September 30, 2019, we have not recorded any charge-offs, and believe that an allowance for loan losses is not required.
Land investment assets are stated at acquired cost.
Diluted earnings (loss) per share is computed by dividing net income (loss) by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding including dilutive common share equivalents.
Under the treasury stock method, incremental shares representing the number of additional common shares that would have been outstanding if the dilutive potential common shares had been issued are included in the computation.
Weighted-average common share equivalents of 9,757 and 31,665 for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, were excluded from the calculation, as their effect would have been anti-dilutive.
·Level 3 Assets or liabilities for which fair value is based on valuation models with significant unobservable pricing inputs and which include the use of management estimates.
All investments with original maturities of more than three months are classified as available-for-sale, trading or held-to-maturity investments.
Interest on securities is recorded in interest income.
Dividends paid by securities are recorded in dividend income.
We also use Level 3 inputs to determine the fair value of our contingent consideration and common stock purchase warrants related to the LuxeMark Acquisition.
This technique is a probabilistic model which relies on repeated random sampling to obtain numerical results.
The new guidance changes the current accounting guidance related to the recognition of lease assets and lease liabilities.
The recent accounting guidance not yet adopted is consistent with the information provided in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019.


item2.txt
The Company began developing its real estate operations during the second half of fiscal year 2018.
Based on the success of these activities, including the yield characteristics of these loans, access to a consistent volume of attractive real estate transactions, and management’s experience in the real estate industry, we created Recur, a Delaware limited liability company wholly owned by the Company, during the first quarter of our fiscal year 2019.
MCA revenue includes income from the discount at which we provide advances on future merchant receivables, as well as fees earned for sourcing both syndication capital and merchant leads for MCA funders.
We generate revenue from interest on loans by entering into commercial loan agreements to fund third party funders in the MCA industry and real estate industry.
Additionally, we earn payment-in-kind (“ PIK”) interest from one of our debt securities whereby interest is paid in the form of an increase in the commitment value due from the debt security issuer on the maturity date.
During the three months ended September 30, 2019, we generated $1.7 million of total revenue, compared to $0.1 million in the quarter ended September 30, 2018, driven largely by the growth in our participation in the MCA industry.
Our net income for the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 increased to $3.5 million, compared to a loss of $3.0 thousand in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019.
We generated $1.7 million of revenue from MCA operations during the three months ended September 30, 2019, compared to $0 in the during the three months ended September 30, 2018.
Of that revenue, $0.8 million of revenue came from MCAs and $0.6 million of revenue was generated from syndication fee revenue from sourcing syndication capital and merchant leads for the MCA industry.
We generated $0.1 million of revenue from real estate operations during the three months ended September 30, 2019, compared to $0.1 million during the three months ended September 30, 2018.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 1A.Risk Factors Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019.


