Our products bring a number of important benefits to the power-conversion market compared with less advanced alternatives, including reduced component count and design complexity, smaller size, higher reliability and reduced time-to-market. Our products also improve the energy efficiency of power converters, helping our customers meet the increasingly stringent efficiency standards that have been adopted around the world for many electronic products, and improving the efficacy of renewable-energy systems, electric vehicles and other high-power applications.
•Increase our penetration of the markets we serve. We currently address AC-DC applications with power outputs up to approximately 500 watts, gate-driver applications of approximately ten kilowatts and higher, and motor-drive applications up to approximately 300 watts. Through our research and development efforts, we seek to introduce more advanced products for these markets offering higher levels of integration and performance compared to earlier products. We also continue to expand our sales and application-engineering staff and our network of distributors, as well as our offerings of technical documentation and design-support tools and services to help customers use our products. These tools and services include our PI Expert™ design software, which we offer free of charge, and our transformer-sample service.
Our market-penetration strategy also includes capitalizing on the importance of energy efficiency and renewable energy in the power conversion market. For example, our EcoSmart™ technology drastically reduces the amount of energy consumed by electronic products when they are not in use, helping our customers comply with regulations that seek to curb this so-called “standby” energy consumption. Also, our gate-driver products are critical components in energy-efficient DC motor drives, high-voltage DC transmission systems, solar and wind energy systems and electric transportation applications.
•Increase the size of our addressable market. Prior to 2010 our addressable market consisted of AC-DC applications with up to about 50 watts of output, a served available market (“SAM”) opportunity of approximately $1.5 billion. Since that time we have expanded our SAM to approximately $4 billion through a variety of means. These include the introduction of products that enable us to address higher-power AC-DC applications (such as our Hiper™ product families), the introduction of LED-driver products, and our entry into the gate-driver market through the acquisition of CT-Concept Technologie AG in 2012. In 2016 we introduced the SCALE-iDriverTM family of gate-driver ICs, broadening the range of gate-driver applications we can address. In 2018 we introduced our BridgeSwitch™ motor-driver ICs, as described above.
Also contributing to our SAM expansion has been the emergence of new applications within the power ranges that our products can address. For example, applications such as “smart” utility meters, battery-powered lawn equipment and bicycles, and USB power receptacles (installed alongside traditional AC wall outlets) can incorporate our products. The increased use of electronic intelligence and connectivity in consumer appliances has also enhanced our SAM. Finally, we have enhanced our SAM by increasing the level of integration of our products, which in turn increases their value. For example, our InnoSwitch™ ICs integrate circuitry from the secondary, or low-voltage, side of AC-DC power supplies, whereas earlier product families integrated circuitry only on the primary, or high-voltage side.
We intend to continue expanding our SAM in the years ahead through all of the means described above.
Our net revenues were $114.2 million and $110.1 million in the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $306.2 million and $322.6 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The increase in the three month period was due primarily to growth in the communications end market, driven by increased demand for our products in cellphone chargers. This growth was partially offset by a broad-based decline in demand across the consumer and industrial end markets resulting from global trade disputes. Net revenues decreased in the nine-month period as the broad-based decline in demand across the consumer and industrial end markets outweighed growth in the communications end market.
Our top ten customers, including distributors that resell to original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, and merchant power supply manufacturers, accounted for 55% and 54% of our net revenues in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, and 56% and 57% of net revenues in each of the respective corresponding periods of 2018. Our top customer, a distributor of our products, accounted for approximately 11% of our net revenues in each of the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, and 14% in each of the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018. International sales accounted for 97% of our net revenues in each of the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 96% of net revenues in each of the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018.
Our gross margin for each of the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 was 51%, and was 52% in each of the corresponding periods of 2018. The decrease in gross margin was due primarily to increased wafer substrate costs along with an unfavorable change in end-market mix, with a greater percentage of revenues coming from lower-margin end-markets.
Total operating expenses were $40.6 million and $39.0 million in the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $121.8 million and $119.2 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The increases were due primarily to higher salary and related expenses driven by the expansion of our workforce and by annual merit increases; also contributing to the increases were higher expenses related to patent litigation as well as equipment related expenses in support of our product-development efforts. These increases were partially offset by lower stock-based compensation expense related to performance-based awards.
of litigation expenses beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2020. Refer to Note 13, Legal Proceedings and Contingencies, in our Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, for information regarding the settlement.
Net revenues.  Net revenues consist of revenues from product sales, which are calculated net of returns and allowances. Net revenues for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 were $114.2 million and $306.2 million, respectively, and $110.1 million and $322.6 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods of 2018. The increase in the three month period was due primarily to growth in the communications end market, driven by increased demand for our products in cellphone chargers. This growth was partially offset by a broad-based decline in demand across the consumer and industrial end markets resulting from global trade disputes. Net revenues decreased in the nine-month period as the broad-based decline in demand across the consumer and industrial end markets outweighed the growth in the communications end market.
International sales, consisting of sales outside of the United States of America based on “bill to” customer locations, were $111.3 million and $298.1 million in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, and $105.6 million and $310.6 million, respectively, in the corresponding periods of 2018. Although power converters using our products are distributed to end markets worldwide, most are manufactured in Asia. As a result, sales to this region represented 77% of our net revenues in each of the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, and 77% in each of the corresponding periods of 2018. We expect international sales, and sales to the Asia region in particular, to continue to account for a large portion of our net revenues in the future.
Sales to distributors accounted for 68% and 73% of net revenues in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, and 76% in each of the corresponding periods of 2018. Direct sales to OEMs and power-supply manufacturers accounted for the remainder.
In each of the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, one customer, a distributor of our products, accounted for more than 10% of our net revenues.
 No other customers accounted for 10% or more of our net revenues in these periods.
Gross margin decreased in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, compared with the same period in the prior year, due primarily to increased wafer substrate costs along with an unfavorable change in end-market mix with a greater percentage of revenues coming from lower-margin end-markets.
Other income remained relatively constant for the three month periods. Other income increased in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 as compared to the same period in 2018 primarily due to an increase in interest income reflecting higher yields earned on our cash and investments. 
Operating activities generated cash of $42.3 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2019. Net income for this period was $35.2 million; we also incurred non-cash stock-based compensation expense, depreciation, amortization and deferred income taxes of $15.0 million, $14.3 million, $3.8 million and $1.3 million, respectively. Sources of cash also included a $1.1 million increase in taxes payable and accrued liabilities. These sources of cash were partially offset by a $14.8 million increase in accounts receivable due to increased customer shipments, a $7.9 million increase in inventories reflecting impact of a market slowdown during the first half of the year and anticipation of future demand, a $2.6 million decrease in accounts payable, excluding payables related to property and equipment, due primarily to the timing of payments, and a $3.0 million increase in prepaid expenses and other assets, primarily driven by prepaid legal fees, prepaid taxes and advances to suppliers.
Operating activities generated cash of $65.6 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2018. Net income for this period was $47.2 million; we also incurred non-cash stock-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization of $16.1 million, $14.4 million and $4.0 million, respectively. Sources of cash also included a $2.9 million decrease in accounts receivable due to the timing of cash receipts and a $2.6 million increase in accounts payable, excluding payables related to property and equipment, due primarily to the timing of payments. These sources of cash were partially offset by a $17.1 million increase in inventories, partially reflecting lower-than-normal inventory levels at the beginning of the year, but also driven by our decision to build inventory in order to capitalize on extended lead times and limited availability for certain competing products. Also offsetting the sources of cash was a $2.7 million increase in prepaid expenses and other assets, primarily driven by prepaid legal expenses and advances to suppliers.
Our investing activities in the nine months ended September 30, 2019, resulted in an $83.8 million net use of cash, primarily consisting of $69.1 million for purchases of marketable securities, net of sales and maturities, and $14.3 million for purchases of property and equipment, primarily production-related machinery and equipment. Our investing activities provided $69.3 million of cash in the nine months ended September 30, 2018, consisting of $89.3 million from sales and maturities of marketable securities, partially offset by $19.1 million for purchases of property and equipment, primarily production-related machinery and equipment.
Our financing activities in the nine months ended September 30, 2019, resulted in a $12.5 million net use of cash, consisting of $14.9 million for the payment of dividends to stockholders and $7.3 million for the repurchase of our common stock. These uses of cash were offset in part by $9.7 million from the issuance of common stock, including the exercise of employee stock options and the issuance of shares through our employee stock purchase plan. Our financing activities in the nine months ended September 30, 2018, resulted in an $80.0 million net use of cash, consisting of $74.4 million for the repurchase of our common stock and $14.2 million for the payment of dividends to stockholders. These uses of cash were offset in part by $8.6 million from the issuance of common stock, including the exercise of employee stock options and the issuance of shares through our employee stock purchase plan.
In January 2018, our board of directors declared four cash dividends in the amount of $0.16 per share to be paid to stockholders of record at the end of each quarter in 2018. We paid a total of $18.8 million in cash dividends in 2018. In January 2019, our board of directors declared four quarterly cash dividends in the amount of $0.17 per share to be paid to stockholders of record at the end of each quarter in 2019. Dividend payouts of $4.9 million, $5.0 million and $5.0 million occurred on March 29, 2019, June 28, 2019, and September 30, 2019, respectively. In October 2019, our board of directors raised the cash dividend per share with the declaration five cash dividends, consisting of (a) a dividend in the amount of $0.02 per share to be paid to stockholders of record at the end of the fourth quarter in 2019, which is in addition to the dividend in the amount of $0.17 per share to be paid to stockholders of record at the end of the fourth quarter in 2019 previously declared by the board in January 2019, and (b) a dividend in the amount of $0.19 per share to be paid to stockholders of record at the end of each quarter in 2020. The declaration of any future cash dividend is at the discretion of the board of directors and will depend on our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, business conditions and other factors, as well as a determination that cash dividends are in the best interests of our stockholders.
As of September 30, 2019, there were no material changes in our contractual commitments from those reported in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
As of September 30, 2019, we did not have any off-balance-sheet arrangements or relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which are typically established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes.
Information with respect to this item may be found in Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Pronouncements, in our Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1, of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, which information is incorporated herein by reference.
