See also “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” at the beginning of this report.
A large percentage of our products are ICs used in AC-DC power supplies, which convert the high-voltage AC from a wall outlet to the low-voltage DC required by most electronic devices.
Power supplies incorporating our products are used with all manner of electronic products including mobile phones, computing and networking equipment, appliances, electronic utility meters, power tools, industrial controls, and “smart-home,” or “internet of things” applications such as networked thermostats, power strips and other building-automation and security devices.
We also supply high-voltage LED drivers, which are AC-DC ICs specifically designed for lighting applications that utilize light-emitting diodes.
These combinations of switches and drivers are used for power conversion in high-power applications (i.e., power levels ranging from a few kilowatts up to one gigawatt) such as industrial motors, solar- and wind-power systems, electric vehicles and high-voltage DC transmission systems.
Our products also improve the energy efficiency of power converters, helping our customers meet the increasingly stringent efficiency standards that have been adopted around the world for many electronic products, and improving the efficacy of renewable-energy systems, electric vehicles and other high-power applications.
•Increase our penetration of the markets we serve.
We also continue to expand our sales and application-engineering staff and our network of distributors, as well as our offerings of technical documentation and design-support tools and services to help customers use our products.
These tools and services include our PI Expert™ design software, which we offer free of charge, and our transformer-sample service.
Our market-penetration strategy also includes capitalizing on the importance of energy efficiency in the power conversion market.
For example, our EcoSmart™ technology drastically reduces the amount of energy consumed by electronic products when they are not in use, helping our customers comply with regulations that seek to curb this so-called “standby” energy consumption.
Also, our gate-driver products are critical components in energy-efficient DC motor drives, high-voltage DC transmission systems, renewable-energy installations and electric transportation applications.
•Increase the size of our addressable market.
Prior to 2010 our addressable market consisted of AC-DC applications with up to about 50 watts of output, a served available market (“SAM”) opportunity of approximately $1.5 billion.
These include the introduction of products that enable us to address higher-power AC-DC applications (such as our Hiper™ product families), the introduction of LED-driver products, and our entry into the gate-driver market through the acquisition of CT-Concept Technologie AG in 2012.
In 2016 we introduced the SCALE-iDriverTM family of gate-driver ICs, broadening the range of gate-driver applications we can address.
In 2018 we introduced our BridgeSwitch™ motor-driver ICs, as described above.
Also contributing to our SAM expansion has been the emergence of new applications within the power ranges that our products can address.
For example, applications such as “smart” utility meters, battery-powered lawn equipment and bicycles, and USB power receptacles (installed alongside traditional AC wall outlets) can incorporate our products.
The increased use of electronic intelligence and connectivity in consumer appliances has also enhanced our SAM.
Finally, we have enhanced our SAM by increasing the level of integration of our products, which in turn increases their value.
For example, our InnoSwitch™ ICs integrate circuitry from the secondary, or low-voltage, side of AC-DC power supplies, whereas earlier product families integrated circuitry only on the primary, or high-voltage side.
We intend to continue expanding our SAM in the years ahead through all of the means described above.
Because we purchase a large percentage of our silicon wafers from foundries located in Japan, our gross margin is influenced by fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the Japanese yen.
Our net revenues were $102.9 million and $109.5 million in the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $192.1 million and $212.6 million in the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
These decreases were partially offset by growth in the communications and computer end markets, driven by increased demand for our products in cellphone and tablet chargers, respectively.
The decrease in the six-month period reflects a broad-based decline in demand across all end markets resulting from global trade disputes.
Our top ten customers, including distributors that resell to original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, and merchant power supply manufacturers, accounted for 56% and 54% of our net revenues in the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, and 59% and 58% of net revenues in each of the respective corresponding periods of 2018.
Our top customer, a distributor of our products, accounted for approximately 10% and 12% of our net revenues in the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, and 14% and 15% in the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively.
International sales accounted for 97% of our net revenues in each of the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 and 97% and 96% of net revenues in the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively.
Our gross margin was 50% and 51% in the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and 51% and 52% in the six months ended June 30, 2019, and 2018, respectively.
Total operating expenses were $41.8 million and $40.6 million in the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $81.2 million and $80.2 million in the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The increases were due primarily to higher salary and related expenses driven by the expansion of our workforce and by annual merit increases; also contributing to the increases were higher legal expenses in connection with our litigation with ON Semiconductor as well as equipment related expenses in support of our product-development efforts.
The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S.
On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those listed below.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates disclosed in “Item 7.
Net revenues consist of revenues from product sales, which are calculated net of returns and allowances.
This decrease was partially offset by growth in the communications and computer end markets, driven by increased demand for our products in cellphone and tablet chargers, respectively.
The decrease in the six month period reflects a broad-based decline in demand across all end markets resulting from global trade disputes.
International sales, consisting of sales outside of the United States of America based on “bill to” customer locations, were $100.3 million and $186.8 million in the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, and $105.8 million and $205.0 million, respectively, in the corresponding periods of 2018.
As a result, sales to this region represented 78% and 77% of our net revenues in the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, and 79% and 78%, respectively, in the corresponding periods of 2018.
We expect international sales, and sales to the Asia region in particular, to continue to account for a large portion of our net revenues in the future.
Direct sales to OEMs and power-supply manufacturers accounted for the remainder.
In each of the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, one customer, a distributor of our products, accounted for more than 10% of our net revenues.
 No other customers accounted for 10% or more of our net revenues in these periods.
Gross margin decreased in the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, compared with the same period in the prior year, due primarily to increased wafer substrate costs along with an unfavorable change in end-market mix with a greater percentage of revenues coming from lower-margin end-markets.
equipment related expenses; these increases were partially offset by lower stock-based compensation expense related to performance-based awards.
The increase in other income in the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 as compared to the same periods in 2018 was primarily due to an increase in interest income reflecting higher yields earned on our cash and investments.
Accordingly, the interim effective tax rate may not be reflective of the annual estimated effective tax rate.
Our effective tax rates for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 were 2.0% and 1.4%, respectively, and 6.8% and 5.5%, respectively, for the corresponding periods of 2018.
As of June 30, 2019, we had working capital, defined as current assets less current liabilities, of $304.7 million, an increase of approximately $20.6 million from $284.1 million as of December 31, 2018.
Operating activities generated cash of $20.5 million in the six months ended June 30, 2019.
Net income for this period was $18.1 million; we also incurred non-cash stock-based compensation expense, depreciation, amortization and deferred income taxes of $9.9 million, $9.4 million, $2.5 million and $1.7 million, respectively.
Sources of cash also included a $4.2 million increase in accounts payable, excluding payables related to property and equipment, due primarily to the timing of payments, and a $1.2 million increase in taxes payable and accrued liabilities.
These sources of cash were partially offset by a $14.5 million increase in accounts receivable due to the timing of customer shipments, an $8.3 million increase in inventory reflecting a combination of the recent market slowdown and anticipation of future demand, and a $3.6 million increase in prepaid expenses and other assets, primarily driven by prepaid taxes and advances to suppliers.
Net income for this period was $29.6 million; we also incurred non-cash stock-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization of $11.7 million, $9.7 million and $2.7 million, respectively.
These sources of cash were partially offset by an $11.7 million increase in inventory, reflecting anticipated demand, a $7.3 million decrease in accounts payable, excluding payables related to property and equipment, due primarily to the timing of payments, and a $1.4 million increase in prepaid expenses and other assets, primarily driven by prepaid taxes and maintenance agreements.
Our investing activities in the six months ended June 30, 2019, resulted in a $43.6 million net use of cash, primarily consisting of $35.0 million for purchases of marketable securities, net of sales and maturities, and $8.3 million for purchases of property and equipment, primarily production-related machinery and equipment.
Our investing activities provided $79.3 million of cash in the six months ended June 30, 2018, consisting of $90.4 million from sales and maturities of marketable securities, partially offset by $10.5 million for purchases of property and equipment, primarily production-related machinery and equipment.
These uses of cash were offset in part by $5.7 million from the issuance of common stock, including the exercise of employee stock options and the issuance of shares through our employee stock purchase plan.
Our financing activities in the six months ended June 30, 2018, resulted in a $67.2 million net use of cash, consisting of $63.4 million for the repurchase of our common stock and $9.5 million for the payment of dividends to stockholders.
These uses of cash were offset in part by $5.6 million from the issuance of common stock, including the exercise of employee stock options and the issuance of shares through our employee stock purchase plan.
We amended the Credit Agreement on April 30, 2018, to extend the termination date from July 26, 2019, to April 30, 2022, with all other terms remaining the same.
Our ability to borrow under the revolving line of credit is conditioned upon our compliance with specified covenants, including reporting and financial covenants, primarily a minimum liquidity measure and a debt to earnings ratio, with which we are currently in compliance.
The Credit Agreement terminates on April 30, 2022; all advances under the revolving line of credit will become due on such date, or earlier in the event of a default.
As of June 30, 2019, we had no amounts outstanding under our agreement.
In January 2018, our board of directors declared four cash dividends in the amount of $0.16 per share to be paid to stockholders of record at the end of each quarter in 2018.
We paid a total of $18.8 million in cash dividends in 2018.
In January 2019, our board of directors declared four quarterly cash dividends in the amount of $0.17 per share to be paid to stockholders of record at the end of each quarter in 2019. Dividend payouts of $4.9 million and $5.0 million occurred on March 29, 2019 and June 28, 2019, respectively.
The declaration of any future cash dividend is at the discretion of the board of directors and will depend on our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, business conditions and other factors, as well as a determination that cash dividends are in the best interests of our stockholders.
As of December 31, 2018, we had approximately $51.2 million remaining under our stock-repurchase program.
In the six months ended June 30, 2019 we repurchased approximately 121,000 shares of our common stock for approximately $7.3 million.
As of June 30, 2019, we had approximately $43.9 million remaining in our repurchase program, which has no expiration date.
As of June 30, 2019, there were no material changes in our contractual commitments from those reported in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
In that case, we may be forced to use our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, use our credit agreement or seek additional financing from third parties to fund our operations.
We believe that cash generated from operations, together with existing sources of liquidity, will satisfy our projected working capital and other cash requirements for at least the next 12 months.
As of June 30, 2019, we did not have any off-balance-sheet arrangements or relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which are typically established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes.
Information with respect to this item may be found in Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Pronouncements, in our Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1, of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, which information is incorporated herein by reference.
