Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio.
We consider cash invested in highly liquid financial instruments with a remaining maturity of three months or less at the date of purchase to be cash equivalents.
We invest in high-credit quality issuers and, by policy, limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer.
As stated in our policy, we seek to ensure the safety and preservation of our invested principal funds by limiting default risk, market risk and reinvestment risk.
We mitigate default risk by investing in safe and high-credit quality securities and by constantly positioning our portfolio to respond appropriately to a significant reduction in a credit rating of any investment issuer, guarantor or depository.
Our portfolio includes only marketable securities with active secondary or resale markets to facilitate portfolio liquidity.
At June 30, 2018, and December 31, 2017, we held primarily cash equivalents and short-term investments with fixed interest rates.
Our investment securities are subject to market interest rate risk and will vary in value as market interest rates fluctuate.
We monitor our investments per our above-mentioned investment policy; therefore, if market interest rates were to increase or decrease by 10% from interest rates as of June 30, 2018, or December 31, 2017, the increase or decrease in the fair market value of our portfolio on these dates would not have been material.
As of June 30, 2018, our primary transactional currency was U.S. dollars; in addition, we hold cash in Swiss francs and euro.
We maintain cash denominated in Swiss francs and euro to fund the operations of our Swiss subsidiary.
The foreign exchange rate fluctuation between the U.S. dollar versus the Swiss franc and euro is recorded in other income in our condensed consolidated statements of income.
certain foreign currency transactions.
As of June 30, 2018, and December 31, 2017, we did not have an open foreign currency hedge program utilizing foreign currency forward exchange contracts.
Two of our major suppliers, Epson and Lapis, have wafer supply agreements based in U.S. dollars; however, our agreements with Epson and Lapis also allow for mutual sharing of the impact of the exchange rate fluctuation between Japanese yen and the U.S. dollar on future purchases.
Each year, our management and these two suppliers review and negotiate future pricing; the negotiated pricing is denominated in U.S. dollars but is subject to contractual exchange rate provisions.
The fluctuation in the exchange rate is shared equally between us and each of these suppliers on future purchases.
Nevertheless, as a result of our above-mentioned supplier agreements, our gross margin is influenced by fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the Japanese yen.
