item1.txt
We derive revenue from the sale of integrated hardware and software, third-party service contracts, professional services, managed services, financing of hardware and software, and other services.
The Company is a principal if it controls the good or service before that good or service is transferred to the customer.
We record revenue as gross when the Company is a principal party to the arrangement and net of cost when we are acting as a broker or agent.
Under gross sales recognition, the entire selling price is recorded in revenue and our cost to the third-party service provider or vendor is recorded in cost of goods sold.
Under net sales recognition, the cost to the third-party service provider or vendor is recorded as a reduction to revenue resulting in net sales equal to the gross profit on the transaction.
Third-party service contracts are sold in different combinations with hardware, software, and services.
We have determined the third-party services contracts are a single performance obligation in each sale.
When the Company is an agent, revenue is typically recorded at a point in time.
When the Company is the principal, revenue is recognized over the contract term.
Professional services are considered a series of distinct services that form one performance obligation and revenue is recognized over time as services are performed.
Revenue generated from managed services is recognized over the term of the contract.
Certain managed services contracts include financing of hardware and software.
Revenues from arrangements which include financing are allocated considering relative standalone selling prices of lease and non-lease components within the agreement.
Other services generally include revenue generated through our royalty, extended warranty, multicomputer repair, and maintenance contracts.
Royalty revenue is sales-based and recognized on date of subsequent sale of the product, which occurs on the date of customer shipment.
Revenue from extended warranty contracts is recognized evenly over the period of the warranty.
Multicomputer repair services revenue is recognized upon control transfer when the customer takes possession of the computer at time of shipping.


item2.txt
Our revenues increased by approximately $1.6 million, or 8%, to $21.6 million for the three months ended June 30, 2019 as compared to $20.0 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018.
The increase in revenue is the result of an increase of $2.5 million in our TS segment, offset with a $0.9 million decrease in our HPP segment.
Operating income decreased by approximately $0.1 million from operating income of $0.2 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018 to operating income of $0.1 million for the three months ended June 30, 2019, primarily as a result decrease in gross margin percentage as a percent of revenue partially offset by a decrease in engineering and development expenses of $0.3 million.
Our revenues increased by approximately $1.6 million to $21.6 million for the three months ended June 30, 2019 as compared to $20.0 million of revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2018.
The increase in TS segment product revenues of $2.1 million during the period was primarily the result of an increase in product revenues of $3.3 million in our U.S. division, partially offset by a $1.2 million decrease of product revenue in our U.K. division.
The $1.2 million decrease in the U.K. division product revenues was primarily the result of several large orders in the prior year that were not repeated in the current year.
This was primarily due to a $0.5 million increase in the U.S. division service revenues partially offset by a $0.1 million decrease in the U.K. division.
The U.S. division service revenues $0.5 million increase was substantially the result of a $0.2 million increase in managed service contracts, an increase in third party maintenance and services revenues of $0.6 million, partially offset by a $0.3 million decrease in internal services.
The $3.0 million increase in revenue to the Americas is primarily the result of increased sales by our TS segment of $4.5 million partially offset by decreased sales by our HPP segment of $1.5 million.
The $2.3 million decrease in revenue to Europe is primarily the result of decreased sales by our TS segment of $2.2 million.
The overall HPP segment gross margin as a percentage of sales decreased to 56% for the three months ended June 30, 2019 from 69% for the three months ended June 30, 2018.
The 13% decrease in gross margin as a percentage of sales in the HPP segment was primarily attributed to a $0.8 million decrease in high margin royalty revenues within the overall product mix.


item4.txt
Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the company’s management, including its principal executive and principal financial officers, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.


