Pre-contract costs of $1 million were expensed during the six months ended August 2, 2019 and $2 million were expensed during the three and six months ended August 3, 2018, respectively. Fulfillment costs of $1 million and $2 million were amortized during the three and six months ended August 2, 2019, respectively. 
Aggregate changes in these estimates increased operating income by $4 million ($0.05 per diluted share) and $12 million ($0.16 per diluted share) for the three and six months ended August 2, 2019, respectively, increased operating income by $2 million ($0.03 per diluted share) for the three months ended August 3, 2018, and decreased operating income by $3 million ($0.05 per diluted share) for the six months ended August 3, 2018. Changes in these estimates increased net income by $3 million and $9 million for the three and six months ended August 2, 2019, respectively. In addition, revenues were $5 million and $14 million higher for the three and six months ended August 2, 2019, respectively, due to net revenue recognized from performance obligations satisfied in prior periods. 
Science Applications International Corporation (collectively, with its consolidated subsidiaries, the “Company”) is a leading provider of technical, engineering and enterprise information technology (IT) services primarily to the U.S. government. The Company provides engineering and integration services for large, complex projects and offers a broad range of services with a targeted emphasis on higher-end, differentiated technology services. The Company is organized as a matrix comprised of three customer facing operating segments supported by a solutions and technology group. Each of the Company’s three customer facing operating segments is focused on providing the Company’s comprehensive technical and enterprise IT service offerings to one or more agencies of the U.S. federal government. The Company's operating segments are aggregated into one reportable segment for financial reporting purposes.
On January 14, 2019, the Company completed the acquisition of Engility Holdings, Inc., a leading provider of integrated solutions and services supporting U.S. government customers in the defense, federal civilian, and intelligence and space communities. This strategic acquisition enables greater market and customer access, particularly in the intelligence and space communities, and enhances the Company's portfolio of capabilities, particularly in the area of systems engineering and integration. The acquisition enables acceleration of revenue growth through increased market and customer access, increased investment capacity, addition of cleared personnel and strategic alignment with key customers. The acquisition also enables increased profitability and cash generation with an improved margin profile and greater financial flexibility for investment and capital deployment. 
The Company's effective income tax rate was 23.3% and 21.6% for the three and six months ended August 2, 2019, respectively, and 23.1% and 17.2% for the three and six months ended August 3, 2018, respectively. The Company's effective tax rate was higher for the six months ended August 2, 2019 compared to the prior year period due principally to lower excess tax benefits related to employee share-based compensation. Tax rates for the periods ended August 2, 2019 were lower than the combined federal and state statutory rates due principally to excess tax benefits related to employee share-based compensation, research and development credits, partially offset by permanent book tax differences.
During the six months ended August 2, 2019 and August 3, 2018, the Company recognized revenues of $19 million and $9 million relating to amounts that were included in the opening balance of contract liabilities as of February 1, 2019 and February 3, 2018, respectively. $6 million in revenues were recognized for the three months ended August 2, 2019, relating to amounts that were included in the opening balance of contract liabilities - current as of February 1, 2019.
In addition to the described legal proceedings, we are routinely subject to investigations and reviews relating to compliance with various laws and regulations. Additional information regarding such investigations and reviews is included in our fiscal 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and we have also updated this information in Note 11 of the notes to the condensed and consolidated financial statements contained within this report, under the heading “Government Investigations, Audits and Reviews.”
During the six months ended August 2, 2019, the Company granted certain employees 0.1 million stock options with a weighted-average exercise price and weighted-average grant date fair value of $75.43 and $16.82, respectively. These options will expire on the seventh anniversary of the grant date and will vest ratably on each anniversary of the grant date over a three-year period.
ASU 2016-02 became effective for the Company in the first quarter of fiscal 2020. The Company adopted the standard using the optional transition method. Accordingly, the prior periods were not recast, and all prior period amounts disclosed are presented under ASC 840. The Company elected certain practical expedients provided under the standard, including the package of practical expedients, which allows entities not to reassess whether existing contracts are or contain leases. Therefore, at adoption, existing leases have been identified using the criteria of ASC 840. Cost of Revenues. Cost of revenues increased $406 million for the three months ended August 2, 2019 as compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to the acquisition of Engility. Cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues decreased from 90.0% in the prior year quarter to 88.4%, as a result of the acquisition of Engility.
Revenues. Revenues increased $479 million or 43.0% for the three months ended August 2, 2019 as compared to the same period in the prior year due to the acquisition of Engility. Adjusting for the impact of acquired revenues, revenues were consistent with the prior year quarter.
Adjusted EBITDA for the three months ended August 2, 2019 increased to 8.4% of revenues from 7.5% of revenues for the prior year driven by the acquisition of Engility and cost synergies related to the acquisition.
Operating Income. Operating income as a percentage of revenues of 6.0% for the three months ended August 2, 2019 decreased from 6.6% in the comparable prior year period due to increased intangible asset amortization and acquisition and integration costs related to the acquisition of Engility, partially offset by cost synergies.
Operating income as a percentage of revenues decreased to 5.9% for the six months ended August 2, 2019 from 6.1% in the comparable prior year period primarily due to increased intangible asset amortization and acquisition and integration costs related to the Engility acquisition, partially offset by cost synergies and improved performance across our portfolio.
Cost of revenues mix for the three and six months ended August 2, 2019 reflects an increase in labor-related content due to the acquisition of Engility, which historically had a higher proportion of such costs.
Revenues increased $919 million or 40.1% for the six months ended August 2, 2019 as compared to the same period in the prior year due to the acquisition of Engility. Adjusting for the impact of acquired revenues, revenues contracted 1.4%, attributable to humanitarian relief materials in the prior year and the effect of acquisition related dis-synergies.Charles A. MathisItem 1. Legal Proceedings
Charles A. Mathis