Aggregate changes in these estimates decreased operating income by $5 million ($0.09 per diluted share) for the three months ended May 4, 2018, and decreased operating income by $5 million ($0.10 per diluted share) for the three months ended May 5, 2017. In addition, revenues for the three months ended May 4, 2018, were $1 million higher due to net revenue recognized from performance obligations satisfied in prior periods. 
Science Applications International Corporation (collectively, with its consolidated subsidiaries, the “Company”) is a leading provider of technical, engineering and enterprise information technology (IT) services primarily to the U.S. government. The Company provides engineering and integration services for large, complex projects and offers a broad range of services with a targeted emphasis on higher-end, differentiated technology services. The Company is organized as a matrix comprised of three customer facing operating segments supported by three market service line organizations. Each of the Company’s three customer facing operating segments is focused on providing the Company’s comprehensive technical and enterprise IT service offerings to one or more agencies of the U.S federal government. The Company's operating segments are aggregated into one reportable segment for financial reporting purposes.
On May 4, 2015, the Company completed the acquisition of Scitor, a leading global provider of technical services to the U.S. intelligence community and other U.S. government customers. The acquisition was funded from cash on hand and increased borrowings. Purchase consideration paid to acquire Scitor was $764 million (net of cash acquired), including $43 million which was deposited to escrow accounts. In August 2015, $3 million was released from escrow to the sellers after finalizing the working capital adjustment and another $13 million was released in September 2016 that was held to secure a portion of the sellers’ indemnification obligations. During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company received a $6 million distribution from escrow to settle a claim, which was recognized as a reduction to selling, general, and administrative costs. As of May 4, 2018 there is no remaining amount in escrow.
Over time performance obligations may involve a series of recurring services, such as network operations and maintenance, operation and program support services, IT outsourcing services, and other IT arrangements where the Company is standing ready to provide support, when-and-if needed. Such performance obligations are satisfied over time because the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits of our performance as services are provided. Alternatively, over time performance obligations may involve the completion of a contract deliverable. Examples include systems integration, network engineering, network design, and engineering and build services. Deliverable-based performance obligations are satisfied over time when the Company’s performance creates or enhances an asset that is controlled by the customer, or when the Company’s performance creates an asset that is customized to the customer’s specifications and the Company has a right to payment, including profit, for work performed to date. 
During the three months ended May 4, 2018, the Company granted certain employees 0.3 million RSUs with a weighted-average grant date fair value of $85.26, which will vest ratably on each anniversary of the grant date over a four-year period.
During the three months ended May 4, 2018, the Company granted certain employees 0.1 million stock options with an exercise price and grant date fair value of $85.31 and $19.27, respectively. These options will expire on the seventh anniversary of the grant date and will vest ratably on each anniversary of the grant date over a three-year period.
In addition to the described legal proceedings, we are routinely subject to investigations and reviews relating to compliance with various laws and regulations. Additional information regarding such investigations and reviews is included in our fiscal 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and we have also updated this information in Note 9 of the notes to the condensed and consolidated financial statements contained within this report, under the heading “Government Investigations, Audits and Reviews.”
These impacts were primarily attributable to the change in accounting for programs previously accounted for using the efforts-expended method of percentage of completion.
For performance obligations in which the Company does not transfer control over time, we recognize revenue at the point-in-time when the customer obtains control of the related asset, usually at the time of shipment or upon delivery. The Company accrues for shipping and handling costs occurring after the point-in-time control transfers to the customer. Cost of Revenues. Cost of revenues increased $67 million for the three months ended May 4, 2018 as compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to an increase in revenue volume. Cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues increased from 91.3% in the prior year quarter to 91.4%, driven by higher supply chain material content. 
Cost of revenues mix for the three months ended May 4, 2018 reflects an increase in supply chain material content.
Operating Income. Operating income as a percentage of revenues decreased to 5.6% for the three months ended May 4, 2018 from 5.7% in the comparable prior year period, driven by higher supply chain material content which generate lower operating margins. Operating margins were also impacted by net unfavorable changes in estimates on contracts in both the current quarter and the prior year quarter driven primarily by increased costs on platform integration programs.
Revenues. Revenues increased $72 million or 6.5% for the three months ended May 4, 2018 as compared to the same period in the prior year due to revenue on new contracts primarily supporting NASA and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) ($47 million) and increased orders in our supply chain portfolio ($64 million). These increases were partially offset by completion of contracts and other net decreases across our portfolio ($39 million).
Our contract mix was relatively consistent for the three months ended May 4, 2018 compared to the prior year comparable period.
EBITDA for the three months ended May 4, 2018 decreased to 6.5% of revenues from 6.6% of revenues for the prior year, driven by higher supply chain material content which generate lower operating margins. Margins in both the current quarter and the prior year quarter were also impacted by net unfavorable changes in estimates on contracts driven primarily by increased costs on platform integration programs.
Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities. Refer to “Results of Operations” above for a discussion of the changes in cash provided by operating activities between the three months ended May 4, 2018 and the comparable prior year period.Charles A. MathisItem 1. Legal Proceedings
Charles A. Mathis