Pre-contract costs of $1 million and $3 million were expensed during the three and nine months ended November 2, 2018. Fulfillment costs of $2 million were amortized during the three and nine months ended November 2, 2018.
Science Applications International Corporation (collectively, with its consolidated subsidiaries, the “Company”) is a leading provider of technical, engineering and enterprise information technology (IT) services primarily to the U.S. government. The Company provides engineering and integration services for large, complex projects and offers a broad range of services with a targeted emphasis on higher-end, differentiated technology services. The Company is organized as a matrix comprised of three customer facing operating segments supported by three market service line organizations. Each of the Company’s three customer facing operating segments is focused on providing the Company’s comprehensive technical and enterprise IT service offerings to one or more agencies of the U.S federal government. The Company's operating segments are aggregated into one reportable segment for financial reporting purposes.
On May 4, 2015, the Company completed the acquisition of Scitor, a leading global provider of technical services to the U.S. intelligence community and other U.S. government customers. The acquisition was funded from cash on hand and increased borrowings. Purchase consideration paid to acquire Scitor was $764 million (net of cash acquired), including $43 million which was deposited to escrow accounts. In August 2015, $3 million was released from escrow to the sellers after finalizing the working capital adjustment and another $13 million was released in September 2016 that was held to secure a portion of the sellers’ indemnification obligations. During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company received a $6 million distribution from escrow to settle a claim, which was recognized as a reduction to selling, general, and administrative costs. There is no remaining amount in escrow.
The Company provides technical, engineering and enterprise IT services under long-term service arrangements primarily with the U.S. government including subcontracts with other contractors engaged in work for the U.S. government. The Company also serves a number of state and local governments, foreign governments and U.S. commercial customers. 
The Company's effective income tax rate was 17.7% and 17.4% for the three and nine months ended November 2, 2018, respectively, and 30.7% and 21.5% for the three and nine months ended November 3, 2017, respectively. The Company's effective tax rate was lower for the three and nine months ended November 2, 2018 compared to the prior year period due to the lower statutory federal income tax rate, increased research tax credits and hurricane disaster zone credits, partially offset by lower excess tax benefits related to employee share-based compensation, the repeal of the manufacturer’s deduction and the changes in deductibility of executive compensation due to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "Tax Act"). Tax rates for the periods ended November 2, 2018 were lower than the combined federal and state statutory rates due to excess tax benefits related to employee share-based compensation, research and development credits, and hurricane disaster zone credits, partially offset by permanent book tax differences.
The Company recognized a $25 million provision for inventory within cost of revenues during the three and nine months ended November 2, 2018 related to firm purchase commitments on a firm-fixed price program.
were recognized for the three months ended November 2, 2018, relating to amounts that were included in the opening balance of contract liabilities - current as of February 3, 2018. 
Over time performance obligations may involve a series of recurring services, such as network operations and maintenance, operation and program support services, IT outsourcing services, and other IT arrangements where the Company is standing ready to provide support, when-and-if needed. Such performance obligations are satisfied over time because the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits of our performance as services are provided. Alternatively, over time performance obligations may involve the completion of a contract deliverable. Examples include systems integration, network engineering, network design, and engineering and build services. Deliverable-based performance obligations are satisfied over time when the Company’s performance creates or enhances an asset that is controlled by the customer, or when the Company’s performance creates an asset that is customized to the customer’s specifications and the Company has a right to payment, including profit, for work performed to date. 
In addition to the described legal proceedings, we are routinely subject to investigations and reviews relating to compliance with various laws and regulations. Additional information regarding such investigations and reviews is included in our fiscal 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and we have also updated this information in Note 10 of the notes to the condensed and consolidated financial statements contained within this report, under the heading “Government Investigations, Audits and Reviews.”Operating income as a percentage of revenues increased to 6.1% for the nine months ended November 2, 2018 from 5.8% in the comparable prior year period primarily due to improved performance across our portfolio and the realization of cost efficiencies resulting from our restructuring activities in fiscal 2018, partially offset by an increase in our inventory provision and costs associated with the acquisition and integration of Engility ($14 million).
Cost of revenues mix for the three and nine months ended November 2, 2018 reflects an increase in supply chain material content.
Cost of Revenues. Cost of revenues increased $12 million for the three months ended November 2, 2018 as compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to an increase in revenue volume. Cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues decreased from 90.5% in the prior year quarter to 89.0%, driven by improved performance across our portfolio ($28 million), inclusive of newly awarded contracts, and higher net favorable changes in estimates related to performance obligations satisfied over time ($14 million). These improvements were partially offset by an increase in our inventory provision ($25 million).
Revenues. Revenues increased $32 million or 2.8% for the three months ended November 2, 2018 as compared to the same period in the prior year due to newly awarded contracts ($54 million), which includes information technology (IT) integration contracts supporting state and local customers, and increased orders in our supply chain portfolio ($24 million). These increases were partially offset by completion of contracts and other net decreases across our portfolio ($46 million).
Revenues increased $141 million or 4.2% for the nine months ended November 2, 2018 as compared to the same period in the prior year due to revenue on new contracts primarily supporting NASA, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and state and local customers ($128 million), as well as increased orders in our supply chain portfolio ($120 million). These increases were partially offset by completion of contracts ($72 million) and other net decreases across our portfolio ($35 million).
Net income for the nine months ended November 2, 2018 increased $18 million as compared to the same period in the prior year due to higher operating income and a lower effective tax rate, partially offset by expenses associated with the debt refinancing activities in the current year.Charles A. MathisEven if the Engility merger is consummated, we may not be able to successfully integrate the business of Engility with our own or realize the anticipated benefits of the merger in the expected time frame, or at all.
Item 1. Legal Proceedings
In addition to the described legal proceedings, we are routinely subject to investigations and reviews relating to compliance with various laws and regulations. Additional information regarding such investigations and reviews is included in our fiscal 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and we have also updated this information in Note 10 of the notes to the condensed and consolidated financial statements contained within this report, under the heading “Government Investigations, Audits and Reviews.”