Aggregate changes in these estimates increased operating income by $2 million ($0.03 per diluted share) for the three months ended August 3, 2018, decreased operating income by $3 million ($0.05 per diluted share) for the six months ended August 3, 2018, increased operating income by $1 million ($0.01 per diluted share) for the three months ended August 4, 2017, and decreased operating income by $4 million ($0.06 per diluted share) for the six months ended August 4, 2017. In addition, revenues were $2 million and $3 million higher for the three and six months ended August 3, 2018, respectively, due to net revenue recognized from performance obligations satisfied in prior periods. 
Pre-contract costs of $2 million were expensed during the three and six months ended August 3, 2018. Fulfillment costs amortized during the three and six months ended August 3, 2018 were not material.
Science Applications International Corporation (collectively, with its consolidated subsidiaries, the “Company”) is a leading provider of technical, engineering and enterprise information technology (IT) services primarily to the U.S. government. The Company provides engineering and integration services for large, complex projects and offers a broad range of services with a targeted emphasis on higher-end, differentiated technology services. The Company is organized as a matrix comprised of three customer facing operating segments supported by three market service line organizations. Each of the Company’s three customer facing operating segments is focused on providing the Company’s comprehensive technical and enterprise IT service offerings to one or more agencies of the U.S federal government. The Company's operating segments are aggregated into one reportable segment for financial reporting purposes.
On May 4, 2015, the Company completed the acquisition of Scitor, a leading global provider of technical services to the U.S. intelligence community and other U.S. government customers. The acquisition was funded from cash on hand and increased borrowings. Purchase consideration paid to acquire Scitor was $764 million (net of cash acquired), including $43 million which was deposited to escrow accounts. In August 2015, $3 million was released from escrow to the sellers after finalizing the working capital adjustment and another $13 million was released in September 2016 that was held to secure a portion of the sellers’ indemnification obligations. During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company received a $6 million distribution from escrow to settle a claim, which was recognized as a reduction to selling, general, and administrative costs. There is no remaining amount in escrow.
The Company provides technical, engineering and enterprise IT services under long-term service arrangements primarily with the U.S. government including subcontracts with other contractors engaged in work for the U.S. government. The Company also serves a number of state and local governments, foreign governments and U.S. commercial customers. 
The changes in the Company's contract assets and contract liabilities during the current period primarily results from the timing differences between the Company's performance, invoicing and customer payments. During the six months ended August 3, 2018, the Company recognized revenues of $9 million relating to amounts that were included in the opening balance of contract liabilities - current as of February 3, 2018. No revenues were recognized for the three months ended August 3, 2018, relating to amounts that were included in the opening balance of contract liabilities - current as of February 3, 2018. 
Over time performance obligations may involve a series of recurring services, such as network operations and maintenance, operation and program support services, IT outsourcing services, and other IT arrangements where the Company is standing ready to provide support, when-and-if needed. Such performance obligations are satisfied over time because the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits of our performance as services are provided. Alternatively, over time performance obligations may involve the completion of a contract deliverable. Examples include systems integration, network engineering, network design, and engineering and build services. Deliverable-based performance obligations are satisfied over time when the Company’s performance creates or enhances an asset that is controlled by the customer, or when the Company’s performance creates an asset that is customized to the customer’s specifications and the Company has a right to payment, including profit, for work performed to date. 
In addition to the described legal proceedings, we are routinely subject to investigations and reviews relating to compliance with various laws and regulations. Additional information regarding such investigations and reviews is included in our fiscal 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and we have also updated this information in Note 9 of the notes to the condensed and consolidated financial statements contained within this report, under the heading “Government Investigations, Audits and Reviews.”
These impacts were primarily attributable to the change in accounting for programs previously accounted for using the efforts-expended method of percentage of completion.Net income for the six months ended August 3, 2018 increased $13 million as compared to the same period in the prior year due to higher operating income, partially offset by higher income tax expense.
Operating Income. Operating income as a percentage of revenues increased to 6.6% for the three months ended August 3, 2018 from 5.5% in the comparable prior year period, driven by improved performance across our portfolio and the realization of cost efficiencies resulting from our restructuring activities in fiscal 2018.
Operating income as a percentage of revenues increased to 6.1% for the six months ended August 3, 2018 from 5.6% in the comparable prior year period primarily due to improved performance across our portfolio and the realization of cost efficiencies resulting from our restructuring activities in fiscal 2018.
Cost of revenues mix for the three and six months ended August 3, 2018 reflects an increase in supply chain material content.
Adjusted EBITDA for the three months ended August 3, 2018 increased to 7.5% of revenues from 6.7% of revenues for the prior year, driven by improved performance across our portfolio and the realization of cost efficiencies resulting from our restructuring activities in fiscal 2018.
Adjusted EBITDA for the six months ended August 3, 2018 increased to 7.0% of revenues from 6.6% of revenues for the prior year, driven by improved performance across our portfolio and the realization of cost efficiencies resulting from our restructuring activities in fiscal 2018.Charles A. MathisItem 1. Legal Proceedings
In addition to the described legal proceedings, we are routinely subject to investigations and reviews relating to compliance with various laws and regulations. Additional information regarding such investigations and reviews is included in our fiscal 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and we have also updated this information in Note 9 of the notes to the condensed and consolidated financial statements contained within this report, under the heading “Government Investigations, Audits and Reviews.”
We have provided information about legal proceedings in which we are involved in our fiscal 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and we have provided an update to this information in Note 9 of the notes to the condensed and consolidated financial statements contained within this report.