Pre-contract costs of $1 million were expensed during the nine months ended November 1, 2019 and $1 million and $3 million were expensed during the three and nine months ended November 2, 2018, respectively. Fulfillment costs of $1 million and $3 million were amortized during the three and nine months ended November 1, 2019 and $2 million were amortized during the three and nine months ended November 2, 2018. 
Science Applications International Corporation (collectively, with its consolidated subsidiaries, the “Company”) is a leading provider of technical, engineering and enterprise information technology (IT) services primarily to the U.S. government. The Company provides engineering and integration services for large, complex projects and offers a broad range of services with a targeted emphasis on higher-end, differentiated technology services. The Company is organized as a matrix comprised of three customer facing operating segments supported by a solutions and technology group. Each of the Company’s three customer facing operating segments is focused on providing the Company’s comprehensive technical and enterprise IT service offerings to one or more agencies of the U.S. federal government. The Company's operating segments are aggregated into one reportable segment for financial reporting purposes.
On January 14, 2019, the Company completed the acquisition of Engility Holdings, Inc., a leading provider of integrated solutions and services supporting U.S. government customers in the defense, federal civilian, and intelligence and space communities. This strategic acquisition enables greater market and customer access, particularly in the intelligence and space communities, and enhances the Company's portfolio of capabilities, particularly in the area of systems engineering and integration. The acquisition enables acceleration of revenue growth through increased market and customer access, increased investment capacity, addition of cleared personnel and strategic alignment with key customers. The acquisition also enables increased profitability and cash generation with an improved margin profile and greater financial flexibility for investment and capital deployment. 
The Company's effective income tax rate was 23.8% and 22.3% for the three and nine months ended November 1, 2019, respectively, and 17.7% and 17.4% for the three and nine months ended November 2, 2018, respectively. The Company's effective tax rate was higher for the three months ended November 1, 2019 compared to the prior year period due principally to lower excess tax benefits related to employee share-based compensation. Tax rates for the periods ended November 1, 2019 were lower than the combined federal and state statutory rates due principally to excess tax benefits related to employee share-based compensation, research and development credits, and other permanent book tax differences.
During the nine months ended November 1, 2019 and November 2, 2018, the Company recognized revenues of $21 million and $10 million relating to amounts that were included in the opening balance of contract liabilities as of February 1, 2019 and February 3, 2018, respectively. During the three months ended November 1, 2019 and November 2, 2018, the Company recognized revenues of $2 million and $1 million relating to amounts that were included in the opening balance of contract liabilities as of February 1, 2019 and February 3, 2018.
In addition to the described legal proceedings, we are routinely subject to investigations and reviews relating to compliance with various laws and regulations. Additional information regarding such investigations and reviews is included in our fiscal 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and we have also updated this information in Note 11 of the notes to the condensed and consolidated financial statements contained within this report, under the heading “Government Investigations, Audits and Reviews.”
During the nine months ended November 1, 2019, the Company granted certain employees 0.1 million stock options with a weighted-average exercise price and weighted-average grant date fair value of $75.66 and $16.88, respectively. These options will expire on the seventh anniversary of the grant date and will vest ratably on each anniversary of the grant date over a three-year period.
The purchase price was allocated, on a preliminary basis, among assets acquired and liabilities assumed at fair value on the acquisition date, January 14, 2019, based on the best available information, with the excess purchase price recorded as goodwill. As of November 1, 2019, the Company had not finalized the determination of fair values allocated to various assets and liabilities, including, but not limited to, receivables, other current assets, deferred tax assets, property, plant, and equipment, other accrued liabilities and goodwill. The allocation of the purchase price is subject to change as the Company continues to obtain and assess relevant information that existed as of the acquisition date, including but not limited to, information pertaining to Engility’s historical government compliance accounting practices, legal proceedings, reserves, income taxes, contracts with customers, and pre-acquisition contingencies. The Company expects to have sufficient information available to resolve these items by the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020, which could potentially result in changes in assets or liabilities on Engility’s opening balance sheet and an adjustment to goodwill.
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-15, Customer’s Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That Is a Service Contract, which aligns the capitalization requirements for implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the existing capitalization requirements for implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software (Subtopic 350-40). ASU 2018-15 becomes effective for the Company in the first quarter of fiscal 2021. During the third quarter of fiscal 2020, the Company early adopted ASU 2018-15 and applied its provisions prospectively. Adoption of the standard did not have a material impact on the Company’s condensed and consolidated financial statements.Cost of revenues increased $1,175 million for the nine months ended November 1, 2019 as compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to the acquisition of Engility. Cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues decreased from 90.1% in the prior year to 88.9%, due to higher labor content partially driven by the Engility acquisition.
Revenues. Revenues increased $453 million or 38.5% for the three months ended November 1, 2019 as compared to the same period in the prior year due to the acquisition of Engility. Adjusting for the impact of acquired revenues, revenues contracted 1.5% due to acquisition related dis-synergies.
Cost of Revenues. Cost of revenues increased $408 million for the three months ended November 1, 2019 as compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to the acquisition of Engility. Cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues increased from 89.0% in the prior year quarter to 89.3%, due to lower current quarter net profit write-ups, partially offset by the acquisition of Engility.
Operating income as a percentage of revenues decreased to 5.8% for the nine months ended November 1, 2019 from 6.1% in the comparable prior year period primarily due to increased intangible asset amortization and acquisition and integration costs, partially offset by cost synergies.
Cost of revenues mix for the three and nine months ended November 1, 2019 reflects an increase in labor-related content primarily due to the acquisition of Engility, which historically had a higher proportion of such costs.
Operating Income. Operating income as a percentage of revenues of 5.8% for the three months ended November 1, 2019 decreased from 6.2% in the comparable prior year period due to increased intangible asset amortization, lower current quarter net profit write-ups and acquisition and integration costs, partially offset by cost synergies.
Net income attributable to common stockholders for the nine months ended November 1, 2019 increased $21 million as compared to the same period in the prior year due to higher operating income ($57 million, net of tax), partially offset by higher interest expense and a higher effective tax rate.Charles A. MathisItem 1. Legal Proceedings
Charles A. Mathis