Aggregate changes in these estimates increased operating income by $8 million ($0.11 per diluted share) for the three months ended May 3, 2019, and decreased operating income by $5 million ($0.09 per diluted share) for the three months ended May 4, 2018. Changes in these estimates increased net income by $6 million for the three months ended May 3, 2019. In addition, revenues were $9 million higher for the three months ended May 3, 2019, due to net revenue recognized from performance obligations satisfied in prior periods. 
Pre-contract costs of $1 million were expensed during the three months ended May 3, 2019. Fulfillment costs of $1 million were amortized during the three months ended May 3, 2019. 
particularly in the intelligence and space communities, and enhances the Company's portfolio of capabilities, particularly in the area of systems engineering and integration. The acquisition enables acceleration of revenue growth through increased market and customer access, increased investment capacity, addition of cleared personnel and strategic alignment with key customers. The acquisition also enables increased profitability and cash generation with an improved margin profile and greater financial flexibility for investment and capital deployment. 
Science Applications International Corporation (collectively, with its consolidated subsidiaries, the “Company”) is a leading provider of technical, engineering and enterprise information technology (IT) services primarily to the U.S. government. The Company provides engineering and integration services for large, complex projects and offers a broad range of services with a targeted emphasis on higher-end, differentiated technology services. The Company is organized as a matrix comprised of three customer facing operating segments supported by a solutions and technology group. Each of the Company’s three customer facing operating segments is focused on providing the Company’s comprehensive technical and enterprise IT service offerings to one or more agencies of the U.S federal government. The Company's operating segments are aggregated into one reportable segment for financial reporting purposes.
On January 14, 2019, the Company completed the acquisition of Engility Holdings, Inc., a leading provider of integrated solutions and services supporting U.S. government customers in the defense, federal civilian, and intelligence and space communities. This strategic acquisition enables greater market and customer access, 
During the three months ended May 3, 2019, the Company granted certain employees 0.4 million RSUs with a weighted-average grant date fair value of $74.97, which will vest ratably on each anniversary of the grant date over a three-year period.
During the three months ended May 3, 2019 and May 4, 2018, the Company recognized revenues of $13 million and $9 million relating to amounts that were included in the opening balance of contract liabilities as of February 1, 2019 and February 3, 2018, respectively.
In addition to the described legal proceedings, we are routinely subject to investigations and reviews relating to compliance with various laws and regulations. Additional information regarding such investigations and reviews is included in our fiscal 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and we have also updated this information in Note 11 of the notes to the condensed and consolidated financial statements contained within this report, under the heading “Government Investigations, Audits and Reviews.”
During the three months ended May 3, 2019, the Company granted certain employees 0.1 million stock options with a weighted-average exercise price and weighted-average grant date fair value of $74.97 and $16.71, respectively. These options will expire on the seventh anniversary of the grant date and will vest ratably on each anniversary of the grant date over a three-year period.Operating Income. Operating income as a percentage of revenues of 5.8% for the three months ended May 3, 2019 increased from 5.6% in the comparable prior year period, due to the acquisition of Engility, cost synergies related to the acquisition, and improved performance across our portfolio, partially offset by higher costs associated with the acquisition and integration of Engility.
Revenues. Revenues increased $440 million or 37.4% for the three months ended May 3, 2019 as compared to the same period in the prior year due to the acquisition of Engility. Excluding acquired revenues, revenues contracted 2.8%, attributable to humanitarian relief materials in the prior year quarter and the effect of acquisition related revenue dis-synergies.
Cost of revenues mix for the three months ended May 3, 2019 reflects an increase in labor-related content due to the acquisition of Engility which historically had a higher proportion of such costs.
Cost of Revenues. Cost of revenues increased $361 million for the three months ended May 3, 2019 as compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to the acquisition of Engility. Cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues decreased from 91.4% in the prior year quarter to 88.9%, driven by cost synergies as a result of the acquisition of Engility and improved performance across our portfolio including higher net favorable changes in estimates related to performance obligations satisfied over time ($13 million).
Net Income Attributable to Common Stockholders. Net income attributable to common stockholders for the three months ended May 3, 2019 increased $6 million as compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to increased operating income ($24 million, net of tax), partially offset by higher interest expense and a higher effective tax rate.
Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities. Net cash provided by operating activities was $178 million for the three months ended May 3, 2019, an increase of $90 million compared to the prior year, primarily due to customer collections recouped from the U.S. federal government partial shutdown that occurred in the prior quarter, strong customer collections across several programs, and cash provided from the operating activities of Engility.Charles A. MathisItem 1. Legal Proceedings
Charles A. Mathis