Item 2. 
The references to “adjusted for currency” or “at constant currency” in the Management Discussion do not include operational impacts that could result from fluctuations in foreign currency rates. When the company refers to growth rates at constant currency or adjusts such growth rates for currency, it is done so that certain financial results can be viewed without the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, thereby facilitating period-to-period comparisons of its business performance. Financial results adjusted for currency are calculated by translating current period activity in local currency using the comparable prior year period’s currency conversion rate. This approach is used for countries where the functional currency is the local currency. Generally, when the dollar either strengthens or weakens against other currencies, the growth at constant currency rates or adjusting for currency will be higher or lower than growth reported at actual exchange rates. Refer to “Currency Rate Fluctuations” on page 71 for additional information. 
The following table provides the company’s operating (non-GAAP) earnings for the first quarter of 2019 and 2018. 
In the first quarter of 2019, the company reported $18.2 billion in revenue, $1.6 billion in income from continuing operations and operating (non-GAAP) earnings of $2.0 billion, resulting in diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $1.78 as reported and $2.25 on an operating (non-GAAP) basis. The company also generated $4.8 billion in cash from operations, $1.7 billion in free cash flow and delivered shareholder returns of $2.3 billion in gross common stock repurchases and dividends. As the company continued to optimize its portfolio and invest in emerging, high-value areas of the IT industry, there was strong performance in offerings that help clients with their digital transformation and shift of mission-critical work to the cloud. 
Total cloud revenue of $4.5 billion in the first quarter of 2019 grew 7 percent as reported and 12 percent adjusted for currency. The annual exit run rate for as-a-Service revenue was $11.7 billion, an increase of 10 percent as reported and 15 percent adjusted for currency. 
Total expense and other (income) decreased 13.4 percent in the first quarter of 2019 compared to the prior year. The year-to-year performance was driven by a lower level of workforce rebalancing charges (7 points), the impact of currency (5 points) and lower non-operating retirement-related costs (4 points), partially offset by a decrease in intellectual property (IP) income (3 points). Total operating (non-GAAP) expense and other (income) decreased 10.8 percent year to year, driven primarily by the same factors excluding the non-operating retirement-related costs. 
Pre-tax income from continuing operations of $1.9 billion increased 65.8 percent and the pre-tax margin was 10.4 percent, an increase of 4.4 points versus 2018. The continuing operations effective tax rate for the first quarter of 2019 was 15.4 percent, an increase of 62.9 points compared to the first quarter of 2018. The year-to-year change was primarily driven by a reduced benefit from audit resolutions (65.8 points), offset by a lower impact from U.S. tax reform (2.5 points) and a more favorable mix of earnings. Net income of $1.6 billion decreased 5.2 percent and the net income margin was 8.8 percent, flat year to year. Operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax income from continuing operations of $2.2 billion grew 28.3 percent year to year and the operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax margin from continuing operations increased 3.2 points to 12.3 percent. The operating (non-GAAP) tax rate for the first quarter of 2019 was 10.0 percent, an increase of 40.6 points compared to the first quarter of 2018. The change in the operating (non-GAAP) tax rate was primarily driven by the same factors mentioned above, excluding the impacts of U.S. tax reform related activity. Operating (non-GAAP) income from continuing operations of $2.0 billion decreased 11.6 percent with an operating (non-GAAP) income margin from continuing operations of 11.0 percent, down 0.9 points year to year. 
Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $1.78 in the first quarter of 2019 decreased 1.7 percent and operating (non-GAAP) diluted earnings per share of $2.25 decreased 8.2 percent versus the first quarter of 2018. In the first quarter of 2019, the company repurchased 6.9 million shares of its common stock at a cost of $0.9 billion and had $2.4 billion remaining in the current share repurchase authorization at March 31, 2019. 
· An increase of $5.9 billion in cash, restricted cash and marketable securities; 
· An increase in operating right-of-use assets of $4.6 billion resulting from the adoption of the new leasing standard; partially offset by 
· A decrease in total receivables of $3.4 billion due to collections of higher year-end balances. 
· An increase in operating lease liabilities of $4.9 billion resulting from the adoption of the new leasing standard; and 
· An increase in total debt of $4.2 billion driven by new issuances. 
· Decreases from dividends ($1.4 billion) and treasury stock ($1.0 billion) primarily due to share repurchases; partially offset by 
· Increases from net income ($1.6 billion) and retirement related plans ($0.3 billion). 
The company continues to expect GAAP diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of at least $12.45 and operating (non-GAAP) earnings of at least $13.90 per diluted share for 2019. The company continues to expect free cash flow to be approximately $12 billion in 2019, with free cash flow realization expected to be approximately 100 percent of GAAP net income. Refer to page 72 in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section for additional information on this non-GAAP measure. Refer to the Looking Forward section on pages 69 to 71 for additional information on the company’s expectations. 
Pre-tax income of $1,767 million increased 5.2 percent in the first quarter of 2019 compared to the prior year. The pre-tax margin increased 2.3 points to 30.1 percent, driven by a lower level of workforce rebalancing charges in the current year, partially offset by lower IP income and continued investment in key strategic areas. 
Global Business Services revenue of $4,119 million was flat as reported, but increased 4 percent adjusted for currency in the first quarter of 2019 compared to the prior year. There was strong growth in Consulting, as clients turn to GBS, with its industry specific expertise and innovative technology portfolio, to help them on their digital journey to a Cognitive Enterprise. 
Consulting revenue of $1,964 million grew 5.2 percent as reported and 9 percent adjusted for currency. This growth was led by Digital Strategy and iX, consulting for cloud application migrations and the Next Generation Enterprise Application practice. 
Global Process Services revenue of $247 million was flat as reported, but grew 5 percent adjusted for currency, driven by strong performance in risk and compliance. 
Application Management revenue of $1,908 million declined 4.7 percent as reported, but was flat adjusted for currency. As the business shifts to cloud-based offerings, there was continued growth in Cloud Migration Factory and cloud application development. This growth was offset by ongoing declines in traditional application management engagements. 
Global Technology Services revenue of $6,875 million declined 7.4 percent as reported (3 percent adjusted for currency) in the first quarter of 2019 compared to the prior year. The company is continuing to take actions to optimize the portfolio by de-emphasizing lower-value services content to increase margin, profit and cash contribution and better position the business for the longer term. 
Technology Support Services revenue of $1,665 million decreased 6.5 percent as reported (2 percent adjusted for currency) due primarily to hardware cycle dynamics. 
The estimated total services backlog at March 31, 2019 was $112 billion, a decrease of 8.0 percent as reported (2 percent adjusted for currency). 
under contract which is either non-cancellable, or which historically has very low likelihood of termination, given the criticality of certain services to the company’s clients. Total backlog does not include as-a-Service arrangements that allow for termination under contractual commitment terms. Backlog estimates are subject to change and are affected by several factors, including terminations, changes in the scope of contracts, periodic revalidations, adjustments for revenue not materialized and adjustments for currency. 
Systems revenue of $1,328 million decreased 11.4 percent as reported (9 percent adjusted for currency) in the first quarter of 2019 compared to the prior year. Systems Hardware revenue of $914 million declined 16.4 percent as reported (14 percent adjusted for currency). These declines were driven by IBM Z and Storage Systems, partially offset by growth in Power Systems. Operating Systems Software revenue of $414 million grew 1.8 percent as reported (5 percent adjusted for currency) compared to the prior year. 
IBM Z revenue declined 38.8 percent as reported (38 percent adjusted for currency) year to year reflecting the product cycle dynamics. The z14 continues to track ahead of the prior program with strong growth in MIPS shipped during the quarter led by Linux. The single-frame z14 designed specifically for cloud data centers was also a growth driver. 
Power Systems revenue grew 5.9 percent as reported (9 percent adjusted for currency) year to year. This was the sixth consecutive quarter of growth, driven by Linux and the full rollout of the POWER9-based architecture. The POWER9-based systems are designed to handle more data intensive workloads in AI, HANA and UNIX, as well as manage advanced analytics and cloud environments. There was double-digit growth in the high-end and entry-level systems, partially offset by declines in the midrange systems, as reported and adjusted for currency. 
The Systems gross profit margin increased 2.5 points to 46.2 percent in the first quarter of 2019 compared to the prior year. The year-to-year increase was driven by actions taken in the prior year to better position the systems cost structure over the longer term, and a current year benefit from mix to operating systems software. 
The pre-tax loss in the first quarter of 2019 was flat compared to the prior year. The pre-tax margin decreased 1.3 points year to year, driven by mix due to the z14 product cycle. 
Global Financing is a reportable segment that is measured as a stand-alone entity. Global Financing facilitates IBM clients’ acquisition of information technology systems, software and services by providing financing solutions in the areas where the company has the expertise, while generating strong returns on equity. Global Financing also optimizes the recovery of residual values by selling assets sourced from end of lease, leasing used equipment to new clients, or extending lease arrangements with current clients. Sales of equipment include equipment returned at the end of a lease, surplus internal equipment and used equipment purchased externally. Residual value is a risk unique to the financing business and management of this risk is dependent upon the ability to accurately project future equipment values at lease inception. Global Financing has insight into product plans and cycles for the IBM products under lease. Based upon this product information, Global Financing continually monitors projections of future equipment values and compares them with the residual values reflected in the portfolio. 
In the first quarter, Global Financing total revenue of $706 million declined 15.4 percent compared to the prior year. External revenue was flat as reported and increased 4 percent adjusted for currency due to an increase in financing (increased 7.4 percent to $336 million), partially offset by a decrease in used equipment sales (down 24.2 percent to $70 million). Internal revenue decreased 30.0 percent, driven by a decrease in used equipment sales (down 42.2 percent to $188 million), partially offset by an increase in financing (up 8.1 percent to $113 million). 
The increases in internal and external financing revenue in the first quarter of 2019 compared to the same period in 2018 were primarily due to higher asset yields. 
Global Financing return on equity was 13.7 percent for the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to 32.5 percent for the three months ended March 31, 2018. The decrease in return on equity was driven by a decline in net income. Net income included higher tax expense in the first quarter of 2019 due to additional guidance issued by the U.S. Treasury regarding the U.S. tax reform repatriation tax. Refer to page 73 for the details of the after-tax income and return on equity calculation. 
In addition to the revenue presentation by reportable segment, the company also measures revenue performance on a geographic basis. 
In the first quarter, total revenue of $18,182 million decreased 4.7 percent as reported and 1 percent adjusted for currency compared to the prior year. Americas revenue of $8,493 million decreased 2.5 percent as reported and 1 percent adjusted for currency. EMEA revenue of $5,727 million decreased 7.3 percent as reported, but was flat adjusted for currency. Asia Pacific revenue of $3,961 million decreased 5.4 percent as reported and 2 percent adjusted for currency. 
Within Americas, U.S. revenue decreased 2.8 percent compared to the prior year. Canada revenue was flat as reported, but grew 5 percent adjusted for currency. Latin America decreased 3.9 percent as reported, but increased 5 percent adjusted for currency. Within Latin America, Brazil decreased 6.4 percent as reported, but increased 4 percent adjusted for currency. 
· Lower spending (2 points). 
Operating (non-GAAP) expense decreased 14.4 percent year to year driven by primarily the same factors. 
Bad debt expense decreased $7 million year to year. The receivables provision coverage was 1.7 percent at March 31, 2019, an increase of 10 basis points from December 31, 2018 and unchanged from March 31, 2018. 
· The effects of currency (2 points). 
Operating (non-GAAP) other (income) and expense was $187 million of income in the first quarter of 2019 compared to expense of $11 million in the prior year. The year-to-year change was driven primarily by the net exchange dynamics described above. 
Interest expense increased $45 million year to year in the first quarter of 2019. Interest expense is presented in cost of financing in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings if the related external borrowings are to support the Global Financing external business. Overall interest expense (excluding capitalized interest) for the first quarter of 2019 was $389 million, an increase of $42 million versus the comparable prior-year period, primarily driven by a higher average debt balance and higher average interest rates. 
Total pre-tax retirement-related plan cost decreased by $297 million compared to the first quarter of 2018, primarily driven by a decrease in recognized actuarial losses ($289 million), primarily due to the change in the amortization period in the U.S. Qualified Personal Pension Plan, higher expected return on plan assets ($26 million) and a decrease in defined contribution plans cost ($20 million), partially offset by higher interest costs ($36 million). 
The continuing operations effective tax rate for the first quarter of 2019 was 15.4 percent, an increase of 62.9 points compared to the first quarter of 2018. The operating (non-GAAP) tax rate for the first quarter of 2019 was 10.0 percent, an increase of 40.6 points compared to the first quarter of 2018. 
Basic earnings per share is computed on the basis of the weighted-average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share is computed on the basis of the weighted-average number of shares of common stock outstanding plus the effect of dilutive potential common shares outstanding during the period using the treasury stock method. Dilutive potential common shares include outstanding stock options and stock awards. 
Actual shares outstanding at March 31, 2019 were 886.6 million. The weighted-average number of common shares outstanding assuming dilution during the first quarter of 2019 was 31.5 million shares (3.4 percent) lower than the same period of 2018. The decrease was primarily the result of the common stock repurchase program. 
At March 31, 2019, the balance sheet remained strong and the company is well positioned for the long term. Cash, restricted cash and marketable securities at quarter end were $18,144 million compared to $12,222 million at December 31, 2018, with a corresponding increase in debt as the company begins to prepare for the pending Red Hat acquisition. The company continues to manage the investment portfolio to meet its capital preservation and liquidity objectives. Total debt of $49,976 million increased $4,165 million from December 31, 2018, driven by new debt issuances of $5,962 million; partially offset by debt maturities of $1,751 million. Within total debt, $29,522 million is in support of the Global Financing business. In the first quarter of 2019, the company adopted the new leasing standard, which increased assets and corresponding lease liabilities by $4,634 million and $4,903 million, respectively, as of March 31, 2019. In the first three months of 2019, the company generated $4,759 million in cash from operations, compared to $4,602 million in the first three months of 2018. The company has consistently generated strong cash flows from operations and continues to have access to additional sources of liquidity through the capital markets and its credit facilities. 
The assets and debt associated with the Global Financing business are a significant part of the company’s financial position. Debt for Global Financing is expected to decline during 2019 as the company winds down its OEM Commercial Financing content. The financial position amounts appearing on pages 5 and 6 are the consolidated amounts including Global Financing. 
At March 31, 2019, substantially all client and commercial financing assets were IT related assets, and approximately 55 percent of the total external portfolio was with investment grade clients with no direct exposure to consumers. This investment grade percentage is based on the credit ratings of the companies in the portfolio. 
The company has a long-standing practice of taking mitigating actions, in certain circumstances, to transfer credit risk to third parties, including credit insurance, financial guarantees, non-recourse borrowings, transfers of receivables recorded as true sales in accordance with accounting guidance or sales of equipment under operating lease. Adjusting for the mitigation actions, the investment grade content would increase by 16 points to 71 percent, an increase of 1 point year to year. 
· A decline in receivables of $2,619 million ($2,561 million adjusted for currency) primarily driven by declines in financing receivables of $2,101 million as a result of collections of higher year-end balances. 
· A decrease in taxes payable of $562 million ($538 million adjusted for currency). 
The total IBM receivables provision coverage was 1.7 percent at March 31, 2019, an increase of 10 basis points compared to December 31, 2018. The increase was driven by the overall decline in gross receivables. 
The following table presents external Global Financing receivables excluding residual values, the allowance for credit losses and immaterial miscellaneous receivables. 
The percentage of Global Financing receivables reserved increased from 0.9 percent at December 31, 2018, to 1.0 percent at March 31, 2019. The increase was primarily driven by the overall decline in gross receivables. Specific reserves were flat at March 31, 2019 compared to year-end 2018. Unallocated reserves decreased 7.7 percent from $72 million at December 31, 2018, to $66 million at March 31, 2019. 
Global Financing’s bad debt expense was $3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, compared to $4 million for the same period in 2018. 
· A decrease in long-term financing receivables of $787 million ($773 million adjusted for currency) as a result of seasonal reductions of higher year-end balances. 
· Reclassifications to short-term debt of $1,749 million to reflect upcoming maturities. 
· An increase in long-term operating lease liabilities of $3,590 million as a result of the adoption of the new leasing standard. 
The company’s funding requirements are continually monitored and strategies are executed to manage the overall asset and liability profile. Additionally, the company maintains sufficient flexibility to access global funding sources as needed. 
Global Financing provides financing predominantly for the company’s external client assets, as well as for assets under contract by other IBM units. These assets, primarily for Global Technology Services, generate long-term, stable revenue streams similar to the Global Financing asset portfolio. Based on their attributes, these Global Technology Services assets are leveraged with the balance of the Global Financing asset base. 
The debt used to fund Global Financing assets is composed of intercompany loans and external debt. Total debt changes generally correspond with the level of client and commercial financing receivables, the level of cash and cash equivalents, the change in intercompany and external payables and the change in intercompany investment from IBM. The terms of the intercompany loans are set by the company to substantially match the term, currency and interest rate variability underlying the financing receivable and are based on arm’s-length pricing. The Global Financing debt-to-equity ratio remained at 9.0 to 1 at March 31, 2019. 
Global Financing provides financing predominantly for the company’s external client assets, as well as for assets under contract by other IBM units. As previously stated, the company measures Global Financing as a stand-alone entity, and accordingly, interest expense relating to debt supporting Global Financing’s external client and internal business is included in the “Global Financing Results of Operations” on page 59 and in note 8, “Segments,” on pages 35 and 36. In the company’s Consolidated Statement of Earnings, the external debt-related interest expense supporting Global Financing’s internal financing to the company is reclassified from cost of financing to interest expense. 
Total equity decreased $323 million from December 31, 2018, primarily due to decreases from dividends paid ($1,397 million) and an increase in treasury stock ($950 million) primarily due to share repurchases; partially offset by increases from net income ($1,591 million) and retirement-related plans ($330 million). 
The company’s cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities, as reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows on page 7, are summarized in the following table. These amounts include the cash flows associated with the Global Financing business. 
· An increase of $98 million in cash provided by financing receivables. 
· An increase in net cash sourced from debt transactions of $4,945 million primarily driven by a higher level of issuances and a lower level of maturities in the current year. 
The company’s strategies, investments and actions are all made with an objective of optimizing long-term performance. A long-term perspective ensures that the company is well-positioned to take advantage of the major shifts in technology, business and the global economy. 
Over the last several years, the company has been making investments and shifting resources, embedding AI and cloud into its offerings while building new solutions and modernizing its existing platforms. These investments not only drive current performance, but will extend the company’s innovation leadership into the future. The company’s key differentiators are built around three pillars — innovative technology, industry expertise and trust and security, uniquely delivered through an integrated model. 
The company is focused on the next chapter of cloud, which will shift mission-critical work to the cloud and optimize everything from supply chains to core banking systems. To address this opportunity, enterprises need to be able to move and manage data, services, and workflows across multiple clouds and on-premises. They also need to be able to address security concerns, data protection and protocols, availability, and cloud management. This requires a hybrid, multi-cloud, open approach. As a result, the company has been reshaping its business to address this opportunity, investing heavily to build capabilities. Going forward, the company will continue providing growth rates for cloud and as-a service — the signposts of key emerging high value areas of the IT industry. The company eliminated its strategic imperatives reporting, established in 2015, with a goal of achieving approximately $40B of revenue across its strategic imperatives, which was achieved in 2018. 
IBM’s pending acquisition of Red Hat will bring together the best-in-class hybrid cloud providers and will enable companies to securely unlock the full value of cloud for their businesses. IBM and Red Hat will be strongly positioned to address this opportunity and accelerate hybrid cloud adoption. The company is proceeding through the regulatory process and continues to expect to close the transaction in the second half of 2019. The acquisition of Red Hat reinforces IBM’s high-value model. It is expected to accelerate IBM’s revenue growth, gross margin and be accretive to free cash flow within 12 months of closing. The company will continue with a disciplined financial policy and is committed to maintaining strong investment grade credit ratings and supporting a solid and growing dividend. The company will target a leverage profile consistent with a mid to high single A credit rating. During the first quarter of 2019, the company began the issuance of additional debt in preparation of the pending acquisition. In order to reduce debt, the company intends to suspend its share repurchase program in 2020 and 2021. 
At mid-April 2019 spot rates, the company expects a currency headwind of approximately 2.5 points to second quarter 2019 revenue growth and a headwind of approximately 2.0 points to full year 2019 revenue growth. The company expects revenue dynamics from the first quarter to the second quarter of 2019 to be similar to the last two years, which is a sequential increase of approximately $900 million to $1 billion. For full-year 2019, the company expects to expand gross and pre-tax margins. 
Beginning in the second quarter of 2019 and continuing throughout the year, IBM’s Global Financing business will wind down the portion of its commercial financing operations, which provides short-term working capital solutions for OEM information technology suppliers, distributors and resellers. IBM Global Financing will continue to provide differentiated end-to-end financing solutions, including commercial financing in support of IBM partner relationships. The wind down of this activity is expected to reduce IBM’s revenue, with a nominal impact to profit, however it does not change the company’s earnings per share and free cash flow expectations for 2019. 
Beginning in 2019, within the IBM U.S. Qualified Personal Pension Plan, substantially all the plan participants are now considered inactive, which, as required by U.S. GAAP, resulted in a change in the amortization period of unrecognized actuarial losses, from the average remaining service period of active plan participants to the average remaining life expectancy of inactive plan participants. These periods are approximately 6 years and 18 years, respectively. As a result of this change, there will be a reduction to 2019 amortization expense of approximately $900 million. Actuarial loss amortization is reported within non-operating pension costs. There will be no impact to 2019 operating (non-GAAP) retirement-related costs, funded status, retiree benefit payments or funding requirements of the U.S. Qualified Personal Pension Plan. However, there will be an impact to free cash flow realization. 
The company expects 2019 pre-tax retirement-related plan cost to be approximately $2.0 billion, a decrease of approximately $1 billion compared to 2018. This estimate reflects current pension plan assumptions at December 31, 2018. Within total retirement-related plan cost, operating retirement-related plan cost is expected to be approximately $1.5 billion, approximately flat versus 2018. Non-operating retirement-related plan cost is expected to be approximately $0.6 billion, a decrease of approximately $1 billion compared to 2018, primarily driven by lower actuarial loss amortization resulting from the change in amortization period for the U.S. plan. Contributions for all retirement-related plans are expected to be approximately $2.4 billion in 2019, an increase of approximately $100 million compared to 2018. 
The company translates revenue, cost and expense in its non-U.S. operations at current exchange rates in the reported period. References to “adjusted for currency” or “constant currency” reflect adjustments based upon a simple mathematical formula. However, this constant currency methodology that the company utilizes to disclose this information does not incorporate any operational actions that management could take to mitigate fluctuating currency rates. Currency movements impacted the company’s year-to-year revenue and earnings per share growth in the first three months of 2019. Based on the currency rate movements in the first three months of 2019, total revenue decreased 4.7 percent as reported and 0.9 percent at constant currency versus the first three months of 2018. On an income from continuing operations before income tax basis, these translation impacts offset by the net impact of hedging activities resulted in a theoretical maximum (assuming no pricing or sourcing actions) increase of approximately $60 million in the first three months of 2019 on an as-reported basis and an increase of approximately $50 million on an operating (non-GAAP) basis. The same mathematical exercise resulted in an increase of approximately $70 million in the first three months of 2018 on an as-reported basis and an increase of approximately $90 million on an operating (non-GAAP) basis. The company views these amounts as a theoretical maximum impact to its as-reported financial results. Considering the operational responses mentioned above, movements of exchange rates, and the nature and timing of hedging instruments, it is difficult to predict future currency impacts on any particular period, but the company believes it could be substantially less than the theoretical maximum given the competitive pressure in the marketplace. 
three years. For the three months ended, or as of, as applicable, March 31, 2019, those amounts are $4.8 billion of net cash from operating activities, $18.1 billion of cash, restricted cash and short-term marketable securities and $15.3 billion in global credit facilities, respectively. 
On October 28, 2018, IBM announced its intent to acquire all the outstanding shares of Red Hat. The transaction is subject to customary closing conditions, including regulatory clearance. The company intends to fund this transaction through a combination of cash and debt. In connection with this acquisition, IBM entered into a commitment letter under which certain banks committed to provide the company with a 364-day unsecured bridge term loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of up to $20 billion to fund the acquisition. 
The major rating agencies’ ratings on the company’s debt securities at March 31, 2019 appear in the following table and remain unchanged from December 31, 2018. IBM will continue with a disciplined financial policy and is committed to maintaining strong investment grade credit ratings. The company does not have “ratings trigger” provisions in its debt covenants or documentation, which would allow the holders to declare an event of default and seek to accelerate payments thereunder in the event of a change in credit rating. The company’s contractual agreements governing derivative instruments contain standard market clauses which can trigger the termination of the agreement if the company’s credit rating were to fall below investment grade. At March 31, 2019, the fair value of those instruments that were in a liability position was $705 million, before any applicable netting, and this position is subject to fluctuations in fair value period to period based on the level of the company’s outstanding instruments and market conditions. The company has no other contractual arrangements that, in the event of a change in credit rating, would result in a material adverse effect on its financial position or liquidity. 
Management uses free cash flow as a measure to evaluate its operating results, plan share repurchase levels, strategic investments and assess its ability and need to incur and service debt. The entire free cash flow amount is not necessarily available for discretionary expenditures. The company defines free cash flow as net cash from operating activities less the change in Global Financing receivables and net capital expenditures, including the investment in software. A key objective of the Global Financing business is to generate strong returns on equity, and increasing receivables is the basis for growth. Accordingly, management considers Global Financing receivables as a profit-generating investment, not as working capital that should be minimized for efficiency. Therefore, management includes presentations of both free cash flow and net cash from operating activities that exclude the effect of Global Financing receivables. Free cash flow guidance is derived using an estimate of profit, working capital and operational cash outflows. As previously noted, the company views Global Financing receivables as a profit-generating investment which it seeks to maximize and therefore it is not considered when formulating guidance for free cash flow. As a result the company does not estimate a GAAP Net Cash from Operations expectation metric. 
In the first three months of 2019, the company generated free cash flow of $1.7 billion, an increase of $0.3 billion versus the prior year. In the first quarter, the company continued to focus its cash utilization on returning value to shareholders including $1.4 billion in dividends and $0.9 billion in gross common stock repurchases (6.9 million shares). 
In 2019, the company is not legally required to make any contributions to the U.S. defined benefit pension plans. 
The company’s cash flows are sufficient to fund its current operations and obligations, including investing and financing activities such as dividends and debt service. When additional requirements arise, the company has several liquidity options available. These options may include the ability to borrow additional funds at reasonable interest rates and utilizing its committed global credit facilities. 
Item 4. Controls and Procedures 
Item 1. Legal Proceedings 
Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds and Issuer Repurchases of Equity Securities 
The following table provides information relating to the company’s repurchase of common stock for the first quarter of 2019. 
As disclosed in the company’s 2019 Proxy Statement filed on March 11, 2019, Hutham S. Olayan and James W. Owens were not nominees for election at the company’s annual meeting of stockholders held on April 30, 2019, and their terms on the Board ended. As a result, Article III, Section 2 of the company’s By-Laws was amended to decrease the number of directors to twelve, effective April 30, 2019. The full text of IBM’s By-Laws, as amended effective April 30, 2019, is included as Exhibit 3.2 of this report. 
The consulting arrangement is set forth in the Letter Agreement attached as Exhibit 10.1. 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. 
