Noncontrolling interest amounts of $7.1 million and $6.2 million, net of tax, for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $19.0 million and $17.9 million, net of tax, for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, are included as a reduction within other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.
Interim results are not necessarily indicative of financial results for a full year. The information included in this Form 10-Q should be read in conjunction with the company’s 2018 Annual Report.
In January 2017, the FASB issued guidance that simplifies the goodwill impairment test by removing Step 2. The guidance also changes the requirements for reporting units with zero or negative carrying amounts and requires additional disclosures for these reporting units. The guidance is effective January 1, 2020 and early adoption is permitted. The company will adopt the guidance on a prospective basis as of the effective date. The guidance is not expected to have a material impact in the consolidated financial results.
The FASB issued guidance in February 2016, with amendments in 2018 and 2019, which changed the accounting for leases. The guidance requires lessees to recognize right-of-use (ROU) assets and lease liabilities for most leases in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. The guidance also made some changes to lessor accounting, including elimination of the use of third-party residual value guarantee insurance in the lease classification test, and overall aligns with the new revenue recognition guidance. The guidance requires qualitative and quantitative disclosures to assess the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases. The company adopted the guidance effective January 1, 2019, using the transition option whereby prior comparative periods were not retrospectively presented in the Consolidated Financial Statements. The company elected the package of practical expedients not to reassess prior conclusions related to contracts containing leases, lease classification and initial direct costs (IDCs) and the lessee practical expedient to combine lease and nonlease components for all asset classes. The company made a policy election to not recognize ROU assets and lease liabilities for short-term leases for all asset classes. The guidance had a material impact on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as of the effective date. As a lessee, at adoption, the company recognized operating and financing ROU assets of $4.8 billion and $0.2 billion, respectively, and operating and financing lease liabilities of $5.1 billion and $0.2 billion, respectively. The transition adjustment recognized in retained earnings on January 1, 2019 was not material. From a lessor perspective, the changes in lease termination guidance and removal of third-party residual value guarantee insurance in the lease classification test did not have a material impact in the consolidated financial results. Refer to note 5, “Leases,” for additional information, including further discussion on the impact of adoption.
In August 2018, the FASB issued guidance on a customer’s accounting for implementation costs incurred in cloud-computing arrangements that are hosted by a vendor. Certain types of implementation costs should be capitalized and amortized over the term of the hosting arrangement. The guidance is effective January 1, 2020 and early adoption is permitted. The company adopted the guidance on January 1, 2019 on a prospective basis. The guidance did not have a material impact in the consolidated financial results.
The FASB issued guidance on the recognition of revenue from contracts with customers in May 2014 with amendments in 2015 and 2016. Revenue recognition depicts the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The guidance also requires specific disclosures relating to revenue recognition. The company adopted the guidance effective January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective transition method. At adoption, $557 million was reclassified from notes and accounts receivable-trade and deferred income-current to prepaid expenses and other current assets to establish the opening balance for net contract assets. In-scope sales commission costs previously recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings were capitalized in deferred costs in accordance with the transition guidance, in the amount of $737 million. Deferred income of $29 million was recorded for certain software licenses that will be recognized over time versus at point in time under previous guidance. Additionally, net deferred taxes were reduced by $184 million in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, resulting in a cumulative-effect net increase to retained earnings of $524 million. In the fourth quarter of 2018, the company recognized an additional impact to net deferred taxes and retained earnings of $56 million, resulting in a total net increase to retained earnings of $580 million. The decrease to net deferred taxes was the result of the company’s election to include Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income (GILTI) in measuring deferred taxes. The revenue guidance did not have a material impact in the company’s consolidated financial results. Refer to note 3, “Revenue Recognition,” for additional information.
The company continues to estimate forfeitures in conjunction with measuring stock-based compensation cost. The guidance also requires cash payments on behalf of employees for shares directly withheld for taxes to be presented as financing outflows in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. The FASB also issued guidance in May 2017 and June 2018, which relates to the accounting for modifications of share-based payment awards and accounting for share-based payments issued to non-employees, respectively. The company adopted the guidance for modifications in the second quarter of 2017, and guidance for non-employees’ payments in the second quarter of 2018. The guidance had no impact in the consolidated financial results.
The remaining performance obligation (RPO) disclosure provides the aggregate amount of the transaction price yet to be recognized as of the end of the reporting period and an explanation as to when the company expects to recognize these amounts in revenue. It is intended to be a statement of overall work under contract that has not yet been performed and does not include contracts in which the customer is not committed, such as certain as-a-Service, governmental, term software license and services offerings. The customer is not considered committed when they are able to terminate for convenience without payment of a substantive penalty. The disclosure includes estimates of variable consideration, except when the variable consideration is a sales-based or usage-based royalty promised in exchange for a license of intellectual property. Additionally, as a practical expedient, the company does not include contracts that have an original duration of one year or less. Remaining performance obligation estimates are subject to change and are affected by several factors, including terminations, changes in the scope of contracts, periodic revalidations, adjustment for revenue that has not materialized and adjustments for currency. 
For the three and nine months ending September 30, 2019, revenue was reduced by $42 million and $33 million, respectively, for performance obligations satisfied (or partially satisfied) in previous periods mainly due to changes in estimates on percentage-of-completion based contracts. 
For the three and nine months ending September 30, 2018, revenue was reduced by $25 million and $50 million, respectively, for performance obligations satisfied (or partially satisfied) in previous periods mainly due to changes in estimates on percentage-of-completion based contracts.
The amount of revenue recognized during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 that was included within the deferred income balance at June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018 was $3.6 billion and $7.7 billion, respectively, and was primarily related to services and software. 
The amount of revenue recognized during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 that was included within the deferred income balance at June 30, 2018 and January 1, 2018 was $3.8 billion and $8.0 billion, respectively, and was primarily related to services and software.
●Level 3—Unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.
The guidance requires the use of observable market data if such data is available without undue cost and effort.
When available, the company uses unadjusted quoted market prices in active markets to measure the fair value and classifies such items as Level 1. If quoted market prices are not available, fair value is based upon internally developed models that use current market-based or independently sourced market parameters such as interest rates and currency rates. Items valued using internally generated models are classified according to the lowest level input or value driver that is significant to the valuation.
The determination of fair value considers various factors including interest rate yield curves and time value underlying the financial instruments. For derivatives and debt securities, the company uses a discounted cash flow analysis using discount rates commensurate with the duration of the instrument.
●Counterparty credit risk adjustments are applied to financial instruments, taking into account the actual credit risk of a counterparty as observed in the credit default swap market to determine the true fair value of such an instrument.
●Credit risk adjustments are applied to reflect the company’s own credit risk when valuing all liabilities measured at fair value. The methodology is consistent with that applied in developing counterparty credit risk adjustments, but incorporates the company’s own credit risk as observed in the credit default swap market.
Certain assets that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis can be subject to nonrecurring fair value measurements. These assets include available-for-sale debt securities that are deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired. In the event of an other-than-temporary impairment of a debt security, fair value is measured using a model described above.
Certain non-financial assets such as property, plant and equipment, operating right-of-use assets, land, goodwill and intangible assets are also subject to nonrecurring fair value measurements if they are deemed to be impaired. The impairment models used for non-financial assets depend on the type of asset. There were no material impairments of non-financial assets for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Accounting guidance permits the measurement of eligible financial assets, financial liabilities and firm commitments at fair value, on an instrument-by-instrument basis, that are otherwise not permitted to be accounted for at fair value under other accounting standards. This election is irrevocable. The company has not applied the fair value option to any eligible assets or liabilities.
The following tables present the company’s financial assets and financial liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis at September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018. 
Notes and other accounts receivable and other investments are financial assets with carrying values that approximate fair value. Accounts payable, other accrued expenses and short-term debt (excluding the current portion of long-term debt and including short-term finance lease liabilities) are financial liabilities with carrying values that approximate fair value. If measured at fair value in the financial statements, these financial instruments would be classified as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy, except for short-term debt which would be classified as Level 2.
Fair values are based on discounted future cash flows using current interest rates offered for similar loans to clients with similar credit ratings for the same remaining maturities. At September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the difference between the carrying amount and estimated fair value for loans and long-term receivables was immaterial. If measured at fair value in the financial statements, these financial instruments would be classified as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.
Fair value of publicly-traded long-term debt is based on quoted market prices for the identical liability when traded as an asset in an active market. For other long-term debt (including long-term finance lease liabilities) for which a quoted market price is not available, an expected present value technique that uses rates currently available to the company for debt with similar terms and remaining maturities is used to estimate fair value. The carrying amount of long-term debt was $57,797 million and $35,605 million, and the estimated fair value was $62,398 million and $36,599 million at September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively. If measured at fair value in the financial statements, long-term debt (including the current portion) would be classified as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy.
As a result of the use of derivative instruments, the company is exposed to the risk that counterparties to derivative contracts will fail to meet their contractual obligations. To mitigate the counterparty credit risk, the company has a policy of only entering into contracts with carefully selected major financial institutions based upon their overall credit profile. The company’s established policies and procedures for mitigating credit risk on principal transactions include reviewing and establishing limits for credit exposure and continually assessing the creditworthiness of counterparties. The right of set-off that exists under certain of these arrangements enables the legal entities of the company subject to the arrangement to net amounts due to and from the counterparty reducing the maximum loss from credit risk in the event of counterparty default.
The company is also a party to collateral security arrangements with most of its major derivative counterparties. These arrangements require the company to hold or post collateral (cash or U.S. Treasury securities) when the derivative fair values exceed contractually established thresholds. Posting thresholds can be fixed or can vary based on credit default swap pricing or credit ratings received from the major credit agencies. The aggregate fair value of all derivative instruments under these collateralized arrangements that were in a liability position at September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018 was $737 million and $74 million, respectively, for which $116 million of collateral was posted by the company and reduced the position at September 30, 2019, and for which no collateral was posted at December 31, 2018. Full collateralization of these agreements would be required in the event that the company’s credit rating falls below investment grade or if its credit default swap spread exceeds 250 basis points, as applicable, pursuant to the terms of the collateral security arrangements. The aggregate fair value of derivative instruments in asset positions at September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018 was $536 million and $731 million, respectively. This amount represents the maximum exposure to loss at the reporting date if the counterparties failed to perform as contracted. This exposure was reduced by $316 million and $267 million at September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively, of liabilities included in master netting arrangements with those counterparties. Additionally, at December 31, 2018, this exposure was reduced by $70 million of cash collateral received from counterparties. No collateral was received at September 30, 2019. There were no non-cash collateral balances received from counterparties in U.S. Treasury securities at September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018. At September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the net exposure related to derivative assets recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position was $220 million and $395 million, respectively. At September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the net position related to derivative liabilities recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position was $641 million and $116 million, respectively.
In the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, the company does not offset derivative assets against liabilities in master netting arrangements nor does it offset receivables or payables recognized upon payment or receipt of cash collateral against the fair values of the related derivative instruments. The amount recognized in other receivables for the right to reclaim cash collateral was $116 million at September 30, 2019. No amount was recognized in other receivables at December 31, 2018 for the right to reclaim cash collateral. The amount recognized in accounts payable for the obligation to return cash collateral was $70 million at December 31, 2018. No amount was recognized in accounts payable for the obligation to return cash collateral at September 30, 2019. The company restricts the use of cash collateral received to rehypothecation, and therefore reports it in restricted cash in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. No amount was rehypothecated at September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018. 
The company may employ derivative instruments to hedge the volatility in stockholders’ equity resulting from changes in currency exchange rates of significant foreign subsidiaries of the company with respect to the U.S. dollar. These instruments, designated as net investment hedges, expose the company to liquidity risk as the derivatives have an immediate cash flow impact upon maturity which is not offset by a cash flow from the translation of the underlying hedged equity. The company monitors this cash loss potential on an ongoing basis and may discontinue some of these hedging relationships by de-designating or terminating the derivative instrument in order to manage the liquidity risk. Although not designated as accounting hedges, the company may utilize derivatives to offset the changes in the fair value of the de-designated instruments from the date of de-designation until maturity.
In its hedging programs, the company may use forward contracts, futures contracts, interest-rate swaps, cross-currency swaps, equity swaps, and options depending upon the underlying exposure. The company is not a party to leveraged derivative instruments.
A brief description of the major hedging programs, categorized by underlying risk, follows.
The company issues debt in the global capital markets to fund its operations and financing business. Access to cost-effective financing can result in interest rate mismatches with the underlying assets. To manage these mismatches and to reduce overall interest cost, the company may use interest-rate swaps to convert specific fixed-rate debt issuances into variable-rate debt (i.e., fair value hedges) and to convert specific variable-rate debt issuances into fixed-rate debt (i.e., cash flow hedges). At September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the total notional amount of the company’s interest-rate swaps was $4.7 billion and $7.6 billion, respectively. The weighted-average remaining maturity of these instruments at September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018 was approximately 2.7 years and 3.5 years, respectively. These interest-rate contracts were accounted for as fair value hedges. The company did not have any cash flow hedges relating to this program outstanding at September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018.
The company is exposed to interest rate volatility on future debt issuances. To manage this risk, the company may use instruments such as forward starting interest-rate swaps to lock in the rate on the interest payments related to the forecasted debt issuances. On May 15, 2019, the company issued an aggregate of $20 billion of indebtedness (see note 13, “Borrowings,” for additional information). Following the receipt of the net proceeds from this debt offering, the company terminated $5.5 billion of forward starting interest-rate swaps. These instruments were designated and accounted for as cash flow hedges for a portion of this issuance and hedged exposure to the variability in future cash flows over a maximum of 30 years. These swaps were the only instruments outstanding under this program at December 31, 2018, and there were no instruments outstanding at September 30, 2019. 
December 31, 2018, respectively, in AOCI. The company estimates that $18 million (before taxes) of the deferred net losses on derivatives in AOCI at September 30, 2019 will be reclassified to net income within the next 12 months, providing an offsetting economic impact against the underlying interest payments.
A large portion of the company’s foreign currency denominated debt portfolio is designated as a hedge of net investment in foreign subsidiaries to reduce the volatility in stockholders’ equity caused by changes in foreign currency exchange rates in the functional currency of major foreign subsidiaries with respect to the U.S. dollar. The company also uses cross-currency swaps and foreign exchange forward contracts for this risk management purpose. At September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the total notional amount of derivative instruments designated as net investment hedges was $11.4 billion and $6.4 billion, respectively. At September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the weighted-average remaining maturity of these instruments was approximately 0.2 years at both periods.
The company’s operations generate significant nonfunctional currency, third-party vendor payments and intercompany payments for royalties and goods and services among the company’s non-U.S. subsidiaries and with the company. In anticipation of these foreign currency cash flows and in view of the volatility of the currency markets, the company selectively employs foreign exchange forward contracts to manage its currency risk. These forward contracts are accounted for as cash flow hedges. The maximum length of time over which the company has hedged its exposure to the variability in future cash flows is four years. At September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the total notional amount of forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges of forecasted royalty and cost transactions was $9.9 billion and $9.8 billion, respectively. At September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the weighted-average remaining maturity of these instruments was approximately 0.7 years and 0.8 years, respectively.
The company is exposed to exchange rate volatility on foreign currency denominated debt. To manage this risk, the company employs cross-currency swaps to convert fixed-rate foreign currency denominated debt to fixed-rate debt denominated in the functional currency of the borrowing entity. These swaps are accounted for as cash flow hedges. The maximum length of time over which the company has hedged its exposure to the variability in future cash flows is approximately 12 years. At September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the total notional amount of cross-currency swaps designated as cash flow hedges of foreign currency denominated debt was $12.2 billion and $6.5 billion, respectively.
At September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, in connection with cash flow hedges of foreign currency denominated borrowings, the company recorded net losses of $138 million and net gains of $75 million (before taxes), respectively, in AOCI. The company estimates that $278 million (before taxes) of deferred net gains on derivatives in AOCI at September 30, 2019 will be reclassified to net income within the next 12 months, providing an offsetting economic impact against the underlying exposure.
The company uses its Global Treasury Centers to manage the cash of its subsidiaries. These centers principally use currency swaps to convert cash flows in a cost-effective manner. In addition, the company uses foreign exchange forward contracts to economically hedge, on a net basis, the foreign currency exposure of a portion of the company’s nonfunctional currency assets and liabilities. The terms of these forward and swap contracts are generally less than one year. The changes in the fair values of these contracts and of the underlying hedged exposures are generally offsetting and are recorded in other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. At September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the total notional amount of derivative instruments in economic hedges of foreign currency exposure was $8.2 billion and $5.2 billion, respectively.
The following tables provide a quantitative summary of the derivative and non-derivative instrument-related risk management activity at September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, as well as for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The company conducts business as both a lessee and a lessor. In its ordinary course of business, the company enters into leases as a lessee for property, plant and equipment. The company is also the lessor of certain equipment, mainly through its Global Financing segment.
When procuring goods or services, or upon entering into a contract with its clients, the company determines whether an arrangement contains a lease at its inception. As part of that evaluation, the company considers whether there is an implicitly or explicitly identified asset in the arrangement and whether the company, as the lessee, or the client, if the company is the lessor, has the right to control that asset.
ROU assets represent the company’s right to control the underlying assets under lease, and the lease liability is the obligation to make the lease payments related to the underlying assets under lease. Operating leases are included in operating right-of-use assets – net, current operating lease liabilities and operating lease liabilities in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. Finance leases are included in property, plant and equipment, short-term debt and long-term debt in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. At September 30, 2019, the total amount of ROU assets and lease liabilities for finance leases recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position in property, plant and equipment, short-term debt and long-term debt was $140 million, $34 million and $121 million, respectively.
Finance lease ROU assets are generally amortized on a straight-line basis over the lease term with the interest expense on the lease liability recorded using the interest method. The amortization and interest expense are recorded separately in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. For operating leases, the amortization of the ROU asset and the interest expense on the lease liability are not separately recorded; rather, the lease cost is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term as a single-line item in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings, unless the ROU asset is impaired. The company has elected to not recognize leases with a lease term of less than 12 months in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, including those acquired in a business combination, and lease costs for those short-term leases are recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.
There were no net gains recorded on sale and leaseback transactions for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and the company recorded $41 million of net gains for the nine months ended September 30, 2019.
Prior to the adoption of the new lease guidance on January 1, 2019, ROU assets and lease liabilities for operating leases were not recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. The company elected the practical expedient to not provide comparable presentation in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position for periods prior to adoption. Rental expense, including amounts charged to inventories and fixed assets, and excluding amounts previously reserved, was $1,944 million for the year ended December 31, 2018. Rental expense in agreements with rent holidays and scheduled rent increases was previously recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Contingent rentals were included in the determination of rental expense as accruable.
The difference between the company’s total lease commitments as reported at December 31, 2018 compared to the January 1, 2019 ROU asset balance in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position is primarily due to the required use of a discount factor (imputed interest) under the new lease guidance and certain amounts that are not included in the ROU asset under the new lease guidance (e.g., tenant incentives and vacant space).
Lease payments due to IBM are typically fixed and paid in equal installments over the lease term. The majority of the company’s leases do not contain variable payments that are dependent on an index or a rate. Variable lease payments that do not depend on an index or a rate (e.g., property taxes), that are paid directly by the company and are reimbursed by the client, are recorded as revenue, along with the related cost, in the period in which collection of these payments is probable. Payments that are made directly by the client to a third party, including certain property taxes and insurance, are not considered part of variable payments and therefore are not recorded by the company. The company has made a policy election to exclude from consideration in contracts all collections from sales and other similar taxes.
The company’s payment terms for leases are typically unconditional. Therefore, in an instance when the client requests to terminate the lease prior to the end of the lease term, the client would typically be required to pay the remaining lease payments in full. At the end of the lease term, the company allows the client to either return the equipment, purchase the equipment at the then-current fair market value or at a pre-stated purchase price or renew the lease based on mutually agreed upon terms. 
When lease arrangements include multiple performance obligations, the company allocates the consideration in the contract between the lease components and the non-lease components on a relative standalone selling price basis.
If a lease is classified as a sales-type or direct financing lease, the carrying amount of the asset is derecognized from inventory and a net investment in the lease is recorded. For a sales-type lease, the net investment in the lease is measured at commencement date as the sum of the lease receivable and the estimated residual value of the equipment less unearned income and allowance for credit losses. At September 30, 2019, the unguaranteed residual value of sales-type and direct financing leases was $565 million. For further information on the company’s net investment in leases, including residual values, refer to note 6, “Financing Receivables.” Any selling profit or loss arising from a sales-type lease is recorded at lease commencement. Selling profit or loss is presented on a gross basis when the company enters into a lease to realize value from a product that it would otherwise sell in its ordinary course of business, whereas in transactions where the company enters into a lease for the purpose of generating revenue by providing financing, the selling profit or loss is presented on a net basis. Under a sales-type lease, initial direct costs are expensed at lease commencement. Over the term of the lease, the company recognizes finance income on the net investment in the lease and any variable lease payments, which are not included in the net investment in the lease.
For a direct financing lease, the investment in the lease is measured similarly to a sales-type lease, however, the net investment in the lease is reduced by any selling profit. In a direct financing lease, the selling profit and initial direct costs are deferred at commencement and recognized over the lease term. The company rarely enters into direct financing leases.
The company optimizes the recovery of residual values by extending lease arrangements with, or selling leased equipment to existing clients. The company has historically managed residual value risk both through insight into its own product cycles and monitoring of OEM IT product announcements. The company periodically reassesses the realizable value of its lease residual values. Anticipated decreases in specific future residual values that are considered to be other-than-temporary are recognized immediately upon identification and are recorded as an adjustment to the residual value estimate. For sales-type and direct financing leases, this reduction lowers the recorded net investment and is recognized as a loss charged to finance income in the period in which the estimate is changed, as well as an adjustment to unearned income to reduce future-period financing income. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and September 30, 2018, respectively, impairment of residual values was immaterial.
Equipment provided to clients under an operating lease is carried at cost within property, plant and equipment in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position and depreciated over the lease term using the straight-line method, generally ranging from one to six years. The depreciable basis is the original cost of the equipment less the estimated residual value of the equipment at the end of the lease term. At September 30, 2019, the unguaranteed residual value of operating leases was $88 million.
At commencement of an operating lease, IDCs are deferred. As lease payments are made, the company records sales revenue over the lease term. IDCs are amortized over the lease term on the same basis as lease income is recorded.
Assets under operating leases are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. The impairment test is based on undiscounted cash flows, and, if impaired, the asset is written down to fair value based on either discounted cash flows or appraised values. There were no material impairment losses incurred during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 for assets under operating leases. These assets are included in property, plant and equipment ꟷ net in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
Financing receivables primarily consist of client loan and installment payment receivables (loans), investment in sales-type and direct financing leases and commercial financing receivables. Client loan and installment payment receivables (loans) are provided primarily to clients to finance the purchase of hardware, software and services. Payment terms on these financing arrangements are generally for terms up to seven years. Client loans and installment payment financing contracts are priced independently at competitive market rates. Investment in sales-type and direct financing leases relates principally to the company’s Systems products and are for terms ranging generally from two to six years. Commercial financing receivables relate primarily to inventory and accounts receivable financing for dealers and remarketers of IBM and OEM products. Payment terms for inventory and accounts receivable financing generally range from 30 to 90 days.
 Beginning in the second quarter of 2019 and continuing throughout the year, the company is winding down the portion of its commercial financing operations which provides short-term working capital solutions for OEM information technology suppliers, distributors and resellers, which has resulted in a significant reduction of commercial financing receivables. This wind down is consistent with IBM’s capital allocation strategy and high-value focus. IBM Global Financing will continue to provide differentiated end-to-end financing solutions, including commercial financing in support of IBM partner relationships.
The company utilizes certain of its financing receivables as collateral for nonrecourse borrowings. Financing receivables pledged as collateral for borrowings were $939 million and $710 million at September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.
The company did not have any financing receivables held for sale as of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018. 
Write-offs of lease receivables and loan receivables were $11 million and $12 million, respectively, for the nine months ended September 30, 2019. Provision for credit losses recorded for lease receivables and loan receivables were a release of $3 million and $2 million, respectively, for the nine months ended September 30, 2019.
and interest income recognized on a cash basis on impaired leases and loans were immaterial for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018.
Write-offs of lease receivables and loan receivables were $15 million and $20 million, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2018. Provisions for credit losses recorded for lease receivables and loan receivables were $14 million and $2 million, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2018.
The company considers a client’s financing receivable balance past due when any installment is aged over 90 days. The following table summarizes information about the recorded investment in lease and loan financing receivables, 
including recorded investments aged over 90 days and still accruing, billed invoices aged over 90 days and still accruing, and recorded investment not accruing.
The company’s credit quality indicators, which are based on rating agency data, publicly available information and information provided by customers, are reviewed periodically based on the relative level of risk. The resulting indicators are a numerical rating system that maps to Moody’s Investors Service credit ratings as shown below. The company uses information provided by Moody’s, where available, as one of many inputs in its determination of customer credit ratings.
The company did not have any significant troubled debt restructurings during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 or for the year ended December 31, 2018.
Stock-based compensation cost is measured at grant date, based on the fair value of the award, and is recognized over the employee requisite service period. The following table presents total stock-based compensation cost included in income from continuing operations.
Pre-tax stock-based compensation cost for the three months ended September 30, 2019 increased $91 million compared to the corresponding period in the prior year. This was primarily due to increases related to issuances and conversions of stock-based compensation for Red Hat ($79 million) and restricted stock units ($10 million).
Pre-tax stock-based compensation cost for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 increased $98 million compared to the corresponding period in the prior year. This was primarily due to increases related to issuances and conversions of stock-based compensation for Red Hat ($79 million) and restricted stock units ($25 million).
As of September 30, 2019, the total unrecognized compensation cost of $1.4 billion related to non-vested awards was expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of approximately 2.5 years.
There was no significant capitalized stock-based compensation cost at September 30, 2019 and 2018.
The Board of Directors authorizes the company to repurchase IBM common stock. At September 30, 2019, $2,008 million of Board common stock repurchase authorization was available. The company suspended its share repurchase program effective with the close of the Red Hat acquisition in order to focus on reducing debt related to the acquisition. 
The company offers defined benefit pension plans, defined contribution pension plans, as well as nonpension postretirement plans primarily consisting of retiree medical benefits. The following tables provide the pre-tax cost for all retirement-related plans.
As of 2019, substantially all the plan participants in the U.S. Qualified IBM Personal Pension Plan (PPP) are considered inactive. As required by U.S. GAAP, this resulted in a change in the amortization period of unrecognized actuarial losses to the average remaining life expectancy of inactive plan participants, which was 18 years as of December 31, 2018. Recognized actuarial losses decreased $242 million and $725 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, compared to the corresponding periods in the prior year, primarily driven by the change in the amortization period. There was no impact to funded status, retiree benefit payments or funding requirements of the U.S. Qualified PPP as a result of this change.
In 2019, the company expects to contribute approximately $300 million to its non-U.S. defined benefit and multi-employer plans, the largest of which will be contributed to the defined benefit pension plans in Japan, Spain and Belgium. This amount generally represents the legally mandated minimum contribution. Total net contributions to the non-U.S. plans in the first nine months of 2019 were $159 million, of which $95 million was in cash and $65 million in U.S. Treasury securities. Total contributions to the non-U.S. plans in the first nine months of 2018 were $275 million, of which $117 million was in cash and $157 million in U.S. Treasury securities. The contribution of U.S. Treasury securities is considered a non-cash transaction in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
The following tables provide the components of the cost for the company’s nonpension postretirement plans.
The company contributed $357 million in U.S. Treasury securities to the U.S. nonpension postretirement benefit and active employee medical trusts during the nine months ended September 30, 2019, and $275 million in U.S. Treasury securities during the nine months ended September 30, 2018. The contribution of U.S. Treasury securities is considered a non-cash transaction in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
Red Hat - On July 9, 2019, the company completed the acquisition of all of the outstanding shares of Red Hat. Red Hat’s portfolio of open-source technologies, innovative cloud development platform and developer community, combined with IBM’s innovative hybrid cloud technology, industry expertise and commitment to data, trust and security, will deliver the hybrid multicloud capabilities required to address the next chapter of cloud implementations as well as accelerate the company’s growth. Red Hat’s business model is based upon open-source software, which is an alternative to proprietary software in relation to the development and licensing of commercial software code. For Red Hat’s open-source software subscriptions, no revenue is recognized upfront from the licensing of the code itself, but rather, is recognized over time throughout the contract term as control of the promised product or service is transferred to the customer.
On the acquisition date, Red Hat shareholders received $190 per share in cash, representing a total equity value of approximately $34 billion. The company funded the transaction through a combination of cash on hand and proceeds from debt issuances. Refer to note 13, “Borrowings” for additional details on the financing of the transaction.
The following table reflects the preliminary purchase price allocation as of the acquisition date.
The Consolidated Statement of Earnings includes revenue and a pre-tax loss attributable to Red Hat since the date of acquisition for both the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 of $371 million and $981 million, respectively. The pre-tax loss is primarily driven by the deferred revenue fair value adjustment, retention expenses, intangible asset amortization and deal fees. It excludes interest expense.
Select IBM Marketing Platform and Commerce Offerings – On April 4, 2019, IBM and Centerbridge Partners, L.P. (Centerbridge) announced a definitive agreement, in which Centerbridge would acquire select marketing platform and commerce offerings from IBM, including Customer Experience Analytics, Content Hub and Marketing Assistant, among others. The transaction included commercial software and services offerings. In addition, the company started providing Centerbridge with transition services including IT, supply chain management, and other services. Upon closing, Centerbridge announced that this business would be re-branded under the name Acoustic. The closing completed for the U.S. on June 30, 2019. The company expects a subsequent closing for the remaining countries to occur within 12 months of the U.S. closing. The timing of the subsequent closing is subject to change as more information becomes available. The company received a net cash payment of $240 million on June 30, 2019 and expects to receive an additional $150 million within 36 months of the U.S. closing.
The company recognized an immaterial pre-tax gain on the sale on June 30, 2019. The amount of the pre-tax gain for the remaining countries will not be determinable until the valuation of the final balance sheet transferred is completed, however, it is not expected to be material.
The above three divested businesses are reported in other – divested businesses. Refer to note 8, “Segments,” for additional information. 
The aggregate intangible amortization expense was $614 million and $1,224 million for the third quarter and first nine months of 2019, respectively, versus $348 million and $1,031 million for the third quarter and first nine months of 2018, respectively. In the first nine months of 2019, the company retired $543 million of fully amortized intangible assets, impacting both the gross carrying amount and accumulated amortization by this amount. In addition, in the first nine months of 2019, the company divested select intangible assets with a gross carrying amount of $317 million and $253 million of accumulated amortization.
There were no goodwill impairment losses recorded during the first nine months of 2019 or full year 2018 and the company has no accumulated impairment losses.
information becomes available. Net purchase price adjustments recorded during the first nine months of 2019 and full year 2018 were not material.
The following is a summary of the more significant legal matters involving the company.
On March 9, 2017, the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania’s Department of Labor and Industry sued IBM in Pennsylvania state court regarding a 2006 contract for the development of a custom software system to manage the Commonwealth’s unemployment insurance benefits programs. The matter is pending in a Pennsylvania court.
Following the 2017 final judgment of the Appeal Court in London holding that IBM UK acted lawfully in 2010 in closing its UK defined benefit plans to future accruals for most participants and in implementing a new retirement policy, the Employment Tribunal in Southampton UK is expected to address approximately 290 individual actions alleging constructive dismissal and age discrimination brought against IBM UK in 2010 by employees who left the company at that time. The individual actions were previously stayed. The parties have an agreement to settle substantially all of the cases.
In May 2015, a putative class action was commenced in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York related to the company’s October 2014 announcement that it was divesting its global commercial semiconductor technology business, alleging violations of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA). Management’s Retirement Plans Committee and three current or former IBM executives are named as defendants. On 
September 29, 2017, the Court granted the defendants’ motion to dismiss the first amended complaint. On December 10, 2018, the Second Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the District Court order. On June 3, 2019, the Supreme Court of the United States granted defendants’ request to hear the case.
The company is party to, or otherwise involved in, proceedings brought by U.S. federal or state environmental agencies under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA), known as “Superfund,” or laws similar to CERCLA. Such statutes require potentially responsible parties to participate in remediation activities regardless of fault or ownership of sites. The company is also conducting environmental investigations, assessments or remediations at or in the vicinity of several current or former operating sites globally pursuant to permits, administrative orders or agreements with country, state or local environmental agencies, and is involved in lawsuits and claims concerning certain current or former operating sites.
The company’s extended lines of credit to third-party entities include unused amounts of $3,060 million and $7,368 million at September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively. A portion of these amounts was available to the company’s business partners to support their working capital needs. The decrease reflects the company’s wind down of its OEM IT commercial financing operations. In addition, the company has committed to provide future financing to its clients in connection with client purchase agreements for approximately $5,003 million and $4,432 million at September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.
The company has applied the guidance requiring a guarantor to disclose certain types of guarantees, even if the likelihood of requiring the guarantor’s performance is remote. The following is a description of arrangements in which the company is the guarantor.
The following tables provide the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share of common stock for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018.
On October 29, 2019, the company announced that the Board of Directors approved a quarterly dividend of $1.62 per common share. The dividend is payable December 10, 2019 to shareholders of record on November 8, 2019.
