Item 2. 
The following table provides the company’s (non-GAAP) operating earnings for the second quarter of 2018 and 2017. 
In the second quarter of 2018, the company reported $20.0 billion in revenue, $2.4 billion in income from continuing operations and operating (non-GAAP) earnings of $2.8 billion, resulting in diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $2.61 as reported and $3.08 on an operating (non-GAAP) basis. The company also generated $2.3 billion in cash from operations and $1.9 billion in free cash flow in the second quarter of 2018 and delivered shareholder returns of $2.4 billion through gross common stock repurchases and dividends. With good revenue and profit growth, the second-quarter results demonstrate that the company is capturing high-value growth with unique differentiation of innovative 
technology combined with deep industry expertise underpinned by trust and security – all delivered through its integrated business model. 
Total consolidated revenue increased 3.7 percent as reported and 1.6 percent adjusted for currency, reflecting the company’s highest constant currency growth in seven years. There was continued momentum in revenue across the strategic imperatives in the second quarter, led by cloud and security. 
Strategic imperatives revenue of $10.1 billion increased 15 percent as reported and 13 percent adjusted for currency in the second quarter, led by cloud and security. Cloud revenue of $4.7 billion increased 20 percent (18 percent adjusted for currency) driven by as-a-Service revenue which grew 26 percent as reported and 24 percent adjusted for currency. The annual exit run rate for as-a-Service revenue increased to $11.1 billion in the second quarter of 2018 compared to $8.8 billion in the second quarter of 2017. Security grew 81 percent as reported (79 percent adjusted for currency) driven by strong demand for the pervasive encryption of IBM Z and growth in integrated software and services. Analytics revenue of $5.4 billion increased 7 percent as reported and 5 percent adjusted for currency. Mobile revenue increased 5 percent as reported and 3 percent adjusted for currency. 
Pre-tax income from continuing operations of $2.8 billion increased 13.6 percent and the pre-tax margin was 13.9 percent, an increase of 1.2 points year to year. The continuing operations effective tax rate was 13.5 percent compared to 4.5 percent in the second quarter of 2017. The prior year tax rate included discrete tax benefits in the second quarter of $170 million. Income from continuing operations of $2.4 billion increased 3.0 percent and the net income margin was 12.0 percent, a decrease of 0.1 points versus the second quarter of 2017. Net income of $2.4 billion increased 3.1 percent year to year. 
Operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax income from continuing operations of $3.4 billion increased 10.9 percent year to year and the operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax margin from continuing operations increased 1.1 points to 16.9 percent. Operating (non-GAAP) income from continuing operations of $2.8 billion increased 2.7 percent with an operating (non-GAAP) income 
margin from continuing operations of 14.2 percent, a decline of 0.1 points year to year. The operating (non-GAAP) effective tax rate from continuing operations in the second quarter of 2018 was 16.0 percent. 
In the first six months of 2018, the company reported $39.1 billion in revenue, and delivered $4.1 billion in income from continuing operations, resulting in diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $4.42 as reported and $5.53 on an operating (non-GAAP) basis. The company generated $6.9 billion in cash from operations and $3.2 billion in free cash flow in the first six months of 2018 and delivered shareholder returns of $4.6 billion through gross common stock repurchases and dividends. 
Total consolidated revenue increased 4.4 percent year to year as reported and 0.8 percent adjusted for currency in the first six months of 2018. The company continued to have solid revenue growth in its strategic imperatives, led by cloud and security. 
In the first six months of 2018, the company’s strategic imperatives revenue increased 15 percent year to year as reported and 12 percent adjusted for currency. Strategic imperatives revenue over the last 12 months was $39.0 billion, an increase of 15 percent as reported and 12 percent adjusted for currency, representing 48 percent of the company’s total revenue. Total Cloud revenue in the first six months of 2018 of $8.9 billion increased 20 percent year to year as reported and 16 percent adjusted for currency, with as-a-Service revenue up 25 percent (22 percent adjusted for currency). Analytics revenue of $10.3 billion increased 7 percent as reported and 5 percent adjusted for currency. Mobile revenue increased 11 percent year to year (8 percent adjusted for currency) and Security revenue increased 74 percent as reported (70 percent adjusted for currency). 
From a geographic perspective, Americas revenue was flat year to year as reported and adjusted for currency with a modest decline in the U.S. offset by growth in Canada and Latin America. EMEA increased 12.2 percent as reported and 3 percent adjusted for currency with growth as reported and adjusted for currency in Germany, France, the UK and Spain. Asia Pacific increased 3.2 percent as reported and was flat adjusted for currency, with Japan up 3.5 percent as reported and flat adjusted for currency. China grew as reported (declined 2 percent adjusted for currency) and India declined as reported and adjusted for currency. 
Total expense and other (income) increased $0.5 billion or 3.7 percent in the first six months of 2018 compared to the prior year. The year-to-year increase included a higher level of workforce rebalancing charges (3 points), an impact from currency (3 points), and a lower level of IP income (2 points), partially offset by lower spending (4 points) driven by acquisition synergies and operational efficiencies. Total operating (non-GAAP) expense and other (income) increased 3.7 percent year to year, driven primarily by the same factors. 
Operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax income from continuing operations of $5.1 billion increased 0.8 percent year to year and the operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax margin from continuing operations decreased 0.5 points to 13.1 percent. Operating (non-GAAP) income from continuing operations of $5.1 billion increased 2.4 percent and the operating (non-GAAP) income margin from continuing operations of 13.1 percent decreased 0.2 points. The operating (non-GAAP) effective tax rate from continuing operations in the first six months of 2018 was 0.2 percent versus 1.8 percent in the first six months of 2017. 
Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $4.42 increased 2.3 percent year to year. In the first six months of 2018, the company repurchased 11.7 million shares of its common stock and had $2.0 billion remaining in the current share repurchase authorization at June 30, 2018. Operating (non-GAAP) diluted earnings per share of $5.53 increased 4.7 percent versus the prior year. 
· Decreases in total receivables ($4.1 billion) and cash, restricted cash and marketable securities ($0.9 billion); partially offset by 
· Increases in deferred costs ($1.0 billion) primarily driven by capitalized sales commissions ($0.7 billion) related to the adoption of the new revenue standard, as well as increases in retirement plan assets ($0.7 billion). 
· Decreases in taxes payable ($1.4 billion), total debt ($1.3 billion), accounts payable ($0.9 billion) and retirement-related liabilities ($0.8 billion). 
· Increases from net income ($4.1 billion), retirement-related benefit plans ($1.1 billion) and adoption of the new revenue standard ($0.5 billion); partially offset by 
· Decreases from dividends ($2.8 billion) and share repurchases ($1.8 billion). 
The following is an analysis of the second quarter and first six months of 2018 versus the second quarter and first six months of 2017 reportable segment external revenue and gross margin results. Segment pre-tax income includes transactions between the segments that are intended to reflect an arm’s-length transfer price and excludes certain unallocated corporate items. 
Cognitive Solutions revenue of $4,580 million increased 0.5 percent as reported, but declined 1 percent adjusted for currency in the second quarter of 2018 compared to the prior year, with Solutions Software revenue flat as reported but declined adjusted for currency and Transaction Processing Software revenue grew as reported but declined adjusted for currency. Cognitive Solutions second-quarter as-a-Service revenue grew as reported and adjusted for currency, with an annualized run rate of approximately $2 billion. For the first six months of the year, Cognitive Solutions revenue of $8,879 million grew 3.0 percent as reported and was flat adjusted for currency, with growth in Solutions Software both as reported and adjusted for currency. Transaction Processing Software revenue grew as reported, but declined adjusted for currency. 
In the second quarter, Solutions Software revenue of $3,214 million increased 0.6 percent as reported, but declined 1 percent adjusted for currency compared to the prior year. The company continues to scale new platforms, solutions and 
industry verticals and grow its Software-as-a-Service offerings. There was growth in key areas, such as analytics, Watson platforms and industry-specific solutions, which continue to scale. This was offset by transition in other areas, including talent, collaboration and commerce, as the company continues to modernize these offerings in response to secular market shifts. Within Solutions Software, analytics grew year-to-year as reported and adjusted for currency driven by growth in the DB2 portfolio, data science offerings and the new IBM Cloud Private for Data offering, which makes data ready for AI. Within industry solutions, strong growth was led by Watson Financial Services, which leverages businesses expertise to help clients manage increasing regulatory requirements and Watson IoT, as the business continues to embed AI across the IoT portfolio. Transaction Processing Software revenue of $1,366 million was flat as reported, but declined 2 percent adjusted for currency, driven by declines in Storage software partially offset by growth in IBM Z and Power Systems middleware. 
In the second quarter, pre-tax income of $1,756 million increased 9.1 percent compared to the prior year with a pre-tax margin improvement of 2.4 points to 33.2 percent. For the first six months of the year, pre-tax income of $3,089 million increased 7.3 percent compared to the prior year with a pre-tax margin improvement of 1.0 points to 29.8 percent. The year-to-year benefit in the second quarter and the six-month period reflects operational efficiencies and acquisition synergies. The pre-tax margin for the six-month period was also impacted by 1.4 points from a higher level of charges related to workforce rebalancing in the first-quarter 2018. 
Global Business Services revenue of $4,192 million increased 2.3 percent as reported and was flat adjusted for currency in the second quarter of 2018 compared to the prior year. Although the revenue growth rate declined sequentially as reported in the second quarter versus the first quarter of 2018 on a year-to-year basis, there was a 1 point improvement in the second quarter versus the prior quarter on an adjusted for currency year-to-year basis. This was driven by the realization of revenue from the opening backlog at the beginning of the year. The company continued to realign its practice model around key growth platforms including digital transformation, cloud applications and cognitive processes. The digital business had continued growth during the second quarter compared to the prior-year period, driven by its Digital Business Strategy offerings, which help clients drive digital transformation, and Mobile offerings. For the first six months of the year, Global Business Services revenue of $8,365 million increased 3.2 percent as reported, but declined 1 percent adjusted for currency. 
In the second quarter, Consulting revenue of $1,931 million increased 6.0 percent as reported (4 percent adjusted for currency) compared to the prior year led by the company’s offerings in Cloud and Digital. Global Process Services (GPS) revenue of $315 million decreased 1.5 percent as reported (3 percent adjusted for currency) compared to the prior year. Application Management revenue of $1,946 million decreased 0.5 percent as reported (3 percent adjusted for currency). This decline was driven by the traditional Enterprise Application Managed Services, partially offset by growth in strategic offerings such as Cloud Migration Factory and Cloud Application Development. 
Second-quarter 2018 GBS strategic imperatives revenue of $2.7 billion grew 8 percent as reported (6 percent adjusted for currency). Cloud revenue of $1.1 billion grew 10 percent as reported and 8 percent adjusted for currency, with an as-a-Service exit run rate of $1.4 billion. For the first six months of the year, GBS strategic imperatives revenue of $5.2 billion grew 10 percent as reported and 6 percent adjusted for currency year to year. Cloud revenue of $2.1 billion grew 14 percent as reported (10 percent adjusted for currency). 
In the second quarter, Infrastructure Services revenue of $5,768 million increased 4.0 percent as reported (1 percent adjusted for currency) compared to the prior year, driven primarily by improved realization of revenue from backlog as the company shifts clients to the cloud. During the second-quarter 2018, the company announced the expansion of IBM Cloud capabilities to 18 availability zones across the world. This global expansion is important for clients to have the ability to better manage and control their data cloud journey as they implement hybrid cloud especially given increased data regulations. 
Technical Support Services second-quarter revenue of $1,750 million decreased 2.5 percent as reported (4 percent adjusted for currency) due in part to the dynamics of the IBM Z product cycle as clients move from maintenance to warranty for the first year, partially offset by continued growth in core multi-vendor support services. 
Integration Software second quarter revenue of $1,097 million increased 2.8 percent as reported (1 percent adjusted for currency) compared to the prior year driven by good performance in offerings that modernize applications and enable cloud adoption, including IBM Cloud Private. 
decreased 20.9 percent and pre-tax margin decreased 2.3 points to 7.5 percent. The year-to-year pre-tax margin in the first six months of 2018 compared to the prior year included an impact of 1.4 points from a higher level of workforce rebalancing charges in the first quarter which are expected to yield productivity benefits in the second half of 2018. 
The estimated total services backlog at June 30, 2018 was $116 billion, a decrease of 1.6 percent as reported (1 percent adjusted for currency). Global Technology Services (GTS) backlog was essentially flat as reported and adjusted for currency year to year and GBS backlog declined year to year both as reported and adjusted for currency. 
Total services backlog includes Infrastructure Services, Consulting, Global Process Services, Application Management and Technical Support Services. Total backlog is intended to be a statement of overall work under contract which is either non-cancellable, or which historically has very low likelihood of termination, given the criticality of certain services to the company’s clients. Total backlog does not include as-a-Service arrangements that allow for termination under contractual commitment terms. Backlog estimates are subject to change and are affected by several factors, including terminations, changes in the scope of contracts, periodic revalidations, adjustments for revenue not materialized and adjustments for currency. 
Signings include Infrastructure Services, Consulting, Global Process Services and Application Management contracts. Contract extensions and increases in scope are treated as signings only to the extent of the incremental new value. Technical Support Services (TSS) are generally not included in signings as maintenance contracts tend to be more steady state, where revenues equal renewals. Certain longer-term TSS contracts that have characteristics similar to outsourcing contracts are included in signings. 
Systems revenue of $2,177 million grew 24.6 percent as reported (23 percent adjusted for currency) in the second quarter of 2018 compared to the prior year. Systems Hardware revenue of $1,756 million grew 32.2 percent as reported (31 percent adjusted for currency) driven by continued broad-based z14 adoption, growth in Power Systems and a return to growth in Storage Systems, as reported and adjusted for currency. Operating Systems Software revenue of $421 million was essentially flat as reported, but declined 1 percent adjusted for currency compared to the prior year. For the first six months of 2018, Systems revenue of $3,676 million increased 17.0 percent as reported (14 percent adjusted for currency) with strong growth in Systems Hardware both as reported and adjusted for currency driven by IBM Z and Power Systems. Operating Systems Software increased 1.8 percent as reported, but declined 1 percent adjusted for currency, compared to the prior year. 
Second quarter IBM Z revenue grew 114.5 percent as reported (112 percent adjusted for currency) year to year, driven by new workload MIPS. The z14 adoption remained broad based, across most geographies and industries, with new clients added to the platform and existing clients growing and expanding workloads on the platform. The company continues to address emerging workloads across the IBM Z platform including blockchain, machine learning, dev ops and payments. The newly announced single-frame z14 designed specifically for cloud environments had good acceptance by clients during the second quarter. 
Power Systems grew revenue 5.0 percent as reported (4 percent adjusted for currency) year to year, driven by the new POWER9 entry-level portfolio and continued growth in Linux. Power Systems are designed for the cloud environment and provide leadership capability in advanced analytics and data intensive workloads in AI, HANA and UNIX markets. During the second quarter, the U.S. Department of Energy unveiled Summit, the most powerful commercially available supercomputer, built by IBM Systems with POWER9 technology. 
Storage Systems returned to growth in the second quarter with revenue up 3.7 percent as reported (2 percent adjusted for currency) year to year. This growth was geographically broad based and led by double-digit growth in All Flash Arrays. 
In the second quarter of 2018, pre-tax income of $346 million grew 376.8 percent and pre-tax margin increased 10.5 points year to year to 14.3 percent driven primarily by the IBM Z product cycle. For the first six months of the year, pre-tax income of $143 million increased $258 million and pre-tax margin increased 6.8 points year to year to 3.5 percent also due to the IBM Z product cycle, partially offset by actions taken in the first quarter to better position the systems cost structure over the longer term, which impacted the pre-tax margin by 2.7 points. 
Global Financing is a reportable segment that is measured as a stand-alone entity. Global Financing facilitates IBM clients’ acquisition of information technology systems, software and services by providing financing solutions in the areas where the company has the expertise, while generating strong returns on equity. Global Financing also optimizes the recovery of residual values by selling assets sourced from end of lease, leasing used equipment to new clients, or extending lease arrangements with current clients. Sales of equipment include equipment returned at the end of a lease, surplus internal equipment and used equipment purchased externally. Residual value is a risk unique to the financing business and management of this risk is dependent upon the ability to accurately project future equipment values at lease inception. Global Financing has insight into product plans and cycles for the IBM products under lease. Based upon this product information, Global Financing continually monitors projections of future equipment values and compares them with the residual values reflected in the portfolio. 
The year-to-year increases in internal financing revenue in the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 were due to higher asset yields and higher average asset balances. The increases in external financing revenue in the second quarter and first six months of 2018, compared to the same periods in 2017, respectively, were due to higher average asset balances, partially offset by lower asset yields. 
Total sales of used equipment represented 54.0 percent and 52.0 percent of Global Financing’s revenue in the second quarter and first six months of 2018, respectively, compared to 46.9 percent and 48.0 percent in the second quarter and first six months of 2017, respectively. The increases in both periods were due to a higher volume of used equipment sales for internal transactions. The gross profit margin on used sales was 58.3 percent and 50.5 percent in the second quarter of 2018 and 2017, respectively, and 58.6 percent and 51.0 percent in the first six months of 2018 and 2017, respectively. The increase in the gross profit margin was driven by a shift towards higher margin internal equipment sales. 
Global Financing pre-tax income increased 26.8 percent to $357 million in the second quarter of 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, due to higher gross profit of $95 million, partially offset by an increase in expense of $19 million. Pre-tax income increased 23.9 percent to $734 million in the first six months of 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, due to higher gross profit of $154 million, partially offset by an increase in expense of $12 million. The increase in expense for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 was primarily driven by an increase in financing receivables provisions due to higher reserve requirements in the current year. 
Global Financing return on equity was 31.2 percent and 31.9 percent for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively, compared to 26.0 percent and 25.1 percent for the three and six months ended June 30, 2017, respectively. The increase in return on equity in the second quarter and first six months of 2018, compared to the same periods of 2017, was due to the increase in net income, partially offset by an increase in equity. See page 88 for the details of the after-tax income and return on equity calculation. 
Total unguaranteed residual value of leases, including operating leases, was $686 million as of June 30, 2018. In addition to the unguaranteed residual value, on a limited basis, Global Financing will obtain guarantees of the future value of the equipment to be returned at end of lease. Third-party residual value guarantees increase the minimum lease payments as provided for by accounting standards that are utilized in determining the classification of a lease as a sales-type lease, direct financing lease or operating lease. The aggregate asset values associated with the guarantees of sales-type leases were $134 million and $63 million for the financing transactions originated during the quarters ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively and $156 million and $106 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. 
Total revenue of $20,003 million increased 3.7 percent as reported and 2 percent adjusted for currency in the second quarter of 2018 compared to the prior year. Americas revenue of $9,212 million was essentially flat as reported, but grew 1 percent adjusted for currency. EMEA revenue of $6,407 million increased 10.9 percent as reported and 4 percent adjusted for currency. Asia Pacific revenue of $4,384 million increased 1.7 percent as reported and was essentially flat adjusted for currency. 
In EMEA, there was solid growth compared to the prior year. Germany increased 21.6 percent as reported and 13 percent adjusted for currency and the UK increased 10.9 percent as reported and 5 percent adjusted for currency. France increased 17.8 percent as reported and 10 percent adjusted for currency and Spain increased 17.1 percent as reported and 8 percent adjusted for currency. The Middle East and Africa region increased 9.1 percent as reported and 8 percent adjusted for currency. 
Within Asia Pacific, Japan increased 2.7 percent as reported and 1 percent adjusted for currency. Australia increased 7.1 percent and 7 percent adjusted for currency. These increases were largely offset by decreases in India of 11.3 percent (8 percent adjusted for currency) and China of 3.2 percent (7 percent adjusted for currency). 
Operating (non-GAAP) expense decreased 3.2 percent year to year driven primarily by the same factors. 
· Lower spending (4 points). 
Operating (non-GAAP) expense increased 3.0 percent year to year driven primarily by the same factors. 
Bad debt expense increased $20 million year to year in the first six months of 2018. The receivables provision coverage was 1.8 percent at June 30, 2018, an increase of 20 basis points compared to December 31, 2017 and a decrease of 20 basis points from June 30, 2017. 
· The effects of currency (2 points). 
· Higher interest income ($13 million). 
Operating (non-GAAP) other (income) and expense was income of $115 million in the second quarter of 2018, an increase of 44.1 percent year to year. The year-to-year change was driven primarily by the same factors above, excluding the higher non-operating retirement-related costs. 
· Higher interest income ($53 million). 
Interest expense increased $26 million and $56 million year to year in the second quarter and first six months of 2018, respectively. Interest expense is presented in cost of financing in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings if the related external borrowings are to support the Global Financing external business. Overall interest expense (excluding capitalized interest) for the second quarter and first six months of 2018 was $367 million and $713 million, respectively, an increase of $47 million and $101 million versus the comparable prior year periods, primarily driven by a higher average debt balance and higher average interest rates. 
In the second quarter of 2018, total pre-tax retirement-related plan cost increased by $39 million compared to the second quarter of 2017, primarily driven by lower expected return on plan assets ($66 million) and an increase in recognized actuarial losses ($26 million); partially offset by lower interest costs ($52 million). Total cost for the first six months of 2018 increased by $102 million versus the first six months of 2017, primarily driven by lower expected return on plan assets ($114 million) and an increase in recognized actuarial losses ($67 million), partially offset by lower interest costs ($93 million). 
As discussed in the “Operating (non-GAAP) Earnings” section on page 56, the company characterizes certain retirement-related costs as operating and others as non-operating. Utilizing this characterization, operating retirement-related costs in the second quarter of 2018 were $364 million, a decrease of $7 million compared to the second quarter of 2017, primarily driven by lower defined contribution plans cost ($7 million). Non-operating costs of $394 million in the second quarter of 2018 increased $45 million year to year, driven primarily by lower expected return on plan assets ($66 million) and an increase in recognized actuarial losses ($26 million), partially offset by lower interest costs ($52 million). For the first six months of 2018, operating retirement-related costs were $750 million, an increase of $2 million compared to the first six months of 2017. Non-operating costs of $796 million increased $100 million in the first six months of 2018 compared to the prior year, driven primarily by lower expected return on plan assets ($114 million) and an increase in recognized actuarial losses ($67 million); partially offset by lower interest costs ($93 million). 
The continuing operations effective tax rate for the second quarter of 2018 was 13.5 percent, an increase of 8.9 points compared to the second quarter of 2017. The continuing operations effective tax rate for the first six months of 2018 was (4.3) percent, an increase of 1.4 points compared to the first six months of 2017. The operating (non-GAAP) tax rate for the second quarter was 16.0 percent, an increase of 6.7 points compared to the second quarter of 2017. The operating (non-GAAP) tax rate for the first six months of 2018 was 0.2 percent, a decrease of 1.6 points compared to the first six months of 2017. 
At June 30, 2018, the balance sheet remained strong and the company continues to have the financial flexibility to support the business for the long term. Cash, restricted cash and marketable securities at quarter end were $11,926 million. The company continues to manage the investment portfolio to meet its capital preservation and liquidity objectives. Total debt of $45,497 million decreased $1,326 million from December 31, 2017, driven by debt maturities of $3,652 million; partially offset by new debt issuances of $2,535 million. Within total debt, $31,056 million, or approximately 68 percent, is in support of the Global Financing business. In the first six months of 2018, the company generated $6,896 million in cash from operations, compared to $7,421 million in the first six months of 2017. The company has consistently generated strong cash flows from operations and continues to have access to additional sources of liquidity through the capital markets and its credit facilities. 
The assets and debt associated with the Global Financing business are a significant part of the company’s financial position. The financial position amounts appearing on pages 5 and 6 are the consolidated amounts including Global Financing. 
At June 30, 2018, substantially all client and commercial financing assets were IT related assets, and approximately 54 percent of the total external portfolio was with investment grade clients with no direct exposure to consumers. The increase in investment grade year to year (2 points) was driven primarily by rating changes within the existing portfolio, not by changing the company’s approach to the market. This investment grade percentage is based on the credit ratings of the companies in the portfolio. 
The company has a long-standing practice of taking mitigating actions, in certain circumstances, to transfer credit risk to third parties, including credit insurance, financial guarantees, non-recourse borrowings, transfers of receivables recorded as true sales in accordance with accounting guidance or sales of equipment under operating lease. Adjusting for the mitigation actions, the investment grade content would increase by 15 points to 70 percent, an increase of 2 points year to year. 
· An increase of $583 million ($633 million adjusted for currency) in prepaid expenses and other current assets primarily due to the reclassification of certain trade receivables due to the adoption of the new revenue standard. 
· An increase in short-term debt of $659 million ($719 million adjusted for currency) primarily as a result of maturities of $3,601 million; partially offset by reclassifications of $3,774 million from long-term debt to reflect upcoming maturities. 
The total IBM receivables provision coverage was 1.8 percent at June 30, 2018, an increase of 20 basis points compared to December 31, 2017. The majority of the write-offs during the six months ended June 30, 2018 related to Global Financing receivables, which had been previously reserved. 
The following table presents external Global Financing receivables excluding residual values, the allowance for credit losses and immaterial miscellaneous receivables. 
The percentage of Global Financing receivables reserved increased from 1.1 percent at December 31, 2017, to 1.2 percent at June 30, 2018. The increase was driven by the overall decline in gross receivables. Specific reserves decreased 1 percent from $258 million at December 31, 2017, to $255 million at June 30, 2018. Unallocated reserves increased 7 percent from $78 million at December 31, 2017, to $84 million at June 30, 2018. 
Global Financing’s bad debt expense was $20 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018, compared to $6 million for the same period in 2017 due to higher specific reserve requirements in 2018. 
· An increase in retirement plan assets of $732 million ($811 million adjusted for currency) driven by the expected returns on plan assets, partially offset by interest costs. 
· A decrease in retirement and nonpension postretirement liabilities of $758 million driven by a currency impact of $308 million. 
The company’s funding requirements are continually monitored and strategies are executed to manage the overall asset and liability profile. Additionally, the company maintains sufficient flexibility to access global funding sources as needed. 
Total debt of $45,497 million decreased $1,326 million from December 31, 2017, driven by debt maturities of $3,652 million; partially offset by new debt issuances of $2,535 million. 
Non-Global Financing debt of $14,441 million was down $949 million from December 31, 2017 and down $2,186 million from June 30, 2017. 
The debt used to fund Global Financing assets is composed of intercompany loans and external debt. Total debt changes generally correspond with the level of client and commercial financing receivables, the level of cash and cash equivalents, the change in intercompany and external payables and the change in intercompany investment from IBM. The terms of the intercompany loans are set by the company to substantially match the term, currency and interest rate variability underlying the financing receivable and are based on arm’s-length pricing. 
Global Financing provides financing predominantly for the company’s external client assets, as well as for assets under contract by other IBM units. As previously stated, the company measures Global Financing as a stand-alone entity, and accordingly, interest expense relating to debt supporting Global Financing’s external client and internal business is included in the “Global Financing Results of Operations” on page 70 and in note 7, “Segments,” on pages 36 and 37. In the company’s Consolidated Statement of Earnings, the external debt-related interest expense supporting Global Financing’s internal financing to the company is reclassified from cost of financing to interest expense. 
Total equity increased by $923 million from December 31, 2017 primarily due to increases from net income ($4,083 million), an increase in retirement-related amounts ($1,121 million) and transition adjustments related to the adoption of the new revenue standard ($524 million); partially offset by decreases from dividends ($2,819 million) and an increase in treasury stock ($1,859 million) primarily due to share repurchases. 
The company’s cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities, as reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows on page 7, are summarized in the following table. These amounts include the cash flows associated with the Global Financing business. 
· An increase from net purchases of marketable securities and other investments of $327 million. 
The company’s strategies, investments and actions are all made with an objective of optimizing long-term performance. A long-term perspective ensures that the company is well-positioned to take advantage of the major shifts in technology, business and the global economy. 
Over the last several years, the company has been making investments and shifting resources, embedding AI and cloud into its offerings while building new solutions and modernizing its existing platforms. These investments not only drive current performance, but will extend the company’s innovation leadership into the future. The company’s key differentiators are built around three pillars - innovative technology, industry expertise and trust and security, uniquely delivered through an integrated model. 
The company’s results in the second quarter and first six months of 2018 reflect the work that has been done to reposition the business through investment, shifting skills and reallocating capital. These shifts reflect the company’s vision of what clients value in a rapidly re-ordering IT industry, driven by cloud, data and AI. In the second quarter, the company delivered revenue growth, as reported and adjusted for currency, pre-tax income growth (GAAP and operating (non-GAAP)) 
Consistent with the long-term model, the company also expects, over the course of 2018, to continue to acquire key capabilities, remix skills, invest in areas of growth and return value to shareholders. A high level of investment is important as the company continues to build its capabilities in AI, cloud, security and blockchain, among others. The actions taken in the first-quarter 2018 to reposition the business are aligned with this strategy. While there was some benefit in the second quarter, the majority of the benefit from first-quarter workforce rebalancing actions is expected in the second-half 2018. In the second half of 2018, the company will continue to invest in Cloud but will also continue to realize scale efficiencies partially driven by as-a-Service revenue. The company continues to expect expansion of total services margins in the second half. 
Free cash flow realization, which is defined as free cash flow to income from continuing operations (GAAP), is expected to be over 100%. The company continues to expect free cash flow to be approximately $12 billion in 2018. Free cash flow expectations for the year include a year-to-year headwind from strong receivables performance in 2017, a year-to-year headwind from cash tax payments, which has been fully realized by the end of the second quarter, and a full year expected increase in capital expenditures. 
The company expects 2018 pre-tax retirement-related plan cost to be approximately $3.1 billion, an increase of approximately $200 million compared to 2017. This estimate reflects current pension plan assumptions at December 31, 2017. Consistent with the new FASB guidance for the presentation of net periodic pension and postretirement benefit costs, within total retirement-related plan cost, operating retirement-related plan cost is expected to be approximately $1.5 billion, approximately flat versus 2017. Non-operating retirement-related plan cost is expected to be approximately $1.6 billion, an increase of approximately $200 million compared to 2017, driven by lower income from expected return on assets and a year-to-year impact due to the pension obligation adjustment resulting from the successful resolution of the UK pension litigation matter in 2017. Contributions for all retirement-related plans are expected to be approximately $2.4 billion in 2018, approximately flat compared to 2017. 
currency hedging programs for cash management purposes which temporarily mitigate, but do not eliminate, the volatility of currency impacts on the company’s financial results. 
The company translates revenue, cost and expense in its non-U.S. operations at current exchange rates in the reported period. References to “adjusted for currency” or “constant currency” reflect adjustments based upon a simple mathematical formula. However, this constant currency methodology that the company utilizes to disclose this information does not incorporate any operational actions that management could take to mitigate fluctuating currency rates. Currency movements impacted the company’s year-to-year revenue and earnings per share growth in the first six months of 2018. Based on the currency rate movements in the first six months of 2018, total revenue increased 4.4 percent as reported and 0.8 percent at constant currency versus the first six months of 2017. On an income from continuing operations before income tax basis, these translation impacts offset by the net impact of hedging activities resulted in a theoretical maximum (assuming no pricing or sourcing actions) increase of approximately $175 million in the first six months of 2018 on an as-reported basis and an increase of approximately $200 million on an operating (non-GAAP) basis. The same mathematical exercise resulted in no impact as reported and a decrease of approximately $10 million in the first six months of 2017 on an operating (non-GAAP) basis. The company views these amounts as a theoretical maximum impact to its as-reported financial results. Considering the operational responses mentioned above, movements of exchange rates, and the nature and timing of hedging instruments, it is difficult to predict future currency impacts on any particular period, but the company believes it could be substantially less than the theoretical maximum given the competitive pressure in the marketplace. 
In the recent months there have been reported economic events impacting the Argentinean economy, such as significant depreciation of the Argentine peso, increases in interest rates and the Argentine government requesting financial assistance from the International Monetary Fund. The three-year cumulative inflation rates, using a combination of monthly indices, exceeds the 100% threshold for hyperinflation. As a result, effective July 1, 2018, the company changed the functional currency from local currency to U.S. dollar functional for Argentina. The impact from the change is not expected to be material given the size of the company’s operations in the country (less than 1 percent of total 2017 revenue). 
In the company’s 2017 Annual Report, on pages 67 to 70, there is a discussion of the company’s liquidity including two tables that present five years of data. The table presented on page 67 includes net cash from operating activities, cash and marketable securities and the size of the company’s global credit facilities for each of the past five years. For the six months ended, or as of, as applicable, June 30, 2018, those amounts are $6.9 billion for net cash from operating activities, $11.9 billion of cash, restricted cash and marketable securities and $15.3 billion in global credit facilities, respectively. 
The major rating agencies’ ratings on the company’s debt securities at June 30, 2018 appear in the table below. The ratings remain unchanged from December 31, 2017. The company does not have “ratings trigger” provisions in its debt covenants or documentation, which would allow the holders to declare an event of default and seek to accelerate payments thereunder in the event of a change in credit rating. The company’s contractual agreements governing derivative instruments contain standard market clauses which can trigger the termination of the agreement if the company’s credit rating were to fall below investment grade. At June 30, 2018, the fair value of those instruments that were in a liability position was $256 million, before any applicable netting, and this position is subject to fluctuations in fair value period to period based on the level of the company’s outstanding instruments and market conditions. The company has no other contractual arrangements that, in the event of a change in credit rating, would result in a material adverse effect on its financial position or liquidity. 
Management uses free cash flow as a measure to evaluate its operating results, plan share repurchase levels, strategic investments and assess its ability and need to incur and service debt. The entire free cash flow amount is not necessarily available for discretionary expenditures. The company defines free cash flow as net cash from operating activities less the change in Global Financing receivables and net capital expenditures, including the investment in software. A key objective of the Global Financing business is to generate strong returns on equity, and increasing receivables is the basis for growth. Accordingly, management considers Global Financing receivables as a profit-generating investment, not as working capital that should be minimized for efficiency. Therefore, management includes presentations of both free cash flow and net cash from operating activities that exclude the effect of Global Financing receivables. Free cash flow guidance is derived using an estimate of profit, working capital and operational cash outflows. As previously noted, the company views Global Financing receivables as a profit-generating investment which it seeks to maximize and therefore it is not considered when formulating guidance for free cash flow. As a result the company does not estimate a GAAP Net Cash from Operations expectation metric. 
In the first six months of 2018, the company generated free cash flow of $3.2 billion, a decrease of $0.4 billion versus the prior year driven by higher cash taxes and higher capital expenditures, partially offset by working capital performance. Net capital expenditures of $1.9 billion increased $0.3 billion year to year reflecting increased investments to build out global cloud datacenters. In the first six months of 2018, the company continued to focus its cash utilization on returning value to shareholders including $2.8 billion in dividends and $1.8 billion in gross common stock repurchases (11.7 million shares). 
In 2018, the company is not legally required to make any contributions to the U.S. defined benefit plans. 
The company’s U.S. cash flows continue to be sufficient to fund its current domestic operations and obligations, including investing and financing activities such as dividends and debt service. The company’s U.S. operations generate 
substantial cash flows, and, in those circumstances where the company has additional cash requirements in the U.S., the company has several liquidity options available. These options may include the ability to borrow additional funds at reasonable interest rates, utilizing its committed global credit facility, repatriating certain foreign earnings and utilizing intercompany loans with certain foreign subsidiaries. 
Item 4. Controls and Procedures 
Item 1. Legal Proceedings 
Refer to note 13, “Contingencies,” on pages 48 to 50 of this Form 10-Q. 
Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds and Issuer Repurchases of Equity Securities 
The following table provides information relating to the company’s repurchase of common stock for the second quarter of 2018. 
On July 25, 2018, Erich Clementi, Senior Vice President, IBM Global Integrated Accounts, decided to retire from the Company at the end of 2018 at age 60, after a 34 year career with IBM. 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. 
