Item 2.
The references to “adjusted for currency” or “at constant currency” in the Management Discussion do not include operational impacts that could result from fluctuations in foreign currency rates. When the company refers to growth rates at constant currency or adjusts such growth rates for currency, it is done so that certain financial results can be viewed without the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, thereby facilitating period-to-period comparisons of its business performance. Financial results adjusted for currency are calculated by translating current period activity in local currency using the comparable prior year period’s currency conversion rate. This approach is used for countries where the functional currency is the local currency. Generally, when the dollar either strengthens or weakens against other currencies, the growth at constant currency rates or adjusting for currency will be higher or lower than growth reported at actual exchange rates. Refer to “Currency Rate Fluctuations” for additional information.
 In the second quarter of 2019, the company reported $19.2 billion in revenue, $2.5 billion in income from continuing operations and operating (non-GAAP) earnings of $2.8 billion, resulting in diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $2.81 as reported and $3.17 on an operating (non-GAAP) basis. The company also generated 
$2.9 billion in cash from operations, $2.4 billion in free cash flow and delivered shareholder returns of $1.8 billion in gross common stock repurchases and dividends. This performance reflects improving fundamentals as the company continues to focus on investment prioritization shifting to higher value areas and the value the company provides to clients in their digital transformations and journey to the cloud. The company has taken significant actions to improve its position over time including the completion of the two software asset divestitures and workforce actions in the second quarter as well as the acquisition of Red Hat on July 9, 2019. This acquisition is an important milestone for the company, and one that will significantly impact the cloud landscape. It is clear that the next chapter of cloud will be about shifting mission-critical work to the cloud and optimizing everything from supply chains to core banking systems. This requires a hybrid, multicloud, open approach, to provide portability, management consistency and security for enterprise workloads.
 Total expense and other (income) decreased 2.8 percent in the second quarter of 2019 compared to the prior year. The year-to-year performance was driven by gains from the divestitures (9 points), the impact of currency (4 points) and lower non-operating retirement-related costs (4 points), partially offset by a higher level of workforce rebalancing charges (7 points) and higher spending and litigation matters (5 points). Total operating (non-GAAP) expense and other (income) decreased 0.2 percent year to year, driven primarily by the same factors, excluding the non-operating retirement-related costs.
 Pre-tax income from continuing operations of $2.8 billion decreased 0.3 percent and the pre-tax margin was 14.4 percent, an increase of 0.6 points versus the prior-year period. The continuing operations effective tax rate for the second quarter of 2019 was 9.7 percent, a decrease of 3.7 points compared to the second quarter of 2018. The year-to-year change was primarily driven by an increase in tax benefits attributable to foreign audit activity (3.7 points). Net income of $2.5 billion increased 3.9 percent and the net income margin was 13.0 percent, an increase of 1.0 points year to year.
 Operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax income from continuing operations of $3.2 billion decreased 5.9 percent year to year and the operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax margin from continuing operations decreased 0.3 points to 16.6 percent. The operating (non-GAAP) tax rate for the second quarter of 2019 was 11.0 percent, a decrease of 5.0 points compared to the second quarter of 2018. The change in the operating (non-GAAP) tax rate was primarily driven by the same factor mentioned above. Operating (non-GAAP) income from continuing operations of $2.8 billion decreased 0.3 percent with an operating (non-GAAP) income margin from continuing operations of 14.8 percent, up 0.6 points year to year.
 Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $2.81 in the second quarter of 2019 increased 7.7 percent and operating (non-GAAP) diluted earnings per share of $3.17 increased 2.9 percent versus the second quarter of 2018. In the second quarter of 2019, the company repurchased 2.3 million shares of its common stock at a cost of $0.3 billion and had $2.1 billion remaining in the current share repurchase authorization at June 30, 2019.
 Refer to the Looking Forward section for information on the company’s expectations. 
 In the first six months of 2019, the company reported $37.3 billion in revenue, $4.1 billion in income from continuing operations and operating (non-GAAP) earnings of $4.8 billion, resulting in diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $4.58 as reported and $5.42 on an operating (non-GAAP) basis. The company also generated $7.7 billion in cash from operations, $4.1 billion in free cash flow and delivered shareholder returns of $4.1 billion in gross common stock repurchases and dividends.
 Total expense and other (income) decreased 8.4 percent in the first six months of 2019 compared to the prior year. The year-to-year performance was driven by the impact of currency (5 points), gains from divestitures (4 points) and lower non-operating retirement-related costs (4 points), partially offset by a decrease in intellectual property (IP) income 
 Pre-tax income from continuing operations of $4.7 billion increased 18.9 percent and the pre-tax margin was 12.5 percent, an increase of 2.4 points versus 2018. The continuing operations effective tax rate for the first six months of 2019 was 12.0 percent, an increase of 16.3 points compared to the first six months of 2018. The year-to-year change was primarily driven by reduced audit resolution benefits compared to the prior year. Net income of $4.1 billion increased 0.2 percent and the net income margin was 11.0 percent, up 0.5 points year to year. Operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax income from continuing operations of $5.4 billion grew 5.8 percent year to year and the operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax margin from continuing operations increased 1.4 points to 14.5 percent. The operating (non-GAAP) tax rate for the first six months of 2019 was 10.6 percent, an increase of 10.4 points compared to the first six months of 2018. The change in the operating (non-GAAP) tax rate was primarily driven by the same factor mentioned above. Operating (non-GAAP) income from continuing operations of $4.8 billion decreased 5.3 percent with an operating (non-GAAP) income margin from continuing operations of 13.0 percent, down 0.1 points year to year.
 Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $4.58 in the first six months of 2019 increased 3.6 percent and operating (non-GAAP) diluted earnings per share of $5.42 decreased 2.0 percent versus the first six months of 2018. In the first six months of 2019, the company repurchased 9.2 million shares of its common stock at a cost of $1.2 billion. 
●An increase of $34.2 billion in cash, restricted cash and marketable securities, which was subsequently used to fund the Red Hat acquisition on July 9, 2019; and
●An increase in operating right-of-use assets of $5.0 billion resulting from the adoption of the new leasing standard on January 1, 2019; partially offset by
●A decrease in total receivables of $6.6 billion primarily driven by a decline in financing receivables due to the wind down of OEM IT commercial financing operations.
●An increase in operating lease liabilities of $5.3 billion resulting from the adoption of the new leasing standard.
●Increases from net income of $4.1 billion and retirement related plans of $0.8 billion; partially offset by
billion) and a decrease in net capital expenditures ($0.9 billion). In the first six months of 2019, financing activities were a source of cash of $22.9 billion compared to a use of cash of $5.4 billion in the first six months of 2018. The $28.3 billion increase in financing cash flows year to year was driven by an increase in net cash sourced from debt transactions ($27.8 billion) primarily driven by a higher level of issuances to fund the acquisition of Red Hat. 
Cognitive Applications includes software that addresses vertical and domain-specific solutions, increasingly infused with AI. This includes areas such as health, financial services, IOT solutions, The Weather Company and security software and services. In the second quarter, Cognitive Applications revenue of $1,454 million grew 2.9 percent as reported (5 percent adjusted for currency) compared to the prior year, led by strong performance in the integrated security software and services portfolio and growth across many industry vertical solutions. The performance in Security included continued strong results in threat management software and services offerings, as well as managed security intelligence and data security solutions.
In the second quarter, pre-tax income of $2,001 million decreased 1.4 percent compared to the prior year. The pre-tax margin decreased 0.3 points to 32.0 percent in the second quarter, which included an impact of 2.1 points from workforce rebalancing actions in the second quarter of 2019. For the first six months of the year, pre-tax income of $3,768 million increased 1.6 percent compared to the prior year and the pre-tax margin improved 1.0 points to 31.1 percent. The year-to-year improvement in the six-month period reflects strong transactional performance in high-value areas and a lower level of workforce actions year to year, partially offset by lower IP income and ongoing investments in key strategic areas in the first six months of 2019 as compared to the same period in 2018.
Global Business Services revenue of $4,155 million increased 0.5 percent as reported and 3 percent adjusted for currency in the second quarter of 2019 compared to the prior year. Growth was driven by engagement with clients on their digital reinvention journeys to become cloud and cognitive enterprises. GBS brings deep industry expertise, IBM’s 
innovative technology portfolio and third-party IT architectures together to deliver differentiated value to enterprises. For the first six months of the year, Global Business Services revenue of $8,274 million increased 0.3 percent as reported and 4 percent adjusted for currency.
 Global Process Services second-quarter revenue of $258 million was flat as reported, but grew 3 percent adjusted for currency.
Application Management revenue of $1,919 million declined 1.4 percent as reported, but grew 2 percent adjusted for currency compared to the second-quarter 2018. Cloud Migration Factory continued to contribute to growth, offset by continued declines in traditional application management engagements.
GBS second-quarter gross profit margin of 26.0 percent was flat on a year-to-year basis, with contribution from continued mix shift to higher-value offerings and from currency given the global delivery model. This was offset by a higher level of skill capacity investments to capture the market opportunity around Red Hat and digital reinvention. Pre-tax income decreased to $300 million and pre-tax margin decreased 1.7 points to 7.1 percent in the second quarter of 2019 compared to the prior year. Pre-tax margin for the second quarter of 2019 included a 1.5 point impact from workforce rebalancing actions in the second quarter of 2019. For the first six months of the year, pre-tax income of $615 million increased 23.7 percent and the pre-tax margin increased 1.4 points to 7.3 percent. The pre-tax margin for the first six months of 2019 included a lower level of workforce rebalancing charges year to year.
 Global Technology Services revenue of $6,837 million declined 6.7 percent as reported (4 percent adjusted for currency) in the second quarter of 2019 compared to the prior year. This performance reflects the actions the company has been taking to deemphasize lower-value contracts and third-party content, and to focus investments on higher-value segments of the IT market, such as hybrid cloud, to manage the business for increased margin, profit and cash contribution for the longer term. For the first six months of the year, Global Technology Services revenue of $13,711 million declined 7.0 percent as reported (3 percent adjusted for currency).
Systems revenue of $1,753 million decreased 19.5 percent as reported (18 percent adjusted for currency) in the second quarter of 2019 compared to the prior year. Systems Hardware revenue of $1,328 million decreased 24.4 percent as reported (23 percent adjusted for currency). These declines were driven by IBM Z and Storage Systems, reflecting the late stage of the z14 product cycle, partially offset by growth in Power Systems. Operating Systems Software revenue of $425 million grew 1.0 percent as reported (3 percent adjusted for currency) compared to the prior year. For the first six months of 2019, Systems revenue of $3,081 million decreased 16.2 percent as reported (14 percent adjusted for currency) compared to the first six months of 2018, driven by the same factors as the quarter. Operating Systems Software revenue increased 1.4 percent as reported and 4 percent adjusted for currency.
IBM Z revenue declined 41.8 percent as reported (41 percent adjusted for currency) year to year reflecting the product cycle dynamics. The z14, announced two years ago, continued to track ahead of the prior program. Clients 
Power Systems revenue grew 1.0 percent as reported (3 percent adjusted for currency) year to year. There was continued growth in high-end offerings and in Linux with HANA on Power, leveraging the performance of the POWER9-based systems. In the second quarter, the company announced IBM Power Systems Virtual Servers available in the IBM Cloud which provide clients with hybrid cloud scaleup compute for AIX and IBM i workloads. There was continued double-digit growth in the high-end Power systems, partially offset by declines in the low-end and midrange systems, as reported and adjusted for currency.
In the second quarter of 2019, pre-tax income of $61 million declined 82.3 percent and pre-tax margin decreased 11.1 points year to year to 3.2 percent. The pre-tax margin is impacted by the IBM Z product cycle, and also included an impact of 1.5 points from workforce rebalancing actions in the second quarter of 2019. For the first six months of 2019, Systems had a pre-tax loss of $141 million compared to pre-tax income of $143 million in the first six months of the prior year. Pre-tax margin decreased 7.6 points year to year to (4.1) percent, primarily due to the IBM Z product cycle.
Global Financing is a reportable segment that is measured as a stand-alone entity. Global Financing facilitates IBM clients’ acquisition of information technology systems, software and services by providing financing solutions in the areas where the company has the expertise, while generating strong returns on equity. Global Financing also optimizes the recovery of residual values by selling assets sourced from end of lease, leasing used equipment to new clients, or extending lease arrangements with current clients. Sales of equipment include equipment returned at the end of a lease, surplus internal equipment and used equipment purchased externally. Residual value is a risk unique to the financing business and management of this risk is dependent upon the ability to accurately project future equipment values at lease inception. Global Financing has insight into product plans and cycles for the IBM products under lease. Based upon this product information, Global Financing continually monitors projections of future equipment values and compares them with the residual values reflected in the portfolio.
Total sales of used equipment represented 40.1 percent and 38.2 percent of Global Financing’s revenue in the second quarter and first six months of 2019, respectively, compared to 54.0 percent and 52.0 percent in the second quarter and first six months of 2018, respectively. The decrease in both periods was due to lower volumes of both internal and external used equipment sales. The gross profit margin on used sales was 53.7 percent and 58.3 percent in the second quarter of 2019 and 2018, respectively, and 53.0 percent and 58.6 percent in the first six months of 2019 and 2018, respectively. 
Global Financing return on equity was 24.9 percent and 19.2 percent for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 compared to 31.2 percent and 31.9 percent for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018. The decrease in return on equity in both periods was driven by a decline in net income. Net income included higher tax expense in the first quarter of 2019 due to additional guidance issued by the U.S. Treasury regarding the U.S. tax reform repatriation tax. Refer to page 97 for the details of the after-tax income and return on equity calculation.
Total revenue of $19,161 million decreased 4.2 percent as reported and 2 percent adjusted for currency in the second quarter compared to the prior year. Americas revenue of $8,806 million decreased 4.4 percent as reported and 3 percent adjusted for currency. EMEA revenue of $6,149 million decreased 4.0 percent as reported, but increased 1 percent adjusted for currency. Asia Pacific revenue of $4,205 million decreased 4.1 percent as reported and 2 percent adjusted for currency.
Within Americas, the U.S. decreased 4.7 percent compared to the prior year. Canada increased 4.4 percent as reported and 8 percent adjusted for currency. Latin America decreased 9.1 percent as reported and 3 percent adjusted for currency, with Brazil down 22.2 percent as reported and 17 percent adjusted for currency.
Total revenue of $37,342 million decreased 4.4 percent as reported and 1 percent adjusted for currency in the first six months of 2019 compared to the prior year. Americas revenue of $17,299 million decreased 3.5 percent as reported and 2 percent adjusted for currency. EMEA revenue of $11,876 million decreased 5.6 percent as reported and was flat adjusted for currency. Asia Pacific revenue of $8,167 million decreased 4.7 percent as reported and 2 percent adjusted for currency.
Within Americas, the U.S. decreased 3.8 percent compared to the prior year. Canada increased 2.2 percent as reported and 6 percent adjusted for currency. Latin America decreased 6.6 percent as reported, but increased 1 percent adjusted for currency, with Brazil down 14.6 percent as reported and 7 percent adjusted for currency.
Within Asia Pacific, Japan increased 1.9 percent as reported (3 percent adjusted for currency) compared to the prior year. Australia decreased 16.4 percent as reported (9 percent adjusted for currency), China decreased 12.8 percent as reported (9 percent adjusted for currency) and India decreased 11.9 percent as reported (6 percent adjusted for currency).
 Total expense and other (income) decreased 2.8 percent in the second quarter of 2019 versus the prior year primarily due to lower non-operating retirement-related costs ($258 million) as a result of the amortization period change to the U.S. Pension Plan in the first quarter. 
●The effects of currency (2 points).
Operating (non-GAAP) expense increased 11.8 percent year to year primarily driven by the same factors.
Operating (non-GAAP) expense decreased 2.1 percent year to year, also primarily driven by the effects of currency. 
Bad debt expense decreased $16 million year to year in the first six months of 2019. The receivables provision coverage was 1.7 percent at June 30, 2019, an increase of 10 basis points from December 31, 2018 and a decrease of 10 basis points from June 30, 2018.
●The effects of currency (1 point).
●The effects of currency (2 points).
●Lower non-operating retirement-related costs ($258 million). Refer to “Retirement-Related Plans” for additional information; and
●Net exchange gains (including derivative instruments) in the current year versus net exchange losses (including derivative instruments) in the prior year ($120 million). These hedging gains help mitigate currency impacts in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.
●Lower non-operating retirement-related costs ($522 million). Refer to “Retirement-Related Plans” for additional information; and
●Net exchange gains (including derivative instruments) in the current year versus net exchange losses (including derivative instruments) in the prior year ($316 million). These hedging gains help mitigate currency impacts in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.
Interest expense increased $174 million and $220 million year to year in the second quarter and first six months of 2019, respectively. Interest expense is presented in cost of financing in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings if the related external borrowings are to support the Global Financing external business. Overall interest expense (excluding capitalized interest) for the second quarter and first six months of 2019 was $512 million and $901 million, respectively, an increase of $145 million and $188 million versus the comparable prior-year periods, primarily driven by a higher average debt balance and higher average interest rates as the company issued debt for the Red Hat acquisition.
 Total pre-tax retirement-related plan cost decreased by $264 million compared to the second quarter of 2018, driven by a decrease in recognized actuarial losses ($281 million), primarily due to the change in the amortization period in the U.S. Qualified Personal Pension Plan and higher expected return on plan assets ($31 million), partially offset by higher interest costs ($40 million). Total cost for the first six months of 2019 decreased $561 million versus the first six months of 2018, primarily driven by a decrease in recognized actuarial losses ($570 million) primarily due to the amortization period change and higher expected return on plan assets ($57 million); partially offset by higher interest costs ($76 million).
 As described in the “Operating (non-GAAP) Earnings” section, the company characterizes certain retirement-related costs as operating and others as non-operating. Utilizing this characterization, operating retirement-related costs in the second quarter of 2019 were $358 million, a decrease of $6 million compared to the second quarter of 2018. Non-operating costs of $136 million in the second quarter of 2019 decreased $258 million year to year, driven primarily by lower recognized actuarial losses ($281 million) and a higher expected return on plan assets ($31 million), partially offset by higher interest costs ($40 million). For the first six months of 2019, operating retirement-related costs were $711 million, a decrease of $39 million and non-operating costs were $274 million, a decrease of $522 million compared to the prior year, driven primarily by the same factors as above. 
 The continuing operations effective tax rate for the second quarter of 2019 was 9.7 percent, a decrease of 3.7 points compared to the second quarter of 2018. The continuing operations effective tax rate for the first six months of 2019 was 12.0 percent, an increase of 16.3 points compared to the first six months of 2018. The operating (non-GAAP) tax rate for the second quarter of 2019 was 11.0 percent, a decrease of 5.0 points compared to the second quarter of 2018. The operating (non-GAAP) tax rate for the first six months of 2019 was 10.6 percent, an increase of 10.4 points compared to the first six months of 2018. 
 The decrease in the continuing operations effective tax rate in the second quarter of 2019 was primarily driven by an increase in tax benefits attributable to foreign audit activity (3.7 points). The change in the continuing operations tax rate for the first six months of 2019 compared to 2018 was driven by reduced audit resolution benefits. The change in the operating (non-GAAP) tax rate was primarily driven by the same factors. 
At June 30, 2019, the balance sheet remained strong with flexibility to support the business. Cash, restricted cash and marketable securities at quarter end were $46,408 million compared to $12,222 million at December 31, 2018, primarily due to incremental debt issuances to fund the Red Hat acquisition. On July 9, 2019, approximately $34,000 million of cash was used to close the Red Hat acquisition. Total debt of $73,039 million at June 30, 2019 increased 
The assets and debt associated with the Global Financing business are a significant part of the company’s financial position, which reflects the wind down of its OEM IT commercial financing operations. The financial position amounts appearing on pages 5 and 6 are the consolidated amounts including Global Financing.
At June 30, 2019, substantially all client and commercial financing assets were IT related assets, and approximately 57 percent of the total external portfolio was with investment grade clients with no direct exposure to consumers, an increase of 3 points year to year. This investment grade percentage is based on the credit ratings of the companies in the portfolio.
The company has a long-standing practice of taking mitigating actions, in certain circumstances, to transfer credit risk to third parties, including credit insurance, financial guarantees, non-recourse borrowings, transfers of receivables recorded as true sales in accordance with accounting guidance or sales of equipment under operating lease. Adjusting for the mitigation actions, the investment grade content would increase to 69 percent, a decrease of 1 point year to year.
●A decline in receivables of $5,826 million ($5,856 million adjusted for currency) primarily driven by a decline in financing receivables of $6,845 million primarily due to the wind down of OEM IT commercial financing; partially offset by an increase in other receivables of $1,038 million primarily related to divestitures.
The total IBM receivables provision coverage was 1.7 percent at June 30, 2019, an increase of 10 basis points compared to December 31, 2018. The increase was driven by the overall decline in gross receivables. The majority of the write-offs during the six months ended June 30, 2019 related to receivables which had been previously reserved.
The percentage of Global Financing receivables reserved increased from 0.9 percent at December 31, 2018, to 1.2 percent at June 30, 2019. The increase was primarily driven by the overall decline in gross receivables. Unallocated reserves decreased 22 percent from $72 million at December 31, 2018, to $56 million at June 30, 2019. Specific reserves remained relatively flat at $220 million at December 31, 2018, compared to $222 million at June 30, 2019.
Global Financing’s bad debt expense was a release of $9 million for the three months ended June 30, 2019, compared to an addition of $20 million for the same period in 2018, due to lower specific reserves and a higher unallocated reserve release in 2019.
Global Financing’s bad debt expense was a release of $5 million for the six months ended June 30, 2019, compared to an addition of $24 million for the same period in 2018, also due to lower specific reserves and a higher unallocated reserve release in 2019.
●A decrease in long-term financing receivables of $707 million ($751 million adjusted for currency) as a result of seasonal reductions from higher year-end balances.
●Reclassifications to short-term debt of $3,149 million to reflect upcoming maturities.
●An increase in long-term operating lease liabilities of $3,946 million ($3,942 million adjusted for currency) as a result of the adoption of the new leasing standard on January 1, 2019.
Global Financing debt of $24,983 million decreased $6,244 million from December 31, 2018, partially due to the company’s wind down of its OEM IT commercial financing operations.
 Global Financing provides financing predominantly for the company’s external client assets, as well as for assets under contract by other IBM units. These assets, primarily for Global Technology Services, generate long-term, stable revenue streams similar to the Global Financing asset portfolio. Based on their attributes, these Global Technology Services assets are leveraged with the balance of the Global Financing asset base.
The debt used to fund Global Financing assets is composed of intercompany loans and external debt. Total debt changes generally correspond with the level of client and commercial financing receivables, the level of cash and cash equivalents, the change in intercompany and external payables and the change in intercompany investment from IBM. The terms of the intercompany loans are set by the company to substantially match the term, currency and interest rate variability underlying the financing receivable and are based on arm’s-length pricing. The Global Financing debt-to-equity ratio remained at 9.0 to 1 at June 30, 2019.
As previously stated, the company measures Global Financing as a stand-alone entity, and accordingly, interest expense relating to debt supporting Global Financing’s external client and internal business is included in the “Global Financing Results of Operations” and in note 8, “Segments.” In the company’s Consolidated Statement of Earnings, the external debt-related interest expense supporting Global Financing’s internal financing to the company is reclassified from cost of financing to interest expense.
Total equity increased $847 million from December 31, 2018, primarily due to increases from net income ($4,089 million) and retirement-related plans ($760 million); partially offset by decreases from dividends paid ($2,833 million) and an increase in treasury stock ($1,315 million) primarily due to share repurchases.
●An increase of $799 million in cash provided by financing receivables.
●A decrease in cash used for net capital expenditures of $852 million.
The company’s strategies, investments and actions are all made with an objective of optimizing long-term performance. A long-term perspective ensures that the company is well-positioned to take advantage of the major shifts in technology, business and the global economy.
As part of its long-term strategic model, the company expects to continue to allocate capital efficiently and effectively to investments, and to return value to shareholders. Over the last several years, the company has been making investments and shifting resources, embedding AI and cloud into its offerings while building new solutions and modernizing its existing platforms. These investments not only drive current performance, but will extend the company’s innovation leadership into the future. The company’s key differentiators are built around three pillars — innovative technology, industry expertise and trust and security, uniquely delivered through an integrated model.
The company is focused on the next chapter of cloud, which will shift mission-critical work to the cloud and optimize everything from supply chains to core banking systems. To address this opportunity, enterprises need to be able to move and manage data, services, and workflows across multiple clouds and on-premises. They also need to be able to address security concerns, data protection and protocols, availability, and cloud management. This requires a hybrid, multi-cloud, open approach. As a result, the company has been reshaping its business to address this opportunity, investing heavily to build capabilities. 
At closing, Red Hat shareholders were entitled to receive $190 per share in cash, which represented a total equity value of approximately $34 billion and was remitted to the paying agent. The company funded the transaction through a combination of cash on hand and proceeds from debt issuances. The company previously announced its intent to suspend its share repurchase program in 2020 and 2021. Upon closing of the Red Hat acquisition, the company suspended its share repurchase program, which was earlier than previously stated. With the strong free cash flow generated by the company, portfolio actions taken and the suspension of share repurchases, this positions IBM to return to its target leverage ratios within a couple of years. The company will continue with a disciplined financial policy and is committed to maintaining strong investment grade credit ratings and supporting a solid and growing dividend.
IBM’s acquisition of Red Hat brings together the best-in-class hybrid cloud providers and will enable companies to securely unlock the full value of cloud for their businesses. The company has been building hybrid cloud capabilities across the business to address the next chapter of cloud and to prepare for this important milestone. IBM and Red Hat are strongly positioned to address this opportunity and accelerate hybrid cloud adoption. The acquisition of Red Hat reinforces IBM’s high-value model, combining the power and flexibility of Red Hat’s open hybrid cloud technologies with the scale and depth of IBM’s innovation and industry expertise, which is expected to elevate all of IBM as Red Hat grows and the company sells more software and services. 
 As previously stated, the company continues to expect the acquisition of Red Hat, including related activity to be accretive to free cash flow in the first year, and accretive to operating (non-GAAP) earnings per share by the end of the second year after closing. Consistent with the acquisition of a highly profitable software business, non-cash purchase accounting adjustments will result in the acquisition being dilutive to full-year 2019 earnings per share expectations. In an acquisition, U.S. GAAP requires the company to record all assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition 
Beginning in 2019, within the IBM U.S. Qualified Personal Pension Plan, substantially all the plan participants are now considered inactive, which, as required by U.S. GAAP, resulted in a change in the amortization period of unrecognized actuarial losses, from the average remaining service period of active plan participants to the average remaining life expectancy of inactive plan participants. These periods are approximately 6 years and 18 years, respectively. As a result of this change, there will be a reduction to 2019 amortization expense of approximately $900 million. Actuarial loss amortization is reported within non-operating pension costs. There will be no impact to 2019 operating (non-GAAP) retirement-related costs, funded status, retiree benefit payments or funding requirements of the U.S. Qualified Personal Pension Plan. However, there will be an impact to free cash flow realization.
The company expects 2019 pre-tax retirement-related plan cost to be approximately $2.0 billion, a decrease of approximately $1 billion compared to 2018. This estimate reflects current pension plan assumptions at December 31, 2018. Within total retirement-related plan cost, operating retirement-related plan cost is expected to be approximately $1.5 billion, approximately flat versus 2018. Non-operating retirement-related plan cost is expected to be approximately $0.6 billion, a decrease of approximately $1 billion compared to 2018, primarily driven by lower actuarial loss amortization resulting from the change in amortization period for the U.S. plan. Contributions for all retirement-related plans are expected to be approximately $2.3 billion in 2019, approximately flat compared to 2018.
The company translates revenue, cost and expense in its non-U.S. operations at current exchange rates in the reported period. References to “adjusted for currency” or “constant currency” reflect adjustments based upon a simple mathematical formula. However, this constant currency methodology that the company utilizes to disclose this information does not incorporate any operational actions that management could take to mitigate fluctuating currency rates. Currency movements impacted the company’s year-to-year revenue and earnings per share growth in the first six months of 2019. Based on the currency rate movements in the first six months of 2019, total revenue decreased 4.4 
percent as reported and 1.2 percent at constant currency versus the first six months of 2018. On an income from continuing operations before income tax basis, these translation impacts mitigated by the net impact of hedging activities resulted in a theoretical maximum (assuming no pricing or sourcing actions) increase of approximately $160 million in the first six months of 2019 on an as-reported basis and an increase of approximately $140 million on an operating (non-GAAP) basis. The same mathematical exercise resulted in an increase of approximately $175 million in the first six months of 2018 on an as-reported basis and an increase of approximately $200 million on an operating (non-GAAP) basis. The company views these amounts as a theoretical maximum impact to its as-reported financial results. Considering the operational responses mentioned above, movements of exchange rates, and the nature and timing of hedging instruments, it is difficult to predict future currency impacts on any particular period, but the company believes it could be substantially less than the theoretical maximum given the competitive pressure in the marketplace.
In the company’s 2018 Annual Report, on pages 60 to 62, there is a discussion of the company’s liquidity including two tables that present three years of data. The table presented on page 60 includes net cash from operating activities, cash, restricted cash and short-term marketable securities, and the size of the company’s global credit facilities for each of the past three years. For the six months ended, or as of, as applicable, June 30, 2019, those amounts are $7.7 billion of net cash from operating activities, $46.4 billion of cash, restricted cash and short-term marketable securities and $15.3 billion in global credit facilities, respectively.
On July 9, 2019, the company completed the acquisition of all the outstanding shares of Red Hat for $190 per share in cash, representing a total value of approximately $34 billion. The transaction was funded through a combination of cash on hand and proceeds from debt issuances. In order to reduce this debt and return to target leverage ratios within a couple of years, the company suspended its share repurchase program at the time of the Red Hat acquisition closing. Refer to note 13, “Borrowings,” for additional details of financing this transaction.
IBM will continue with a disciplined financial policy and is committed to maintaining strong investment grade credit ratings. The company does not have “ratings trigger” provisions in its debt covenants or documentation, which would allow the holders to declare an event of default and seek to accelerate payments thereunder in the event of a change in credit rating. The company’s contractual agreements governing derivative instruments contain standard market clauses which can trigger the termination of the agreement if the company’s credit rating were to fall below investment grade. At June 30, 2019, the fair value of those instruments that were in a liability position was $589 million, before any applicable netting, and this position is subject to fluctuations in fair value period to period based on the level of the 
In July 2017, the UK's Financial Conduct Authority, which regulates the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR), announced that it intends to phase out LIBOR by the end of 2021. Various central bank committees and working groups continue to discuss replacement of benchmark rates, the process for amending existing LIBOR-based contracts, and the potential economic impacts of different alternatives. The Alternative Reference Rates Committee has identified the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR) as its preferred alternative rate for USD LIBOR. SOFR is a measure of the cost of borrowing cash overnight, collateralized by U.S. Treasury securities, and is based on directly observable U.S. Treasury-backed repurchase transactions. The company is evaluating the potential impact of the replacement of the LIBOR benchmark interest rate, including risk management, internal operational readiness and monitoring the FASB standard-setting process to address financial reporting issues that might arise in connection with transition from LIBOR to a new benchmark rate.
Management uses free cash flow as a measure to evaluate its operating results, plan share repurchase levels, strategic investments and assess its ability and need to incur and service debt. The entire free cash flow amount is not necessarily available for discretionary expenditures. The company defines free cash flow as net cash from operating activities less the change in Global Financing receivables and net capital expenditures, including the investment in software. A key objective of the Global Financing business is to generate strong returns on equity, and increasing receivables is the basis for growth. Accordingly, management considers Global Financing receivables as a profit-generating investment, not as working capital that should be minimized for efficiency. Therefore, management includes presentations of both free cash flow and net cash from operating activities that exclude the effect of Global Financing receivables. Free cash flow guidance is derived using an estimate of profit, working capital and operational cash outflows. As previously noted, the company views Global Financing receivables as a profit-generating investment which it seeks to maximize and therefore it is not considered when formulating guidance for free cash flow. As a result the company does not estimate a GAAP Net Cash from Operations expectation metric.
In the first six months of 2019, the company generated free cash flow of $4.1 billion, an increase of $0.9 billion versus the prior year. In the first six months of 2019, the company continued to focus its cash utilization on returning value to shareholders including $2.8 billion in dividends and $1.2 billion in gross common stock repurchases (9.2 million shares).
In 2019, the company is not legally required to make any contributions to the U.S. defined benefit pension plans.
The company’s cash flows are sufficient to fund its current operations and obligations, including investing and financing activities such as dividends and debt service. When additional requirements arise, the company has several liquidity options available. These options may include the ability to borrow additional funds at reasonable interest rates and utilizing its committed global credit facilities.
Item 4. Controls and Procedures
Item 1. Legal Proceedings
Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds and Issuer Repurchases of Equity Securities
The company’s acquisition of Red Hat on July 9, 2019 was funded through a combination of debt and cash, with incremental debt issued earlier this year. The company suspended its share repurchase program at the time of closing.
