fls.txt
However, the absence of these words or similar expressions does not mean that a statement is not forward-looking.


item1.txt
Mesa Laboratories, Inc. Mesa Laboratories, Inc. Mesa Laboratories, Inc. Mesa Laboratories, Inc. Mesa Laboratories, Inc.
In this quarterly report on Form 10-Q, Mesa Laboratories, Inc., a Colorado corporation, together with its subsidiaries is collectively referred to as “we,” “us,” “our,” the “Company” or “Mesa.” We are organized into four divisions across eight physical locations.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“U.S.
GAAP”) for interim financial information and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
This quarterly report should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements included in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2018.
We have initiated our plan for the adoption and implementation of this new accounting standard, including assessing our lease arrangements, evaluating practical expedients, and making necessary changes to our accounting policies, processes, and internal controls over financial reporting.
We expect to adopt the requirements of ASU 2016-02 beginning April 1, 2019 using the modified retrospective method.
The adoption did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated balance sheets, statements of income, or cash flows.
In March 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-05, Amendments to SEC Paragraphs Pursuant to SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
118.
The amendments also require any provisional amounts or subsequent adjustments to be included in net income from continuing operations.
Additionally, this ASU discusses required disclosures that an entity must make with regard to the TCJA.
This ASU is effective immediately as new information is available to adjust provisional amounts that were previously recorded.
Refer to Note 7 for additional information on the TCJA.


item2.txt
However, caution should be taken not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements because such statements speak only as of the date when made.
We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as required by law.
We pursue a strategy of focusing primarily on quality control products and services, which are sold into niche markets that are driven by regulatory requirements.
We are organized into four divisions across eight physical locations.
Our sterilization and disinfection control division (“SDC” Division) manufactures and sells biological, cleaning, and chemical indicators.
Our Instruments Division designs, manufactures, and markets quality control instruments and disposable products utilized in the healthcare, pharmaceutical, food and beverage, medical device, industrial hygiene, and environmental air sampling industries.
We typically evaluate costs and pricing annually.
Accordingly, it may vary with sales levels.
We are hopeful that we will have new products available for sale in the coming year.
Cold Chain Monitoring revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2018 increased 10 percent primarily due to organic growth of 10 percent.
Cold Chain Packaging revenues increased by 90 percent for the three months ended June 30, 2018.
The increase was primarily due to an increased order rate with the division’s largest customer.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Part II.
See Note 9.


