fls.txt
However, the absence of these words or similar expressions does not mean that a statement is not forward-looking.


item1.txt
We pursue a strategy of focusing primarily on quality control products and services, which are sold into niche markets that are driven by regulatory requirements.
We are organized into four divisions across ten physical locations.
Our Instruments Division designs, manufactures and markets quality control instruments and disposable products utilized in the healthcare, pharmaceutical, food and beverage, medical device, industrial hygiene and environmental air sampling industries.
The accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheet as of  March 31, 2017, has been derived from audited consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the same basis as our annual audited consolidated financial statements and in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”) for interim financial information and the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) for interim financial statements.
In the opinion of management, such unaudited information includes all adjustments (consisting only of normal recurring accruals) necessary for a fair presentation of this interim information.
Our assessment will be completed during the year ending  March 31, 2018.
Based on these facts, we concluded that we had a triggering event requiring assessment of impairment for certain of our long-lived assets associated with the Cold Chain Packaging reporting segment.
The impairment loss was measured using a market approach utilizing an EBITA multiple model.
The remaining goodwill and intangible assets associated with this segment are $1,434,000 and $4,340,000, respectively as of  December 31, 2017.
In  July 2017, we completed the move from the Omaha facility and subsequently sold that building for $1,116,000 (net of commission costs) which resulted in a gain of $116,000 which is included in other expense, net in the accompanying condensed consolidated statements of operations for the nine months ended  December 31, 2017.


item2.txt
Management believes that these forward-looking statements are reasonable as and when made.
Our Instruments Division designs, manufactures and markets quality control instruments and disposable products utilized in the healthcare, pharmaceutical, food and beverage, medical device, industrial hygiene and environmental air sampling industries.
Our Sterilization and Disinfection Control Division (formerly named the Biological Indicators Division) provides testing services, along with the manufacturing and marketing of both biological and cleaning indicators, and the marketing of chemical indicators used to assess the effectiveness of sterilization and disinfection processes in the hospital, dental, medical device and pharmaceutical industries.
Our Cold Chain Monitoring Division designs, develops and markets systems which are used to monitor various environmental parameters such as temperature, humidity and differential pressure to ensure that critical storage and processing conditions are maintained in hospitals, pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers, blood banks, pharmacies and other laboratory and industrial environments.
Our Cold Chain Packaging Division provides packaging development consulting services and thermal packaging products such as coolers, boxes, insulation materials and phase-change products to control temperature during transport.
Our revenues come from two main sources – product sales and services.
Sterilization and Disinfection Control products and many of the packaging products of our Cold Chain Packaging Division are disposable and are used on a routine basis, thus product sales are less sensitive to general economic conditions.
Service demand is driven by our customers’ quality control and regulatory environments, which require periodic repair and recalibration or certification of our instrument products and cold chain monitoring systems.
Gross profit is affected by our product mix, manufacturing efficiencies and price competition.
Selling expense is driven primarily by labor costs, including salaries and commissions.
Accordingly, it may vary with sales levels.
Labor costs and amortization of intangible assets drive the substantial majority of general and administrative expense.
We are hopeful that we will have new products available for sale in the coming year.
Overall revenues declined one percent, while organic revenues declined four percent, for the three months ended December 31, 2017, resulting from organic decreases of nine and 36 percent from the Instruments and Cold Chain Packaging Divisions, respectively, partially offset by increases of seven and three percent for the Sterilization and Disinfection Control and Cold Chain Monitoring Divisions, respectively.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Based on that evaluation, our management concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective at December 31, 2017.


part2.txt
Part II.
Item 1A.


