fls.txt
However, the absence of these words or similar expressions does not mean that a statement is not forward-looking.


item1.txt
Mesa Laboratories, Inc. Mesa Laboratories, Inc. Mesa Laboratories, Inc. Mesa Laboratories, Inc. Mesa Laboratories, Inc.
Our Sterilization and Disinfection Control Division manufactures and sells biological, cleaning, and chemical indicators.
Our Instruments Division designs, manufactures, and markets quality control instruments and disposable products utilized in the healthcare, pharmaceutical, food and beverage, medical device, industrial hygiene, and environmental air sampling industries.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“U.S.
This quarterly report should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements included in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2018.
In August 2018, the SEC issued Release No.
33-10532 that amends and clarifies certain financial reporting requirements.
The principal change to our financial reporting will be the inclusion of the annual disclosure requirement of changes in stockholders’ equity in Rule 3-04 of Regulation S-X to interim periods.
We will adopt this new rule beginning with our financial reporting for the quarter ended December 31, 2018.
We expect to adopt the standard using the optional transition method, which will allow us to apply the standard as of the effective date, therefore we will not apply changes to comparative periods presented in our financial statements.
The adoption did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated balance sheets, statements of income, or cash flows.
118.
We have adopted this standard and will continue to evaluate indicators that may give rise to a change in our tax provision as a result of the TCJA.
Our contracts have varying payment terms and conditions.
We do not have any contract assets.


item2.txt
Item 2.
Management believes that these forward-looking statements are reasonable as and when made.
We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as required by law.
We are organized into four divisions across nine physical locations.
Biological, cleaning, and chemical indicators are used to assess the effectiveness of sterilization and disinfection processes in the hospital, dental, medical device, and pharmaceutical industries.
We typically evaluate costs and pricing annually.
We are hopeful that we will have new products and services available for sale in the coming year.
However, the adoption rate of the product has increased over the past year.
Cold Chain Packaging revenues decreased 11 percent and increased 24 percent for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, as a result of changes in the order rate of the division’s largest customer.
During the three months ended June 30, 2018, the customer’s order rate was higher than usual, resulting in organic growth for the six months ended September 30, 2018.
The higher-than-usual order rate was not sustained in the second quarter, resulting in organic growth declines for the three months ended September 30, 2018.
Excluding the impact of the moving expenses, gross margin percentage for both periods was essentially flat as compared to the prior year.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Part II.


