item1.txt
The preliminary purchase price for accounting purposes is subject to finalization.
We are accounting for the acquisition of Solacom under the acquisition method of accounting in accordance with FASB ASC 805, "Business Combinations."
Our condensed consolidated statements of operations for the three and nine months ended April 30, 2019 include a nominal contribution from Solacom.
This goodwill has been assigned to our Commercial Solutions segment based on specific identification and is generally not deductible for income tax purposes.
On April 29, 2019, we completed the acquisition of a state and local government NG-911 business, pursuant to the Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of April 29, 2019, by and among General Dynamics Information Technology, Inc., Comtech and Comtech NextGen LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of Comtech.
Immediately after our announcement of this acquisition, we hired approximately sixty GD NG-911 employees and commenced the integration of this business into our Commercial Solutions segment’s safety and security technology solutions product line.
The acquisition, contract award and hiring of talented employees are expected to strengthen Comtech’s position in the growing NG-911 solutions market.
We are accounting for the acquisition of this business under the acquisition method of accounting in accordance with FASB ASC 805.
Our condensed consolidated financial results for the three and nine months ended April 30, 2019 included only 2 days of contribution from the GD NG-911 business.
The preliminary fair value of other liabilities was based on the difference in discounted cash flows related to remaining performance obligations under a certain acquired contract as compared to current market terms for similar arrangements that a market participant would expect.


item2.txt
We are a leading provider of advanced communications solutions for both commercial and government customers worldwide.
Our solutions fulfill our customers’ needs for secure wireless communications in some of the most demanding environments, including those where traditional communications are unavailable or cost-prohibitive, and in mission-critical and other scenarios where performance is crucial.
•Commercial Solutions - serves commercial customers and smaller governments, such as state and local governments, that require advanced communication technologies to meet their needs.
We believe this segment is a leading provider of satellite communications (such as satellite earth station modems and traveling wave tube amplifiers ("TWTA") and solid-state power amplifiers ("SSPAs")), public safety systems (such as next generation 911 ("NG-911") technologies) and enterprise application technologies (such as a messaging and trusted location-based technologies).
•Government Solutions - serves large government end-users (including those of foreign countries) that require mission critical technologies and systems.
Continuous transfer of control is typically supported by contract clauses which allow our customers to unilaterally terminate a contract for convenience, pay for costs incurred plus a reasonable profit and take control of work-in-process.
For over time contracts using a cost-to-cost measure of progress, we have an estimate at completion ("EAC") process in which management reviews the progress and execution of our performance obligations.
Since certain contracts extend over a long period of time, the impact of revisions in revenue and or cost estimates during the progress of work may impact current period earnings through a cumulative adjustment.
For service-based contracts in both our enterprise technology solutions and safety and security technology solutions product lines, we recognize revenue over time.
Point in time accounting is principally applied to contracts in our satellite earth station product line (which includes satellite modems, traveling wave tube amplifiers ("TWTAs") and solid-state power amplifiers ("SSPAs")) and solid-state high-power narrow and broadband amplifiers.
); and, although many of our contracts have termination for convenience clauses and or an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date, our performance creates an asset with an alternative use through the point of delivery.
When identifying performance obligations, we consider whether there are multiple promises and how to account for them.
Our contracts, from time-to-time, may also include options for additional goods and services.
The transaction price in certain arrangements may include estimated amounts of variable consideration, including award fees, incentive fees or other provisions that can either increase or decrease the transaction price.
When allocating the contract’s transaction price, we consider each distinct performance obligation.
For contracts with multiple performance obligations, we allocate the contract’s transaction price to each performance obligation using our best estimate of the standalone selling price of each distinct good or service in the contract.
If the standalone selling price is not observable through past transactions, we estimate the standalone selling price taking into account available information such as market conditions, including geographic or regional specific factors, competitive positioning, internal costs, profit objectives and internally approved pricing guidelines related to the performance obligations.
In almost all of our contracts with customers, we are the principal in the arrangement and report revenue on a gross basis.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt



