item1.txt
2017-09 "Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718)" ("ASU 2017-09"), issued in May 2017, which provides guidance about which changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award require an entity to apply modification accounting in ASC Topic 718.
An entity would not be required to account for changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award as a modification if there were no changes to the award’s fair value, vesting conditions and classification.
Using the fair value hierarchy described in FASB ASC 820 "Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures," we valued our cash and cash equivalents using Level 1 inputs that were based on quoted market prices.
Our basic earnings per share ("EPS") is computed based on the weighted average number of common shares (including vested but unissued stock units, share units, performance shares and restricted stock units ("RSUs")), outstanding during each respective period.
Our diluted EPS reflects the dilution from potential common stock issuable pursuant to the exercise of equity-classified stock-based awards, if dilutive, outstanding during each respective period.
Pursuant to FASB ASC 260 "Earnings Per Share," equity-classified stock-based awards that are subject to performance conditions are not considered in our diluted EPS calculations until the respective performance conditions have been satisfied.
When calculating our diluted earnings per share, we consider the amount an employee must pay upon assumed exercise of stock-based awards and the amount of stock-based compensation cost attributed to future services and not yet recognized.
See Note (12) - "Stock-Based Compensation" for more information on the impact of adopting ASU 2016-09.
There were no purchases of our common stock during the nine months ended April 30, 2018 or 2017.


item2.txt
We are a leading provider of advanced communications solutions for both commercial and government customers worldwide.
Our solutions fulfill our customers’ needs for secure wireless communications in some of the most demanding environments, including those where traditional communications are unavailable or cost-prohibitive, and in mission-critical and other scenarios where performance is crucial.
•Commercial Solutions - serves commercial customers and smaller government customers, such as state and local governments, that require advanced communication technologies to meet their needs.
We believe this segment is a leading provider of satellite communications (such as satellite earth station modems and traveling wave tube amplifiers ("TWTA")), public safety systems (such as next generation 911 ("NG911") technologies) and enterprise application technologies (such as messaging and trusted location-based technologies).
•Government Solutions - serves large government end-users (including those of foreign countries) that require mission critical technologies and systems.
A large portion of our revenue from advanced communication solutions is derived from contracts relating to the design, development or manufacture of complex electronic equipment to a buyer’s specification or to provide services relating to the performance of such contracts and is recognized in accordance with FASB ASC 605-35.
For these contracts, we primarily apply the percentage-of-completion accounting method and generally recognize revenue based on the relationship of total costs incurred to total projected costs, or, alternatively, based on output measures, such as units delivered or produced.
Profits expected to be realized on such contracts are based on total estimated sales for the contract compared to total estimated costs, including warranty costs, at completion of the contract.
Long-term U.S. government cost-reimbursable type contracts are also specifically covered by FASB ASC 605-35.
We have been engaged in the production and delivery of goods and services on a continual basis under contractual arrangements for many years.
Historically, we have not experienced material terminations of our long-term contracts.
Historically, we have been able to perform on our long-term contracts.
Revenue recognition for multiple-element arrangements requires judgment to determine if multiple elements exist, whether elements can be accounted for as separate units of accounting, and if so, the fair value for each of the elements.
In summary, we recognize revenue for each separate unit of accounting when the applicable revenue recognition criteria for each element have been met.
In the absence of VSOE of fair value, the fee is allocated among each element based on third-party evidence ("TPE") of fair value, which is determined based on competitor pricing for similar deliverables when sold separately.
We determine ESP for deliverables by considering multiple factors including, but not limited to, prices we charge for similar offerings, market conditions, competitive landscape, and pricing practices.
Each of our two operating segments constitutes a reporting unit and we must make various assumptions in determining their estimated fair values.
In accordance with FASB ASC 350 "Intangibles - Goodwill and Other," we perform a goodwill impairment analysis at least annually (in the first quarter of each fiscal year), unless indicators of impairment exist in interim periods.
2017-04 in fiscal 2017, we would be required to recognize an impairment loss equal to the amount that a reporting unit's carrying value exceeded its fair value; however, any loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
Item 1A.


