We are accounting for the acquisition of Solacom under the acquisition method of accounting in accordance with FASB ASC 805, "Business Combinations" ("ASC 805").
This goodwill has been assigned to our Commercial Solutions segment based on specific identification and is generally not deductible for income tax purposes.
On April 29, 2019, we completed the acquisition of a state and local government NG-911 business pursuant to the Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of April 29, 2019, by and among General Dynamics Information Technology, Inc., Comtech and Comtech NextGen LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of Comtech.
The acquisition of this NG-911 business from GD (the "GD NG-911 business") has a preliminary cash purchase price of $10,000,000 (which is subject to a net working capital adjustment).
Immediately after our announcement of this acquisition, we hired approximately sixty GD NG-911 employees and completed the integration of this business into our Commercial Solutions segment’s public safety and location technologies product line.
The acquisition, contract award and hiring of talented employees are expected to strengthen Comtech’s position in the growing NG-911 solutions market.
We are accounting for the acquisition of this business under the acquisition method of accounting in accordance with FASB ASC 805.
The preliminary fair value of other liabilities was based on the difference in discounted cash flows related to remaining performance obligations under a certain acquired contract as compared to current market terms for similar arrangements that a market participant would expect.We are a leading provider of advanced communications solutions for both commercial and government customers worldwide.
Our solutions fulfill our customers' needs for secure wireless communications in some of the most demanding environments, including those where traditional communications are unavailable or cost-prohibitive, and in mission-critical and other scenarios where performance is crucial.
Prior descriptions of these product lines were updated to reflect such changes.
Continuous transfer of control is typically supported by contract clauses which allow our customers to unilaterally terminate a contract for convenience, pay for costs incurred plus a reasonable profit and take control of work-in-process.
For over time contracts using a cost-to-cost measure of progress, we have an estimate at completion ("EAC") process in which management reviews the progress and execution of our performance obligations.
Since certain contracts extend over a long period of time, the impact of revisions in revenue and or cost estimates during the progress of work may impact current period earnings through a cumulative adjustment.
For service-based contracts in our public safety and location technologies product line, we recognize revenue over time.
); and, although many of our contracts have termination for convenience clauses and or an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date, our performance creates an asset with an alternative use through the point of delivery.
When identifying performance obligations, we consider whether there are multiple promises and how to account for them.
In our contracts, multiple promises are separated if they are distinct, both individually and in the context of the contract.