item1.txt
2016-16 “Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory,” which eliminates a prior exception and now requires an entity to recognize the income tax consequences of an intra-entity transfer of an asset other than inventory (for example, intellectual property and property, plant and equipment) when the transfer occurs.
There was no material impact to our consolidated financial statements (including any cumulative-effect adjustment) and disclosures upon such adoption.
Continuous transfer of control is typically supported by contract clauses which allow our customers to unilaterally terminate a contract for convenience, pay for costs incurred plus a reasonable profit and take control of work-in-process.
For over time contracts using a cost-to-cost measure of progress, we have an estimate at completion (“EAC”) process in which management reviews the progress and execution of our performance obligations.
Since certain contracts extend over a long period of time, the impact of revisions in revenue and or cost estimates during the progress of work may impact current period earnings through a cumulative adjustment.
For service-based contracts in both our enterprise technology solutions and safety and security technology solutions product lines, we recognize revenue over time.
These services are typically recognized as a series of services performed over the contract term using the straight-line method, or based on our customers’ actual usage of the networks and platforms which we provide.
Point in time accounting is principally applied to contracts in our satellite earth station product line (which includes satellite modems, traveling wave tube amplifiers (“TWTAs”) and solid-state power amplifiers ("SSPAs")) and solid-state high-power narrow and broadband amplifiers.
); and, although many of our contracts have termination for convenience clauses and or an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date, our performance creates an asset with an alternative use through the point of delivery.
When identifying performance obligations, we consider whether there are multiple promises and how to account for them.
In our contracts, multiple promises are separated if they are distinct, both individually and in the context of the contract.


item2.txt
We are a leading provider of advanced communications solutions for both commercial and government customers worldwide.
Our solutions fulfill our customers’ needs for secure wireless communications in some of the most demanding environments, including those where traditional communications are unavailable or cost-prohibitive, and in mission-critical and other scenarios where performance is crucial.
•Commercial Solutions - serves commercial customers and smaller governments, such as state and local governments, that require advanced communication technologies to meet their needs.
We believe this segment is a leading provider of satellite communications (such as satellite earth station modems and traveling wave tube amplifiers ("TWTA")), public safety systems (such as next generation 911 ("NG911") technologies) and enterprise application technologies (such as a messaging and trusted location-based technologies).
•Government Solutions - serves large government end-users (including those of foreign countries) that require mission critical technologies and systems.
Continuous transfer of control is typically supported by contract clauses which allow our customers to unilaterally terminate a contract for convenience, pay for costs incurred plus a reasonable profit and take control of work-in-process.
For over time contracts using a cost-to-cost measure of progress, we have an estimate at completion (“EAC”) process in which management reviews the progress and execution of our performance obligations.
For service-based contracts in both our enterprise technology solutions and safety and security technology solutions product lines, we recognize revenue over time.
Modifications to such contracts and or purchase orders, which typically provide for additional quantities or services, are accounted for as a new contract because the pricing for these additional quantities or services are based on standalone selling prices.
); and, although many of our contracts have termination for convenience clauses and or an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date, our performance creates an asset with an alternative use through the point of delivery.
When identifying performance obligations, we consider whether there are multiple promises and how to account for them.
Our contracts, from time-to-time, may also include options for additional goods and services.
The transaction price in certain arrangements may include estimated amounts of variable consideration, including award fees, incentive fees or other provisions that can either increase or decrease the transaction price.
When allocating the contract’s transaction price, we consider each distinct performance obligation.
For contracts with multiple performance obligations, we allocate the contract’s transaction price to each performance obligation using our best estimate of the standalone selling price of each distinct good or service in the contract.
If the standalone selling price is not observable through past transactions, we estimate the standalone selling price taking into account available information such as market conditions, including geographic or regional specific factors, competitive positioning, internal costs, profit objectives and internally approved pricing guidelines related to the performance obligations.
In almost all of our contracts with customers, we are the principal in the arrangement and report revenue on a gross basis.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
Item 1A.


