item1.txt
Revenue for support and maintenance services is recognized based on SSP, which is the renewal price, ratably over the life of the contract, which is generally three to five years.
•Subscriptions to third party content revenue is recognized as a separate performance obligation ratably over the subscription term based on SSP, which is cost plus a reasonable margin.
Revenue is recognized on a monthly basis as the SaaS service is provided to the client over the contract term.
Revenue from professional services is recognized as the services are performed based on SSP.
Deferred revenue represents amounts invoiced to clients for which the services under contract have not been completed and revenue has not been recognized, including annual renewals of certain software subscriptions and customer deposits for implementations to be performed at a later date.
The deferred revenue recorded during the three months ended March 31, 2019 is comprised primarily of the annual renewals of certain software subscriptions billed during the first quarter of each year and deposits collected for future EHR installations.
The deferred revenue recognized as revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 is comprised primarily of the periodic recognition of annual renewals that were deferred until earned and deposits for future EHR installations that were deferred until earned.
Disclosures regarding remaining performance obligations are not considered material as the overwhelming majority of the Company's remaining performance obligations either (a) are related to contracts with an expected duration of one year or less, or (b) exhibit revenue recognition in the amount to which the Company has the right to invoice.
The Company presents basic and diluted earnings per share ("EPS") data for its common stock.
Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the net income attributable to stockholders of the Company by the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period.
Diluted EPS is determined by adjusting the net income attributable to stockholders of the Company and the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period for the effects of all dilutive potential common shares, including awards under stock-based compensation arrangements.
During 2018, performance share awards were granted to certain executive officers and key employees of the Company that will result in the issuance of time-vesting restricted stock if the predefined performance criteria are met.
The awards provide for an aggregate target of 92,386 shares, none of which have been included in the calculation of diluted EPS for the three months ended March 31, 2019 because the related threshold award performance level has not been achieved as of March 31, 2019.


item2.txt
•TruBridge, our third reporting segment, focuses on providing business management, consulting, and managed IT services along with its complete revenue cycle management ("RCM") solution for all care settings, regardless of their primary healthcare information solutions provider.
Through much of our history, we have been able to achieve meaningful long-term revenue growth through sales of healthcare IT systems and related services to existing and new clients within our target market.
Prospectively, our ability to continue to realize long-term revenue growth is largely dependent on our ability to sell new and additional products and services to our existing customer base, including cross-selling opportunities presented between our operating segments, Acute Care EHR, Post-acute Care EHR, and TruBridge.
As a result, retention of existing EHR customers is a key component of our long-term growth strategy by protecting this base of potential cross-sell customers, while at the same time serving as a leading indicator of our market position and stability of revenues and cash flows.
Additionally, as we consider the long-term growth prospects of our business, we are seeking to further stabilize our revenues and cash flows and leverage TruBridge services as a growth agent in light of a relatively mature EHR marketplace.
As a result, we are placing ever-increasing value in further developing our already significant recurring revenue base.
As such, maintaining and growing recurring revenues are additional key components of our long-term growth strategy, aided by the aforementioned focus on customer retention, and include a renewed focus on driving demand for subscriptions for our existing technology solutions.
Once a hospital has installed our solutions, we continue to provide support services to the customer on a continuing basis and make available to the customer our broad portfolio of business management, consulting, and managed IT services, all of which contribute to recurring revenue growth.
The provision of these recurring revenue services typically requires fewer resources than the initial system installation, resulting in increased overall gross margins and operating margins.
This pressure could further encourage adoption of healthcare IT and increase demand for business management, consulting, and managed IT services, as the future success of these healthcare providers is greatly dependent upon their ability to engage patient populations and to coordinate patient care across a multitude of settings, while optimizing operating efficiency along the way.
For those clients not seeking a financing arrangement, the payment schedule of the typical contract is structured to provide for a scheduling deposit due at contract signing, with the remainder of the contracted fees due at various stages of the installation process (delivery of hardware, installation of software and commencement of training, and satisfactory completion of a monthly accounting cycle or end-of-month operation by each respective application, as applicable).
During 2018, total financing receivables increased by $7.8 million which had a significant impact on operating cash flow.


item3.txt
We had $125.1 million of outstanding borrowings under our Amended Credit Facilities with Regions Bank at March 31, 2019.


item4.txt
Item 5.Other Information.
Item 6.Exhibits.


part2.txt
Item 1A.Risk Factors.
Item 5.Other Information.


