fls.txt



item1.txt
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, to clarify the principles for recognizing revenue and to develop a common revenue standard for U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards.
We adopted this new accounting standard codified as Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, and the related amendments ("new revenue standard") during the first quarter of 2018 and have applied it to all contracts using the modified retrospective method, pursuant to which the cumulative effect of initially applying the new revenue standard is recognized as an adjustment to retained earnings and impacted balance sheet line items as of January 1, 2018, the date of adoption.
The balance sheet impact of the deferred revenue related to these fees was an increase of $1.8 million as of the date of adoption.
Also impacting deferred revenue was a decrease of $0.6 million related to previous billings which no longer required deferred recognition as of the date of adoption.
Commissions and contract fulfillment costs related to the implementation of software as a service arrangements are now capitalized and amortized over the expected life of the customer.
Due to the aforementioned changes in assets and liabilities related to the adoption of the new revenue standard, our deferred tax liability increased $0.6 million as of the date of adoption.
This guidance will be effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those years beginning after December 15, 2018, which will be effective for the Company as of the first quarter of our fiscal year ending December 31, 2019.
The estimated impact on the financial statements of implementation of this standard is increased lease assets and lease liabilities in the range of $4 to $6 million as of the anticipated adoption date, January 1, 2019.
The Company enters into contractual obligations to sell perpetual software licenses, installation, conversion, training, hardware and software application support and hardware maintenance services to acute care and post-acute care community hospitals.
Revenue for support and maintenance services is recognized based on SSP, which is the renewal price, ratably over the life of the contact, which is generally three to five years.
• Subscriptions to third party content revenue is recognized as a separate performance obligation ratably over the subscription term based on SSP, which is cost plus a reasonable margin.
• Software as a Service ("SaaS") arrangements for EHR software and related conversion and training services are considered a single performance obligation.


item2.txt
Historically, we have primarily sought revenue growth through sales of healthcare IT systems and related services to existing and new clients within our target market, a strategy that has resulted in a ten-year compounded annual growth rate in legacy revenues (i.e., revenues related to our legacy Evident and TruBridge operations) of approximately 5.9% as of the end of our most recently completed fiscal year.
Important to our potential for continued long-term revenue growth is our ability to sell new and additional products and services to our existing customer base, including cross-selling opportunities presented with the acquisition of Healthland Holding Inc.
("HHI"), the parent company of Healthland, AHT and Rycan Technologies, Inc. We believe that as our combined customer base grows, the demand for additional products and services, including business management, consulting and managed IT services, will also continue to grow, supporting further increases in recurring revenues.
During the fourth quarter of 2017, TruBridge eliminated approximately $0.6 million per quarter of cloud hosting service costs for the HHI customer base by utilizing in-house resources.
During 2017, total financing receivables increased by $15.5 million, which had a significant impact on operating cash flow.
Second, competitor financing options, primarily through accounts receivables management collections and cloud EHR arrangements, have applied pressure to reduce initial customer capital investment requirements for new EHR installations, leading to the offering of long-term lease options.
Unlike our historical perpetual license arrangements under which the related revenue is recognized effectively upon installation, the SaaS arrangements result in revenue being recognized monthly as the services are provided over the term of the arrangement.
result, the effect of this trend on the Company's financial statements is reduced system sales revenues during the period of installation in exchange for increased recurring periodic revenues (reflected in system sales and support revenues) over the term of the SaaS arrangement.
Although we are pursuing other strategic initiatives designed to result in system sales revenue growth in the future in the form of selective expansion into English-speaking international markets, selective expansion within the 100 to 200 bed hospital market, and continued development of new software applications such as our Business Intelligence solution which provides community hospital leaders valuable insight into financial, operational, and clinical data, there can be no guarantee that such initiatives will prove successful or will benefit the Company in a sufficiently timely fashion to offset the short-term effects of the aforementioned narrowing markets.
During the six months ended June 30, 2018, we generated revenues of $138.8 million from the sale of our products and services, compared to $131.8 million during the six months ended June 30, 2017, an increase of 5% that is primarily attributed to TruBridge client growth.
Our net income for the six months ended June 30, 2018 increased by $2.5 million to $4.3 million from the six months ended June 30, 2017 as a result of revenue growth accompanied with improved gross margins of 53%, a 1% increase from the first six months of 2017.
Net cash provided by operating activities decreased by $8.1 million to $7.8 million provided from operations during the six months ended June 30, 2018, primarily due to a reduction of short-term liabilities and other changes in working capital.
Total revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2018 increased slightly $0.2 million, compared to the three months ended June 30, 2017.
We installed our Acute Care EHR solutions at three new hospital clients during the second quarter 2018 (one under a SaaS arrangement, resulting in revenue being recognized ratably over the contractual term) compared to ten new hospital clients during the second quarter 2017 (one under a SaaS arrangement).
The ten new hospital client implementations during the second quarter 2017 marked the highest during a quarter since the HHI acquisition, presenting a particularly difficult comparison versus the current quarter's results and resulting in a $3.7 million, or 60%, decrease in new system implementation revenues.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Item 4.Controls and Procedures.


part2.txt
Item 5.Other Information.


