item1.txt
Operating lease liabilities are recognized at the lease commencement date based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term.
ROU assets related to our operating lease liabilities are measured at lease inception based on the initial measurement of the lease liability, plus any prepaid lease payments and less any lease incentives.
At November 30, 2019, ROU assets of $1.9 billion related to our operating leases are included in other non-current assets; and operating lease liabilities of $584 million are included in other current liabilities, and $1.4 billion are included in other non-current liabilities in our condensed consolidated balance sheets.
Cash flow movements related to our lease activities are included in prepaid expenses and other assets and accounts payable and other liabilities as presented in net cash provided by operating activities in our condensed consolidated statement of cash flows for the six months ended November 30, 2019.
Trade receivables, net of allowance for doubtful accounts, and deferred revenues are reported net of related uncollected deferred revenues in our condensed consolidated balance sheets as of November 30, 2019 and May 31, 2019.
The revenues recognized during the six months ended November 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, that were included in the opening deferred revenues balance as of May 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, were approximately $6.2 billion during each period.
Remaining performance obligations, as defined in Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2019, were $32.8 billion as of November 30, 2019, approximately 60% of which we expect to recognize as revenues over the next twelve months and the remainder thereafter.
We offer certain of our customers the option to acquire our software products, hardware products and services offerings through separate long-term payment contracts.
Restricted cash that was included within cash and cash equivalents as presented within our condensed consolidated balance sheets as of November 30, 2019 and May 31, 2019 and our condensed consolidated statements of cash flows for the six months ended November 30, 2019 and 2018 was nominal.
Acquisition related and other expenses primarily consist of personnel related costs for transitional and certain other employees, integration related professional services, certain business combination adjustments including adjustments after the measurement period has ended and certain other operating items, net.
Non-operating income, net consists primarily of interest income, net foreign currency exchange losses, the noncontrolling interests in the net profits of our majority-owned subsidiaries (primarily Oracle Financial Services Software Limited and Oracle Corporation Japan) and net other income, including net realized gains and losses related to all of our investments, net unrealized gains and losses related to the small portion of our investment portfolio related to our deferred compensation plan, net unrealized gains and losses related to certain equity securities and non-service net periodic pension income (losses).
During the first half of fiscal 2020 and full year of fiscal 2019, we acquired certain companies and purchased certain technology and development assets primarily to expand our products and services offerings.
Based on the trading prices of the $51.6 billion and $56.1 billion of senior notes and the related fair value hedges that we had outstanding as of November 30, 2019 and May 31, 2019, respectively, the estimated fair values of the senior notes and the related fair value hedges using Level 2 inputs at November 30, 2019 and May 31, 2019 were $56.6 billion and $58.4 billion, respectively.
Amounts also include any changes in intangible asset balances for the periods presented that resulted from foreign currency translations.
Pursuant to our business combinations accounting policy, we recorded goodwill adjustments for the effects on goodwill of changes to net assets acquired during the period that such a change is identified, provided that any such change is within the measurement period (up to one year from the date of the acquisition).
The total estimated restructuring costs associated with the 2019 Restructuring Plan are up to $626 million and will be recorded to the restructuring expense line item within our condensed consolidated statements of operations as they are incurred.
All plan adjustments were changes in estimates whereby increases and decreases in costs were generally recorded to operating expenses in the period of adjustments.
Deferred cloud services and license support revenues and deferred hardware revenues substantially represent customer payments made in advance for cloud or support contracts that are typically billed in advance with corresponding revenues generally being recognized ratably over the contractual periods.
Deferred services revenues include prepayments for our services business and revenues for these services are generally recognized as the services are performed.
Deferred cloud license and on-premise license revenues typically resulted from customer payments that related to undelivered products and services or specified enhancements.
In connection with our acquisitions, we have estimated the fair values of the cloud services and license support performance obligations assumed from our acquired companies.
These aforementioned fair value adjustments recorded for obligations assumed from our acquisitions reduced the cloud services and license support deferred revenues balances that we recorded as liabilities from these acquisitions and also reduced the resulting revenues that we recognized or will recognize over the terms of the acquired obligations during the post-combination periods.
cross-currency interest rate swap agreements, which are used to protect us against changes in the fair values of certain of our fixed-rate Euro-denominated borrowings attributable to the movements in benchmark interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates by effectively converting the fixed-rate, Euro-denominated borrowings, including the annual interest payments and the payment of principal at maturity, to variable-rate, U.S. Dollar denominated debt based on LIBOR.
cross-currency swap agreements, which are used to manage foreign currency exchange risk by converting certain of our fixed-rate Euro-denominated borrowings including periodic interest payments and the payment of principal at maturity to fixed-rate U.S. Dollar denominated debt and are accounted for as cash flow hedges pursuant to ASC 815.
Net gains or losses related to these forward contracts are included in non-operating income, net.
The RSUs that were granted during the six months ended November 30, 2019 have vesting restrictions, valuations and contractual lives of a similar nature to those described in Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2019.
Our financial statements have been prepared consistent with this outcome, but we will continue to monitor any ongoing developments, including a potential future appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court, to determine if future changes are required.
Our cloud and license business engages in the sale, marketing and delivery of our applications and infrastructure technologies through cloud and on-premise deployment models, including our cloud services and license support offerings, and our cloud license and on-premise license offerings.
Cloud services and license support revenues are generated from offerings that are typically contracted with customers directly, billed to customers in advance, delivered to customers over time with our revenue recognition occurring over the contractual terms, and renewed by customers upon completion of the contractual terms.
Cloud services and license support contracts provide customers with access to the latest updates to the applications and infrastructure technologies as they become available and for which the customer contracted and also include related technical support services over the contractual term.
Our hardware business also offers hardware support, which provides customers with software updates for the software components that are essential to the functionality of their hardware products, such as Oracle Solaris and certain other software, and can also include product repairs, maintenance services and technical support services.
Applications ecosystem revenues represent the sum of applications related cloud services and license support revenues; and applications related license revenues.
Infrastructure ecosystem revenues represent the sum of infrastructure related cloud services and license support revenues; and infrastructure related license revenues.
After a bench trial on the meaning of the HP Settlement Agreement, the court found that the HP Settlement Agreement required Oracle to continue to develop certain of its software products for use on HP’s Itanium-based servers at no cost to HP.
Thereafter, the court consolidated the two derivative cases and designated the July 18, 2017 complaint as the operative complaint.
The derivative suit is brought by two alleged stockholders of Oracle, purportedly on Oracle’s behalf, against all members of our Board of Directors, and Oracle as a nominal defendant.
Plaintiffs seek a ruling that this case may proceed as a derivative action, a finding that defendants are liable for breaching their fiduciary duties, an order directing defendants to enact corporate reforms, attorneys’ fees and costs, and unspecified equitable relief.
Plaintiff claims that the alleged actions described in the August 10, 2018 class action discussed above caused harm to Oracle, and plaintiff raises further allegations of impropriety relating to Oracle’s stock buybacks and acquisition of NetSuite.


item2.txt
cloud services revenues, which provide customers access to Oracle Cloud applications and infrastructure technologies via cloud-based deployment models that Oracle develops, provides unspecified updates and enhancements for, hosts, manages and supports and that customers access by entering into a subscription agreement with us for a stated period.
The majority of our Oracle Cloud Services arrangements are generally billed in advance of the cloud services being performed; have durations of one to three years; are generally renewed at the customer’s option; and are generally recognized as revenues ratably over the contractual period of the cloud contract or, in the case of usage model contracts, as the cloud services are consumed over time.
Our cloud and license business’ revenue growth is affected by many factors, including the strength of general economic and business conditions; governmental budgetary constraints; the strategy for and competitive position of our offerings; the continued renewal of our cloud services and license support customer contracts by the customer contract base; substantially all customers continuing to purchase license support contracts in connection with their license purchases; the pricing of license support contracts sold in connection with the sales of licenses; the pricing, amounts and volumes of licenses and cloud services sold; and foreign currency rate fluctuations.
Our cloud and license business’ margin has historically trended upward over the course of the four quarters within a particular fiscal year due to the historical upward trend of our cloud and license business’ revenues over those quarterly periods and because the majority of our costs for this business are generally fixed in the short term.
The historical upward trend of our cloud and license business’ revenues over the course of the four quarters within a particular fiscal year is primarily due to the addition of new cloud services and license support contracts to the customer contract base that we generally recognize as revenues ratably; the renewal of existing customers’ cloud services and license support contracts over the course of each fiscal year that we generally recognize as revenues ratably; and the historical upward trend of our cloud license and on-premise license revenues, which we generally recognize at a point in time upon delivery; over those four quarterly periods.
Our hardware business, which represented 9% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis, provides a broad selection of hardware products and hardware-related software products, including Oracle Engineered Systems, servers, storage, industry-specific hardware, operating systems, virtualization, management and other hardware related software, and related hardware support.
Our services business, which represented 8% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis, helps customers and partners maximize the performance of their investments in Oracle applications and infrastructure technologies.
Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, our total revenues increased in the fiscal 2020 periods presented relative to the corresponding prior year periods, due to growth in our cloud and license business’ revenues, which were partially offset by decreases in our hardware revenues and services revenues.
The constant currency increases in our cloud and license revenues during the fiscal 2020 periods presented were attributable to growth in our cloud services and license support revenues as customers purchased our applications and infrastructure technologies via cloud deployment models and license deployment models and renewed their related cloud and license support contracts to continue to gain access to our latest technology and support services.
The constant currency decreases in our hardware revenues during the fiscal 2020 periods presented were due to reductions in our hardware products revenues and hardware support revenues primarily due to the emphasis we placed on the marketing and sale of our cloud-based infrastructure technologies, which resulted in reduced sales volumes of certain of our hardware product lines and also impacted the volume of customers that purchased hardware support contracts.
The constant currency decreases in our services revenues during the fiscal 2020 periods were primarily attributable to decreases in our education services revenues, partially offset by increases in our consulting revenues and advanced customer services revenues.
Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, our total operating expenses were flat in the fiscal 2020 periods presented relative to the corresponding prior year periods.
We incurred higher constant currency cloud services and license support expenses and higher constant currency cloud and license related sales and marketing expenses, both of which resulted primarily from increased headcount and infrastructure expenses to support the increases in our cloud and license business’ revenues; higher constant currency services expenses; and higher constant currency research and development expenses; in each case during the fiscal 2020 periods presented relative to the corresponding prior year periods.
These constant currency expense increases were partially offset by certain expense decreases during the fiscal 2020 periods presented relative to the corresponding prior year periods, primarily lower hardware products costs and a related decrease in hardware sales and marketing costs, both of which aligned to lower hardware revenues; lower restructuring expenses; and lower amortization of intangible assets.
Due to our application of business combination accounting rules, we did not recognize the cloud services and license support revenue amounts as presented in the above table that would have otherwise been recorded by the acquired businesses as independent entities upon delivery of the contractual obligations.
Our cloud and license business engages in the sale, marketing and delivery of our applications and infrastructure technologies through various deployment models, including license support offerings; Oracle Cloud Services offerings; and cloud license and on-premise license offerings.
License support revenues are typically generated through the sale of license support contracts related to cloud licenses and on-premise licenses, are purchased by our customers at their option and are generally recognized as revenues ratably over the contractual term, which is generally one year.
These costs are largely personnel and infrastructure related including the cost of providing our cloud services and license support offerings, salaries and commissions earned by our sales force for the sale of our cloud and license offerings, and marketing program costs.
Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, total revenues from our cloud and license business increased in the fiscal 2020 periods presented, relative to the corresponding prior year periods, due to growth in our cloud services and license support revenues, which was primarily due to increased customer purchases of and renewals of cloud-based services and license support contracts in recent periods for which we delivered such services during the fiscal 2020 periods presented.
In constant currency, our total applications revenues and our total infrastructure revenues each grew during the fiscal 2020 periods presented, each relative to the corresponding prior year periods, as customers continued to deploy our applications technologies and infrastructure technologies through a wide array of different deployment models that we offer to enable customer choice.
In constant currency, total cloud and license expenses increased in the fiscal 2020 periods presented, relative to the corresponding prior year periods, due to higher cloud services and license support expenses and higher sales and marketing expenses, each of which increased during the fiscal 2020 periods presented primarily due to higher employee related expenses from higher headcount, and also due to higher technology infrastructure expenses.
Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, our cloud and license business’ total margins increased during the fiscal 2020 periods presented, relative to the corresponding prior year periods, primarily due to the fiscal 2020 increases in revenues for this business, while total fiscal 2020 margins as a percentage of revenues remained flat in constant currency.
Our hardware business also earns revenues from the sale of hardware support contracts purchased by our customers at their option and are generally recognized as revenues ratably as the hardware support services are delivered over the contractual term, which is generally one year.
Operating expenses associated with our hardware business include the cost of hardware products, which consists of expenses for materials and labor used to produce these products by our internal manufacturing operations or by third-party manufacturers, warranty expenses and the impact of periodic changes in inventory valuation, including the impact of inventory determined to be excess and obsolete; the cost of materials used to repair customer products; the cost of labor and infrastructure to provide support services; and sales and marketing expenses, which are largely personnel related and include variable compensation earned by our sales force for the sales of our hardware offerings.
Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, total hardware revenues decreased in the fiscal 2020 periods presented, relative to the corresponding prior year periods, due to lower hardware products revenues and lower hardware support revenues.
The decreases in hardware products and hardware support revenues in the fiscal 2020 periods presented, relative to the corresponding fiscal 2019 periods presented, were primarily attributable to our continued emphasis on the marketing and sale of our cloud-based infrastructure technologies, which resulted in reduced sales volumes of certain of our hardware product lines and also impacted the volume of hardware support contracts sold in recent periods.
In constant currency, total margin and total margin as a percentage of revenues for our hardware business increased during the fiscal 2020 periods presented, relative to the corresponding prior year periods, primarily due to lower expenses.
Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, our total services revenues decreased during the fiscal 2020 periods presented, relative to the corresponding prior year periods, primarily due to decreases in our education services revenues, partially offset by increases in consulting revenues and advanced customer services revenues.
In constant currency, total services expenses increased in the fiscal 2020 periods presented, relative to the corresponding prior year periods, primarily due to an increase in headcount and related expenses associated with our consulting offerings during the fiscal 2020 periods presented.
In constant currency, total margin and total margin as a percentage of total services revenues decreased during the fiscal 2020 periods presented, relative to the corresponding prior year periods, primarily due to the revenue declines and expense increases for this business in the fiscal 2020 periods presented.
On a constant currency basis, total research and development expenses increased during the fiscal 2020 periods presented, relative to the corresponding prior year periods, primarily due to higher fiscal 2020 stock-based compensation expenses.
Amortization of intangible assets decreased during the fiscal 2020 periods presented, relative to the corresponding prior year periods, due to a reduction in expenses associated with certain of our intangible assets that became fully amortized, partially offset by additional amortization from intangible assets that we acquired in connection with our recent acquisitions.
On a constant currency basis, our non-operating income, net decreased during the fiscal 2020 periods presented, relative to the corresponding prior year periods, primarily due to lower interest income in the fiscal 2020 periods presented, which was primarily attributable to lower average cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities balances during the fiscal 2020 periods presented.
Net cash provided by investing activities increased during the first half of fiscal 2020, primarily due to an increase in the sales and maturities of, and a decrease in the purchases of, marketable securities and other investments during the first half of fiscal 2020 relative to the corresponding prior year period.


part2.txt
Our Board of Directors has approved a program for us to repurchase shares of our common stock.
On September 11, 2019, we announced that our Board of Directors approved an expansion of our stock repurchase program by an additional $15.0 billion.


