item1.txt
License support revenues are typically generated through the sale of license support contracts related to cloud license and on-premise licenses purchased by our customers at their option.
License support contracts provide customers with rights to unspecified software product upgrades, maintenance releases and patches released during the term of the support period and include internet access to technical content, as well as internet and telephone access to technical support personnel.
License support contracts are generally priced as a percentage of the net cloud license and on-premise license fees.
Cloud services revenues include revenues from Oracle Cloud Software-as-a-Service (SaaS), Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS) and Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS) offerings (collectively, Oracle Cloud Services), which deliver applications, platform and infrastructure technologies, respectively, via cloud-based deployment models that we develop functionality for, provide unspecified updates and enhancements for, host, manage and support and that customers access by entering into a subscription agreement with us for a stated period.
Our IaaS offerings also include Oracle Managed Cloud Services, which are designed to provide comprehensive software and hardware  
Cloud license and on-premise license revenues primarily represent amounts earned from granting customers licenses to use our database, middleware, application and industry-specific software products which our customers use for cloud-based, on-premise and other IT environments.
The vast majority of our cloud license and on-premise license arrangements include license support contracts, which are entered into at the customer’s option.
Our hardware support offerings generally provide customers with software updates for the software components that are essential to the functionality of the hardware products purchased and can also include product repairs, maintenance services and technical support services.
We offer these advanced customer support services to Oracle customers to enable increased performance and higher availability of their products and services.
Education services include instructor-led, media-based and internet-based training in the use of our cloud, software and hardware products.
Invoices for cloud license and on-premise licenses and hardware products are generally issued when the license is made available for customer use or upon delivery to the customer of the hardware product.
The transaction price for a contract that is financed through our financing division is adjusted to reflect the time value of money and interest revenue is recorded as a component of non-operating income, net within our condensed consolidated statements of operations based on market rates in the country in which the transaction is being financed.
Revenues from cloud services provided on a subscription basis are generally recognized ratably over the contractual period that the services are delivered, beginning on the date our service is made available to our customers.
We recognize revenue ratably because the customer receives and consumes the benefits of the cloud services evenly throughout the contract period.
Revenues from cloud services provided on a consumption basis, such as metered services, are generally recognized based on the utilization of the services by the customer.
Oracle’s primary performance obligations with respect to license support contracts and hardware support contracts are to provide customers with technical support as needed and unspecified software product upgrades, maintenance releases and patches during the term of the support period when they are available.
Oracle is obligated to make the license and hardware support services available continuously throughout the contract period.
Therefore, revenues for license support contracts and hardware support contracts are generally recognized ratably over the contractual periods that the support services are provided.
Revenues from distinct cloud license and on-premise license performance obligations are generally recognized upfront at the point in time when the software is made available to the customer to download and use.
Revenues from usage-based royalty arrangements for distinct cloud licenses and on-premise licenses are recognized at the point in time when the software end user usage occurs.
The revenues for this combined performance obligation are generally recognized at the point in time that the hardware product is delivered to the customer and ownership is transferred to the customer.
Our cloud licenses and on-premise licenses have not historically been sold on a standalone basis as substantially all customers elect to purchase license support contracts at the time of a cloud license and on-premise license purchase.
License support contracts are generally priced as a percentage of the net fees paid by the customer to access the license.
As a result, the SSP for a cloud license and an on-premise license included in a contract with multiple performance obligations is determined by applying a residual approach whereby all performance obligations within a contract are first allocated a portion of the transaction price based upon their respective SSPs with any residual amount of transaction price allocated to cloud license and on-premise license revenues.
Sales commissions for renewal contracts relating to our cloud-based arrangements are generally deferred and then amortized on a straight-line basis over the related contractual renewal period, which is generally one to three years.
Acquisition related and other expenses consist of personnel related costs and stock-based compensation for transitional and certain other employees, integration related professional services, certain business combination adjustments including certain adjustments after the measurement period has ended and certain other operating items, net.
Non-operating income, net consists primarily of interest income, net foreign currency exchange losses, the noncontrolling interests in the net profits of our majority-owned subsidiaries (primarily Oracle Financial Services Software Limited and Oracle Corporation Japan) and net other income, including net realized gains and losses related to all of our investments, net unrealized gains and losses related to the small portion of our investment portfolio related to our deferred compensation plan, and non-service net periodic pension income (losses).
We offer certain of our customers the option to acquire our software products, hardware products and services offerings through separate long-term payment contracts.
Deferred cloud services and license support revenues and deferred hardware revenues substantially represent customer payments made in advance for cloud or support contracts that are typically billed in advance with corresponding revenues generally being recognized ratably over the contractual periods.
Deferred services revenues include prepayments for our services business and revenues for these services are generally recognized as the services are performed.
Deferred new cloud license and on-premise license revenues typically resulted from customer payments that relate to undelivered products and services or specified enhancements.
In connection with our acquisitions, we have estimated the fair values of the cloud services and license support performance obligations assumed from our acquired companies.
These aforementioned fair value adjustments recorded for obligations assumed from our acquisitions reduced the cloud services and license support deferred revenues balances that we recorded as liabilities from these acquisitions and also reduced the resulting revenues that we recognized or will recognize over the terms of the acquired obligations during the post-combination periods.
cross-currency interest rate swap agreements, which are used to protect us against changes in the fair values of certain of our fixed-rate Euro-denominated borrowings attributable to the movements in benchmark interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates by effectively converting the fixed-rate, Euro-denominated borrowings, including the annual interest payments and the payment of principal at maturity, to variable-rate, U.S. Dollar denominated debt based on LIBOR.
Our cloud and license business engages in the sale, marketing and delivery of our applications, platform and infrastructure technologies through cloud and on-premise deployment models including our cloud services and license support offerings; and our cloud license and on-premise license offerings.
Cloud services and license support revenues are generated from offerings that are typically contracted with customers directly, billed to customers in advance, delivered to customers over time with our revenue recognition occurring over the contractual terms, and renewed by customers upon completion of the contractual terms.
Cloud services and license support contracts provide customers with access to the latest updates to the applications, platform and infrastructure technologies as they become available and for which the customer contracted and related technical support services over the contractual term.
Cloud license and on-premise license revenues represent fees earned from granting customers licenses, generally on a perpetual basis, to use our database and middleware and our applications software products  
We generally recognize revenues at the point in time the software is made available to the customer to download and use, which typically is immediate upon signature of the license contract.
In each fiscal year, our cloud and license business’ contractual activities are typically highest in our fourth fiscal quarter and the related cash flows are typically highest in the following quarter (i.e. in the first fiscal quarter of the next fiscal year) as we receive payments from these contracts.
Our hardware business also offers hardware support, which provides customers with software updates for the software components that are essential to the functionality of their hardware products, such as Oracle Solaris and certain other software, and can also include product repairs, maintenance services and technical support services.
Applications ecosystem revenues represent the sum of applications related cloud services and license support revenues; and applications licenses revenues.
Platform and infrastructure revenues represent the sum of platform and infrastructure related cloud services and license support revenues; and platform and infrastructure licenses revenues.
The court issued a final statement of decision on August 28, 2012, finding that the Hurd Settlement Agreement required Oracle to continue to develop certain of its software products for use on HP’s Itanium-based servers and to port such products at no cost to HP for as long as HP sells those servers (the Phase One Ruling).


item2.txt
Our cloud and license line of business, which represented 81% of our total revenues in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, markets, sells and delivers a broad spectrum of applications, platform and infrastructure technologies through our cloud and license offerings.
cloud services revenues, which includes revenues from Oracle Cloud Software-as-a-Service (SaaS), Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS) and Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS) offerings (collectively, Oracle Cloud Services), which provide customers access to applications, platform and infrastructure technologies via cloud-based deployment models that Oracle develops, provides unspecified updates and enhancements for, hosts, manages and supports and that customers access by entering into a subscription agreement with us for a stated period.
Our cloud and license business’ revenues growth is affected by the strength of general economic and business conditions; governmental budgetary constraints; the strategy for and competitive position of our offerings; our acquisitions; our ability to deliver our cloud services to our customers; the continued renewal of our cloud services and license support customer contracts by the customer contract base; substantially all customers continuing to purchase license support contracts in connection with their license purchases; the pricing of license support contracts sold in connection with the sales of licenses; the pricing, amount and volume of licenses and cloud services sold; and foreign currency rate fluctuations.
Our cloud and license business’ margin has historically trended upward over the course of the four quarters within a particular fiscal year due to the historical upward trend of our cloud license and on-premise license revenues over those quarterly periods and because the majority of our costs for this business are generally fixed in the short term.
The historical upward trend of our cloud license and on-premise license revenues over the course of the four quarters within a particular fiscal year is primarily due to the addition of new cloud services and license support contracts to the customer contract base; the renewal of existing customers’ cloud services and license support contracts over the course of each fiscal year; and the historical upward trend of our cloud license and on-premise license revenues over those four quarterly periods.
Our hardware business, which represented 10% of our total revenues in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, provides a broad selection of hardware products and hardware-related software products including Oracle Engineered Systems, servers, storage, industry-specific hardware, operating systems, virtualization, management and other hardware related software, and related hardware support.
In our discussion of changes in our results of operations from the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the same period of fiscal 2018, we may qualitatively disclose the impact of our acquired products and services (for the one-year period subsequent to the acquisition date) to the growth in certain  
Excluding the effects of unfavorable currency rate fluctuations, our total revenues increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 primarily due to growth in our cloud and license revenues, which were partially offset by decreases in our hardware revenues and services revenues.
The constant currency increase in our cloud and license revenues during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was attributable to growth in our cloud services and license support revenues as customers purchased our applications, platform and infrastructure technologies via cloud and license deployment models and renewed their related contracts to continue to gain access to our latest technology and support services.
The constant currency decrease in our hardware revenues during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was due to the reduction in our hardware products revenues and hardware support revenues primarily due to the emphasis we placed on the marketing and sale of our cloud and license technologies.
Acquisition related and other expenses primarily consist of personnel related costs and stock-based compensation expenses for transitional and certain other employees, integration related professional services, certain business combination adjustments including certain adjustments after the measurement period has ended and certain other operating items, net.
Our cloud and license business engages in the sale, marketing and delivery of our applications, platform and infrastructure technologies through various deployment models including license support offerings; Oracle Cloud Services offerings; and cloud license and on-premise license offerings.
License support revenues are typically generated through the sale of license support contracts related to cloud licenses and on-premise licenses purchased by our customers at their option and are generally recognized as revenues ratably over the contractual term, which is generally one year.
Our cloud services deliver certain of our applications, platform and infrastructure technologies on a subscription basis via cloud-based deployment models that we develop, provide unspecified updates and enhancements for, host, manage and support, and revenues are generally recognized over the contractual term, which is generally one to three years, or in the case of usage model contracts, as the cloud services are consumed.
These costs are largely personnel and infrastructure related including the cost of providing our cloud services and license support offerings, salaries and commissions earned by our sales force for the sale of our cloud and license offerings, and marketing program costs.
Excluding the effects of unfavorable currency rate fluctuations, total revenues from our cloud and license business increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, relative to the corresponding prior year period, due to growth in our cloud services and license support revenues, which was primarily due to increased customer purchases and renewals of cloud-based services and license support services in recent periods for which we delivered such services during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, and due to contributions from our recent acquisitions.
In constant currency, our total applications revenues and our total platform and infrastructure revenues each grew during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, each relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2018, as customers continued to deploy our applications technologies and platform and infrastructure technologies through a wide array of different deployment models that we offer to enable customer choice.
In constant currency, total cloud and license expenses increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2018, primarily due to higher sales and marketing expenses and higher cloud services and license support expenses, both of which increased primarily due to higher employee related expenses from higher headcount.
In addition, our constant currency cloud services and license support expenses increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 due to higher technology infrastructure expenses that supported the growth in our revenues.
Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, our cloud and license segment’s total margin increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2018, primarily due to the increase in revenues for this segment, while total margin as a percentage of revenues decreased slightly due to expenses growth for this segment.
Our hardware business also earns revenues from the sale of hardware support contracts purchased by our customers at their option and are generally recognized as revenues ratably as the hardware support services are delivered over the contractual term, which is generally one year.
Operating expenses associated with our hardware business include the cost of hardware products, which consists of expenses for materials and labor used to produce these products by our internal manufacturing operations or by third-party manufacturers, warranty expenses and the impact of periodic changes in inventory valuation, including the impact of inventory determined to be excess and obsolete; the cost of materials used to repair customer products; the cost of labor and infrastructure to provide support services; and sales and marketing expenses, which are largely personnel related and include variable compensation earned by our sales force for the sales of our hardware offerings.
In constant currency, total margin and total margin as percentage of revenues for our hardware segment increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2018, due to lower expenses.
Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, our total services revenues decreased during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 primarily due to revenue declines in our consulting services.
In constant currency, total services expenses increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 primarily due to an increase in headcount related expenses associated with our consulting offerings.
In constant currency, total margin and total margin as a percentage of total services revenues decreased during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, primarily due to the decrease in revenues for this business.
On a constant currency basis, total research and development expenses were flat in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 relative to the corresponding prior year period.
On a constant currency basis, total general and administrative expenses increased modestly during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, relative to the corresponding prior year period primarily due to higher professional services expenses that were primarily legal related, and higher stock-based compensation.
Amortization of intangible assets increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 relative to the corresponding prior year period due to additional amortization from intangible assets that we acquired in connection with our recent acquisitions, partially offset by a reduction in expenses associated with certain of our intangible assets that became fully amortized.
As the U.S. Dollar generally strengthened against certain major international currencies during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we reported in U.S. Dollars for these subsidiaries decreased on a net basis as of August 31, 2018 relative to what we would have reported using constant currency rates from the May 31, 2018 balance sheet date.


part2.txt
On September 17, 2018, we announced that our Board of Directors approved an expansion of our stock repurchase program by an additional $12.0 billion.


