item1.txt
Operating lease liabilities are recognized at the lease commencement date based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term.
ROU assets related to our operating lease liabilities are measured at lease inception based on the initial measurement of the lease liability, plus any prepaid lease payments and less any lease incentives.
At August 31, 2019, ROU assets of $2.0 billion related to our operating leases are included in other non-current assets; and operating lease liabilities of $587 million are included in other current liabilities; and $1.5 billion are included in other non-current liabilities in our condensed consolidated balance sheets.
Cash flow movements related to our lease activities are included in prepaid expenses and other assets and accounts payables and other liabilities as presented in net cash provided by operating activities in our condensed consolidated statement of cash flows for the three months ended August 31, 2019.
Trade receivables, net of allowance for doubtful accounts, and deferred revenues are reported net of related uncollected deferred revenues in our condensed consolidated balance sheets as of August 31, 2019 and May 31, 2019.
The amount of revenues recognized during each of the three months ended August 31, 2019 and 2018 that were included in the opening deferred revenues balance as of May 31, 2019 and 2018 were each approximately $3.5 billion.
Remaining performance obligations, as defined in Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2019, were $33.8 billion as of August 31, 2019, approximately 61% of which we expect to recognize as revenues over the next twelve months and the remainder thereafter.
Restricted cash that was included within cash and cash equivalents as presented within our condensed consolidated balance sheets as of August 31, 2019 and May 31, 2019 and our condensed consolidated statements of cash flows for the three months ended August 31, 2019 and 2018 was nominal.
Acquisition related and other expenses primarily consist of personnel related costs for transitional and certain other employees, integration related professional services, certain business combination adjustments including adjustments after the measurement period has ended and certain other operating items, net.
Non-operating income, net consists primarily of interest income, net foreign currency exchange losses, the noncontrolling interests in the net profits of our majority-owned subsidiaries (primarily Oracle Financial Services Software Limited and Oracle Corporation Japan) and net other income, including net realized gains and losses related to all of our investments, net unrealized gains and losses related to the small portion of our investment portfolio related to our deferred compensation plan, net unrealized gains and losses related to certain equity securities and non-service net periodic pension income (losses).
Based on the trading prices of the $54.3 billion and $56.1 billion of senior notes and the related fair value hedges that we had outstanding as of August 31, 2019 and May 31, 2019, respectively, the estimated fair values of the senior notes and the related fair value hedges using Level 2 inputs at August 31, 2019 and May 31, 2019 were $59.8 billion and $58.4 billion, respectively.
Pursuant to our business combinations accounting policy, we recorded goodwill adjustments for the effects on goodwill of changes to net assets acquired during the period that such a change is identified, provided that any such change is within the measurement period (up to one year from the date of the acquisition).
The total estimated restructuring costs associated with the 2019 Restructuring Plan are up to $584 million and will be recorded to the restructuring expense line item within our condensed consolidated statements of operations as they are incurred.
All plan adjustments were changes in estimates whereby increases and decreases in costs were generally recorded to operating expenses in the period of adjustments.
Deferred cloud services and license support revenues and deferred hardware revenues substantially represent customer payments made in advance for cloud or support contracts that are typically billed in advance with corresponding revenues generally being recognized ratably over the contractual periods.
Deferred services revenues include prepayments for our services business and revenues for these services are generally recognized as the services are performed.
Deferred cloud license and on-premise license revenues typically resulted from customer payments that related to undelivered products and services or specified enhancements.
In connection with our acquisitions, we have estimated the fair values of the cloud services and license support performance obligations assumed from our acquired companies.
These aforementioned fair value adjustments recorded for obligations assumed from our acquisitions reduced the cloud services and license support deferred revenues balances that we recorded as liabilities from these acquisitions and also reduced the resulting revenues that we recognized or will recognize over the terms of the acquired obligations during the post-combination periods.
Net gains or losses related to these forward contracts are included in non-operating income, net.
We repurchased 89.5 million shares for $5.0 billion during the three months ended August 31, 2019 (including 0.7 million shares for $35 million that were repurchased but not settled) and 212.2 million shares for $10.0 billion during the three months ended August 31, 2018 under the stock repurchase program.
The RSUs that were granted during the three months ended August 31, 2019 have vesting restrictions, valuations and contractual lives of a similar nature to those described in Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2019.
Our cloud and license business engages in the sale, marketing and delivery of our applications and infrastructure technologies through cloud and on-premise deployment models, including our cloud services and license support offerings, and our cloud license and on-premise license offerings.
Cloud services and license support revenues are generated from offerings that are typically contracted with customers directly, billed to customers in advance, delivered to customers over time with our revenue recognition occurring over the contractual terms, and renewed by customers upon completion of the contractual terms.
Cloud services and license support contracts provide customers with access to the latest updates to the applications and infrastructure technologies as they become available and for which the customer contracted and also includes related technical support services over the contractual term.
In each fiscal year, our cloud and license business’ contractual activities are typically highest in our fourth fiscal quarter and the related cash flows are typically highest in the following quarter (i.e., in the first fiscal quarter of the next fiscal year) as we receive payments from these contracts.
Our hardware business provides Oracle Engineered Systems, servers, storage, industry-specific hardware, operating systems, virtualization, management and other hardware-related software to support diverse IT environments.
Our hardware business also offers hardware support, which provides customers with software updates for the software components that are essential to the functionality of their hardware products, such as Oracle Solaris and certain other software, and can also include product repairs, maintenance services and technical support services.
The relative proportion of our total revenues between each geographic region as presented in the table below was materially consistent across each of our operating segments’ revenues for the periods presented.
On June 15, 2011, Hewlett-Packard Company, now Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company (HP), filed a complaint in the California Superior Court, County of Santa Clara against Oracle Corporation alleging numerous causes of action including breach of contract, breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing, defamation, intentional interference with prospective economic advantage, and violation of the California Unfair Business Practices Act. The complaint alleged that when Oracle announced on March 22 and 23, 2011 that it would no longer develop future versions of its software to run on HP’s Itanium-based servers, it breached a settlement agreement signed on September 20, 2010 between HP and Mark Hurd (the Hurd Settlement Agreement), who is our Chief Executive Officer and was both HP’s former chief executive officer and chairman of HP’s board of directors.
After a bench trial on the meaning of the Hurd Settlement Agreement, the court found that the Hurd Settlement Agreement required Oracle to continue to develop certain of its software products for use on HP’s Itanium-based servers at no cost to HP.
Thereafter, the court consolidated the two derivative cases and designated the July 18, 2017 complaint as the operative complaint.
On July 22, 2019, the court permitted plaintiff to file an amended complaint, adding again the defendants who had been dismissed from the case in March 2018.
On August 15, 2019, the SLC filed a letter with the court, stating that the SLC believed that plaintiff should be allowed to proceed with the derivative litigation on behalf of Oracle.
The derivative suit is brought by two alleged stockholders of Oracle, purportedly on Oracle’s behalf, against all members of our Board of Directors, and Oracle as a nominal defendant.
Plaintiffs claim that the alleged actions described in the August 10, 2018 class action discussed above caused harm to Oracle, and that Oracle’s Board members violated their fiduciary duties of care, loyalty, reasonable inquiry, and good faith by failing to prevent this alleged harm.
Plaintiffs seek a ruling that this case may proceed as a derivative action, a finding that defendants are liable for breaching their fiduciary duties, an order directing defendants to enact corporate reforms, attorneys’ fees and costs, and unspecified equitable relief.
Plaintiff claims that the alleged actions described in the August 10, 2018 class action discussed above caused harm to Oracle, and plaintiff raises further allegations of impropriety relating to Oracle’s stock buybacks and acquisition of NetSuite.


item2.txt
Our cloud and license line of business, which represented 83% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis, markets, sells and delivers a broad spectrum of applications and infrastructure technologies through our cloud and license offerings.
cloud services revenues, which provide customers access to Oracle Cloud applications and infrastructure technologies via cloud-based deployment models that Oracle develops, provides unspecified updates and enhancements for, hosts, manages and supports and that customers access by entering into a subscription agreement with us for a stated period.
The majority of our Oracle Cloud Services arrangements are generally billed in advance of the cloud services being performed; have durations of one to three years; are generally renewed at the customer’s option; and are generally recognized as revenues ratably over the contractual period of the cloud contract or, in the case of usage model contracts, as the cloud services are consumed over time.
Our cloud and license business’ revenue growth is affected by many factors, including the strength of general economic and business conditions; governmental budgetary constraints; the strategy for and competitive position of our offerings; our acquisitions; the continued renewal of our cloud services and license support customer contracts by the customer contract base; substantially all customers continuing to purchase license support contracts in connection with their license purchases; the pricing of license support contracts sold in connection with the sales of licenses; the pricing, amounts and volumes of licenses and cloud services sold; and foreign currency rate fluctuations.
Our cloud and license business’ margin has historically trended upward over the course of the four quarters within a particular fiscal year due to the historical upward trend of our cloud and license business’ revenues over those quarterly periods and because the majority of our costs for this business are generally fixed in the short term.
The historical upward trend of our cloud and license business’ revenues over the course of the four quarters within a particular fiscal year is primarily due to the addition of new cloud services and license support contracts to the customer contract base that we generally recognize as revenues ratably; the renewal of existing customers’ cloud services and license support contracts over the course of each fiscal year that we generally recognize as revenues ratably; and the historical upward trend of our cloud license and on-premise license revenues, which we generally recognize at a point in time upon delivery, over those four quarterly periods.
Our hardware business, which represented 9% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis, provides a broad selection of hardware products and hardware-related software products including Oracle Engineered Systems, servers, storage, industry-specific hardware, operating systems, virtualization, management and other hardware related software, and related hardware support.
Hardware support contracts are entered into and renewed at the option of the customer, are generally priced as a percentage of the net hardware products fees and are generally recognized as revenues ratably as the hardware support services are delivered over the contractual terms.
Our services business, which represented 8% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis, helps customers and partners maximize the performance of their investments in Oracle applications and infrastructure technologies.
Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, our total revenues increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2019, due to growth in our cloud and license business’ revenues, which were partially offset by decreases in our hardware revenues and services revenues.
The constant currency increase in our cloud and license revenues during the first quarter of fiscal 2020 was attributable to growth in our cloud services and license support revenues as customers purchased our applications and infrastructure technologies via cloud deployment models and license deployment models and renewed their related cloud and license support contracts to continue to gain access to our latest technology and support services.
The constant currency decreases in our hardware revenues during the first quarter of fiscal 2020 were due to a reduction in our hardware products revenues and hardware support revenues primarily due to the emphasis we placed on the marketing and sale of our cloud-based infrastructure technologies, which resulted in reduced sales volumes of certain of our hardware product lines and also impacted the volume of customers that purchased hardware support contracts.
The constant currency decrease in our services revenues during the first quarter of fiscal 2020 was attributable to decreases in our consulting services and education services revenues, partially offset by increases in our advanced customer services revenues.
We incurred higher constant currency cloud services and license support expenses in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 relative to the corresponding prior year period due to increased headcount and infrastructure expenses that supported the increase in our cloud and license business’ revenues.
This constant currency expense increase was offset by certain expense decreases during the first quarter of fiscal 2020, which primarily consisted of lower hardware products expenses, support costs, and related sales and marketing expenses, all of which aligned to lower hardware revenues; and lower general and administrative expenses, which were primarily related to a $29 million litigation related benefit recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 that we do not expect to recur.
Our cloud and license business engages in the sale, marketing and delivery of our applications and infrastructure technologies through various deployment models including license support offerings; Oracle Cloud Services offerings; and cloud license and on-premise license offerings.
License support revenues are typically generated through the sale of license support contracts related to cloud licenses and on-premise licenses, are purchased by our customers at their option and are generally recognized as revenues ratably over the contractual term, which is generally one year.
Our cloud services deliver applications and infrastructure technologies on a subscription basis via cloud-based deployment models that we develop, provide unspecified updates and enhancements for, host, manage and support, and revenues are generally recognized over the contractual term, which is generally one to three years, or in the case of usage model contracts, as the cloud services are consumed.
These costs are largely personnel and infrastructure related including the cost of providing our cloud services and license support offerings, salaries and commissions earned by our sales force for the sale of our cloud and license offerings, and marketing program costs.
Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, total revenues from our cloud and license business increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, relative to the corresponding prior year period, due to growth in our cloud services and license support revenues, which was primarily due to increased customer purchases of and renewals of cloud-based services and license support contracts in recent periods for which we delivered such services during the first quarter of fiscal 2020.
In constant currency, our total applications revenues and our total infrastructure revenues each grew during the first quarter of fiscal 2020 relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2019, as customers continued to deploy our applications technologies and infrastructure technologies through a wide array of different deployment models that we offer to enable customer choice.
In constant currency, total cloud and license expenses increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, relative to the corresponding prior year period, due to higher cloud services and license support expenses and higher sales and marketing expenses, each of which increased primarily due to higher employee related expenses from higher headcount and due to higher technology infrastructure expenses.
Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, our cloud and license segment’s total margin increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2020, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2019, primarily due to the increase in revenues for this segment, while total margin as a percentage of revenues remained flat.
Our hardware business also earns revenues from the sale of hardware support contracts purchased by our customers at their option and are generally recognized as revenues ratably as the hardware support services are delivered over the contractual term, which is generally one year.
Operating expenses associated with our hardware business include the cost of hardware products, which consists of expenses for materials and labor used to produce these products by our internal manufacturing operations or by third-party manufacturers, warranty expenses and the impact of periodic changes in inventory valuation, including the impact of inventory determined to be excess and obsolete; the cost of materials used to repair customer products; the cost of labor and infrastructure to provide support services; and sales and marketing expenses, which are largely personnel related and include variable compensation earned by our sales force for the sales of our hardware offerings.
In constant currency, total margin for our hardware segment decreased during the first quarter of fiscal 2020, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2019, due to the decline in revenues for this segment.
In constant currency, total margin as a percentage of revenues for this segment increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2020, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2019, due to lower expenses.
Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, our total services revenues decreased during the first quarter of fiscal 2020, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2019, primarily due to decreases in our consulting services and education services revenues, partially offset by increases in advanced customer services revenues.
In constant currency, total services expenses were flat in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
In constant currency, total margin and total margin as a percentage of revenues decreased during the first quarter of fiscal 2020, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2019, due to the decrease in revenues for this business.
On a constant currency basis, total general and administrative expenses decreased in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2019, primarily due to a $29 million litigation related benefit that we do not expect to recur that was recorded during the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and lower stock-based compensation expenses.
As the U.S. Dollar generally strengthened against certain major international currencies on a net basis during the first quarter of fiscal 2020, the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we reported in U.S. Dollars for these subsidiaries decreased on a net basis as of August 31, 2019 relative to what we would have reported using constant currency rates from the May 31, 2019 balance sheet date.
Net cash provided by investing activities increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2020 primarily due to an increase in the sales and maturities of, and a decrease in the purchases of, marketable securities and other investments during the first quarter of fiscal 2020 relative to the corresponding prior year period.


part2.txt
Our Board of Directors has approved a program for us to repurchase shares of our common stock.
On September 11, 2019, we announced that our Board of Directors approved an expansion of our stock repurchase program by an additional $15.0 billion.


