fls.txt
The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto which appear elsewhere herein.


item1.txt
On December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our content delivery and storage business (the “Content Delivery business”) and other related assets to Vecima Networks, Inc. (“Vecima”) pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of October 13, 2017, between the Company and Vecima.
Results of the Content Delivery business are retrospectively reported as discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for all periods presented.
See Note 3 for more information regarding results from discontinued operations.
During the first quarter of our fiscal year 2019 we created Recur Holdings LLC (“Recur Holdings”), a Delaware limited liability company wholly owned by the Company.
LMCS will do business as “LuxeMark Capital” with daily operations led by the three LuxeMark principals.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments of a normal recurring nature which were considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included.
These consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018 filed with the SEC on September 7, 2018.
We meet the SEC’s definition of a “Smaller Reporting Company,” and therefore qualify for the SEC’s reduced disclosure requirements for smaller reporting companies.
The consolidated financial statements include the Company and its subsidiaries.
All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.
The Company allocates the purchase price of the acquisition to the tangible assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and identifiable intangible assets acquired based on their estimated fair values.
The excess of the purchase price over those fair values is recorded as goodwill.
During the measurement period, the Company records adjustments to provisional amounts recorded for assets acquired and liabilities assumed with the corresponding offset to goodwill.


item2.txt
During our fiscal year 2019, the Board dissolved the Investment Committee and established an Asset Management Committee as a standing committee of the Board.
The Asset Management Committee, among other things, continues the work of the former Investment Committee by providing oversight of the Company’s acquisition process and also manages the Company’s ongoing operations and assets (including continued expansion and development of its real estate and merchant cash advance (“MCA”) operations) and those of any subsequently acquired businesses.
The Company holds an 80% interest in LMCS, with the remaining 20% held by LuxeMark.
LMCS will do business as “LuxeMark Capital” with daily operations led by the three LuxeMark principals.
We believe that these activities will enable us to identify, acquire and grow businesses and assets that will maximize value for all of our stockholders.
We work with several financial advisors and consultants and have been able to filter leads and referrals through diverse channels enabling us to review a wide range of opportunities in a variety of industries.
Under the terms of the Purchase Agreement, the Company holds an 80% interest in LMCS, with the remaining 20% held by LuxeMark.
LMCS will do business as “LuxeMark Capital” with daily operations led by the three LuxeMark principals.
A three-member board comprised of two CCUR Holdings executives and one LuxeMark principal will oversee LMCS.
The warrants expire in 10 years and are exercisable at $6.50 per share.


item4.txt



part2.txt
We are not presently involved in any material litigation.
However, we are, from time to time, party to various routine legal proceedings arising out of our business.
In December 2018, we acquired certain advance assets from an MCA originator and funder that is a leader in the MCA sector.
This type of transaction is not characterized or structured as a loan.
Small businesses typically seek these advances for working capital purposes to finance their purchase of inventory or equipment, or to otherwise address immediate business needs.


