fls.txt
Actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
CCUR Holdings was formerly known as Concurrent Computer Corporation and changed its name on January 2, 2018.
In May 2017, we sold our Real-Time business consisting of real-time Linux operating system versions, development and performance optimization tools, simulation software and other system software combined, in many cases, with computer platforms and services.
Prior year information has been adjusted to conform with the current year presentation.
See Note 4 – Discontinued Operations for more information regarding results from discontinued operations.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments of a normal recurring nature which were considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included.
These condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017 filed with the SEC on September 20, 2017.
We meet the SEC’s definition of a “Smaller Reporting Company,” and therefore qualify for the SEC’s reduced disclosure requirements for smaller reporting companies.
The Company determines the appropriate classification of its investments in debt and equity securities at the time of purchase and reevaluates such determinations at each balance sheet date.
Held-to-maturity securities are recorded as either short term or long term in the condensed consolidated balance sheet based on contractual maturity date and are stated at amortized cost.
Marketable securities that are bought and held principally for the purpose of selling them in the near term are classified as trading securities and are reported as fair value, with unrealized gains and losses recognized in earnings.
Debt and marketable equity securities not classified as held-to-maturity or as trading, are classified as available-for-sale, and are carried at fair market value, with the unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, included in the determination of comprehensive income (loss) and reported in stockholders’ equity.
ASU 2016-02 requires a lessee to recognize a lease liability for the obligation to make lease payments and a right-to-use asset for the right to use the underlying asset for the lease term.
For accounting and financial reporting purposes, businesses are generally comprised of three elements; inputs, processes, and outputs.
Integrated sets of assets and activities capable of providing these three elements may not always be considered a business, and the lack of one of the three elements does not always disqualify the set from being a business.
Primarily, the screen requires that when substantially all of the fair value of the gross assets acquired is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or group of similar identifiable assets, the set is not a business.
The amendments contained in ASU 2017-01 are effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017 and may be early adopted for certain transactions that have occurred before the effective date, but only when the underlying transaction has not been reported in the financial statements that have been issued or made available for issuance.
Basic net income (loss) per share is computed by dividing net income (loss) by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during each period.


item2.txt
References to our Form 10-K made throughout this document refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017 as filed with the SEC on September 20, 2017.
In May 2017, we sold our Real-Time business to the RT Purchaser.
The Real-Time business provided real-time Linux operating system variants, development and performance optimization tools, simulation software and other system software combined, in many cases, with computer platforms and services.
Prior to the sale, we sold our Real-Time business products to a wide variety of companies seeking high performance, real-time computer solutions in the defense, aerospace, financial and automotive markets around the world.
If the Investment Committee is unable to identify a suitable acquisition target that is appropriately valued, we may consider alternatives for returning capital to stockholders while we wind up our affairs.
During the third quarter of our fiscal 2018, we and Vecima finalized the calculation of net working capital of the Content Delivery business as of December 31, 2017.
We and Vecima agreed that the surplus net working capital transferred to Vecima under the CDN APA was $812 thousand, and as a result, we returned $658 thousand to Vecima.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Item 4.Mine Safety Disclosures Item 5.Other Information None.


part2.txt
We are not presently involved in any material litigation.
Item 1A.
Additional risk factors are discussed in Part I, Item 1A.
of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017 filed on September 20, 2017, our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended December 31, 2017 filed on February 14, 2018, and in “Risk Factors Relating to the Proposal to Approve the Asset Sale” of our Definitive Proxy Statement filed on November 6, 2017.


