fls.txt
The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto which appear elsewhere herein.
Actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
Substantially all liabilities associated with the Content Delivery business were assigned to Vecima as part of the transaction.
Results of the Content Delivery business are retrospectively reported as discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for all periods presented.
Unless otherwise stated, the information disclosed in the footnotes accompanying the consolidated financial statements refers to continuing operations.
See Note 3 “Discontinued Operations” for more information regarding results from discontinued operations.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments of a normal recurring nature which were considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included.
Marketable securities that are bought and held principally for the purpose of selling them in the near term are classified as trading securities and are reported at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses recognized in earnings.
Debt securities not classified as held-to-maturity or as trading are classified as available-for-sale, and are carried at fair market value, with the unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, included in the determination of comprehensive income and reported in stockholders’ equity.
Each quarter, we review the carrying value of this cash advance, and determine if an impairment reserve is necessary.
As of September 30, 2018, our advance receivable was not impaired.
Basic earnings (loss) per share is computed by dividing income (loss) by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during each year.
Diluted earnings (loss) per share is computed by dividing income (loss) by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding including dilutive common share equivalents.
Under the treasury stock method, incremental shares representing the number of additional common shares that would have been outstanding if the dilutive potential common shares had been issued are included in the computation.
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly fashion between market participants at the measurement date.
Results associated with the Content Delivery business are classified within income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes, in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.


item2.txt
References herein to the “current year period” and the “prior year period” refer to the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Substantially all assets and liabilities associated with the Content Delivery business were assigned to Vecima as part of the transaction.
A special committee of the Board, the Investment Committee, was established upon the signing of the CDN APA for the purpose of considering alternative means to deploy the proceeds of the sale of the Content Delivery business and other corporate assets to maximize long-term value for our stockholders.
We continually identify and evaluate a wide range of opportunities in an effort to reinvest the proceeds of our calendar year 2017 business dispositions and maximize use of other assets such as our NOLs.
We believe that these activities will enable us to identify, acquire and grow businesses and assets that will maximize value for all of our stockholders.
Our acquisition process is focused on identifying fairly- to under-valued businesses that have growth potential.
LuxeMark provides syndication capital or leverage to select funding companies within the sector and hopes to expand its business-to-business strategy by increasing the number of qualified funders to which it provides capital nationwide.
Additionally, the Company will commit up to $10 million of syndication capital under a separate agreement with LuxeMark, which amount shall be placed by LuxeMark with its qualified funders.
The acquisition and deployment of syndication capital are subject to a number of conditions including the negotiation of definitive documentation and completion of CCUR’s due diligence investigation to CCUR’s satisfaction during a 120-day exclusivity period.
We expect that the proposed transaction with LuxeMark will provide the Company with two revenue streams generated through (i) the Company’s 80% membership interest and thereby its pro-rated portion of the fee income earned by LuxeMark on its syndicators’ invested capital and (ii) returns received on the $10 million the Company makes available as a LuxeMark syndicator.
Interest Income on Mortgage Loans.


item4.txt
We conducted an evaluation as of September 30, 2018, under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Item 1A.


