fls.txt
Actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
On February 13, 2019, through our newly formed subsidiary, LM Capital Solutions, LLC (“LMCS”), we closed on a purchase agreement (the “Purchase Agreement”) to acquire the operating assets of LuxeMark Capital, LLC (“Old LuxeMark”) (the “LuxeMark Acquisition”).
LMCS operates through its syndication network to facilitate merchant cash advance (“MCA”) funding by connecting a network of MCA originators (sometimes referred to herein as “funders”) with syndicate participants who provide those originators with capital by purchasing participation interests in funded MCAs.
LMCS does business as “LuxeMark Capital” with daily operations led by the three principals of Old LuxeMark.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments of a normal recurring nature which were considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included.
We reflect recoveries in the reserve for transaction losses as collected.
We have the intent and ability to hold these loans to maturity or payoff and as such, have classified these loans as held-for-investment.
These loans are reported on the balance sheet at the outstanding principal balance adjusted for any charge-offs, allowance for loan losses, and deferred fees or costs.
Land investment assets are stated at acquired cost.
Diluted earnings (loss) per share is computed by dividing net income (loss) by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding including dilutive common share equivalents.
Under the treasury stock method, incremental shares representing the number of additional common shares that would have been outstanding if the dilutive potential common shares had been issued are included in the computation.
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly fashion between market participants at the measurement date.
All highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less when purchased are considered to be cash equivalents.
All cash equivalents are carried at cost less any unamortized premium or discount, which approximates fair value.
All investments with original maturities of more than three months are classified as available-for-sale, trading or held-to-maturity investments.
Interest on securities is recorded in interest income.
Dividends paid by securities are recorded in dividend income.
We used Level 3 inputs to determine the fair value of our preferred stock investments.


item2.txt
The Company began developing its real estate operations during the second half of fiscal year 2018.
Recur currently provides commercial loans to local, regional, and national builders, developers, and commercial landowners and is also acquiring, owning, and managing a portfolio of real property for development.
Recur does not provide consumer mortgages.
Pursuant to the terms of the purchase agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby, the Company holds an 80% interest in LMCS, with the remaining 20% held by LuxeMark Capital, LLC (“Old LuxeMark”).
The SEC defines “critical accounting estimates” as those that require application of management’s most difficult, subjective, or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain and may change in subsequent periods.
Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of commissions, travel, employee salaries, benefits, and consulting fees.
General and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries, benefits, overhead, management travel, administrative personnel, rent, information systems, insurance, accounting, legal services, board of director fees and expenses, and other professional services.
Other interest income is earned on cash overnight sweep accounts and money market deposits, as well as investments in debt securities.
Our net income for the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 increased to $3.5 million, compared to a loss of $3.0 thousand in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019.
MCA Operations Segment Results.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 1A.Risk Factors Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019.


