fls.txt
The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto which appear elsewhere herein.


item1.txt
Substantially all liabilities associated with the Content Delivery business were assigned to Vecima as part of the transaction.
Prior year information has been adjusted to conform with the current year presentation.
Unless otherwise stated, the information disclosed in the footnotes accompanying the consolidated financial statements refers to continuing operations.
See Note 4 – Discontinued Operations for more information regarding results from discontinued operations.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments of a normal recurring nature which were considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included.
We meet the SEC’s definition of a “Smaller Reporting Company,” and therefore qualify for the SEC’s reduced disclosure requirements for smaller reporting companies.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
We are currently evaluating the effect that ASU 2016-02 will have on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
The amendments in this update should be applied retrospectively to all periods presented, unless deemed impracticable, in which case, prospective application is permitted.
For accounting and financial reporting purposes, businesses are generally comprised of three elements; inputs, processes, and outputs.
Integrated sets of assets and activities capable of providing these three elements may not always be considered a business, and the lack of one of the three elements does not always disqualify the set from being a business.
Primarily, the screen requires that when substantially all of the fair value of the gross assets acquired is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or group of similar identifiable assets, the set is not a business.
Basic net income (loss) per share is computed by dividing net income (loss) by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during each period.
Diluted net income (loss) per share is computed by dividing net income (loss) by the weighted average number of shares, including dilutive common share equivalents outstanding during each period.
Under the treasury stock method, incremental shares representing the number of additional common shares that would have been outstanding if the dilutive potential common shares had been issued are included in the computation.
Additionally, we may receive additional consideration, or be required to return a portion of the consideration received on the closing date, based on a final determination of the Content Delivery business’ net working capital as of the closing date.


item2.txt
References herein to “CCUR Holdings,” the “Company,” “we,” “our” or “us” refer to CCUR Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries unless the context specifically indicates otherwise.
References to our Form 10-K made throughout this document refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017 as filed with the SEC on September 20, 2017.
On December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our Content Delivery business to Vecima.
In May 2017, we sold our Real-Time business to the RT Purchaser.
The Real-Time business provided real-time Linux operating system variants, development and performance optimization tools, simulation software and other system software combined, in many cases, with computer platforms and services.
Prior to the sale, we sold our Real-Time business products to a wide variety of companies seeking high performance, real-time computer solutions in the defense, aerospace, financial and automotive markets around the world.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Item 4.Mine Safety Disclosures Item 5.Other Information None.


part2.txt
We are not presently involved in any material litigation.
However, we are, from time to time, party to various routine legal proceedings arising out of our business.
Additional risk factors are discussed in Part I, Item 1A.
Except as discussed below, there have been no material changes to our risk factors as previously disclosed.
If the Investment Committee is unable to identify a suitable acquisition target that is appropriately valued, we may consider alternatives for returning capital to stockholders while we wind up our affairs.


