Overview  
Our Company 
NetApp is the data authority for hybrid cloud. We provide a full range of hybrid cloud data services that simplify management of applications and data across cloud and on-premises environments to accelerate digital transformation. Together with our partners, we empower global organizations to unleash the full potential of their data to expand customer touchpoints, foster greater innovation and optimize their operations. 
NetApp delivers a Data Fabric built for the data-driven world. Our Data Fabric simplifies the integration and orchestration of data for applications and analytics in clouds, across clouds and on-premises to accelerate digital transformation. We deliver a Data Fabric with consistent data services for data visibility and insights, data access and control, and data protection and security, that unleashes the power of data to achieve a new competitive advantage.  
We focus on delivering an exceptional customer experience to become our customers’ preferred data partner. NetApp’s unique approach to data services enables organizations to inspire innovation with the cloud, build clouds to accelerate new services, and modernize IT architecture with cloud-connected flash. 
Continually fuel business growth by delivering data-rich customer experiences through new application deployments that easily use data and services regardless of where they reside or in what form.  
Accelerate digital transformation by developing a next-generation, cloud-architected infrastructure that manages data and services as one integrated resource supporting both public and private clouds. 
Free the resources necessary to fund transformation by deploying the industry’s leading flash storage solution, which is highly efficient and scales from the edge to the core to the cloud. 
Customers are attracted by the speed and scale benefits of the public cloud but need new data management capabilities to keep control of data as it moves beyond the walls of the enterprise. NetApp believes the hybrid cloud is fast becoming the dominant model for enterprise IT. Our Data Fabric approach enables our customers to manage, secure and protect their data from on-premises to public to hybrid clouds, all at the scale needed to accommodate the exponential data growth of the digital world. 
Flash plays a key role in customers’ digital transformation efforts as they seek to gain advantage through greater speed, responsiveness and value from key business applications - all while lowering total cost of ownership. All-flash array technology is the de facto choice as customers seek performance and economic benefits from replacing hard disk installations. With a highly differentiated and broad portfolio of all-flash and hybrid array offerings, NetApp is well positioned to enable customers to accomplish this transition. 
To provide visibility into our transition from older products to our newer, higher growth products and clarity into the dynamics of our product revenue, we group our products by “Strategic” and “Mature” solutions. As our product portfolio evolves, market dynamics change, and management continues to assess our largest growth opportunities, we periodically change how we group certain products. Beginning in fiscal 2020, Strategic includes All-flash FAS (AFF) products, including all related add-on hardware and operating system (OS) software, private cloud solutions (including SolidFire, converged and hyper-converged infrastructure products, StorageGrid), enterprise software license agreements (ELAs) and other optional add-on software products. Mature now includes Hybrid FAS products, including all related add-on hardware and OS software, original equipment manufacturers (OEM) products, and branded E-Series. Prior to this grouping change, Hybrid FAS products and branded E-Series were included in Strategic, while all add-on hardware and OS software were included in Mature. For comparability, Strategic and Mature revenues presented for the prior year period have been recast based on the revised groupings. 
In addition to our products and solutions, we provide a variety of services to our customers, including software maintenance, hardware maintenance and other services including professional services, global support solutions, and customer education and training. Revenues generated by our Cloud Data Services offerings are included in software maintenance revenues. 
Financial Results and Key Performance Metrics Overview  
Stock Repurchase Program and Dividend Activity 
Cognigo Acquisition 
On May 23, 2019, we acquired all the outstanding shares of privately-held Cognigo Research Ltd., a provider of data discovery classification software designed to manage and protect critical data, for $58 million in cash.  
Restructuring Event 
In the first quarter of fiscal 2020, we adopted the new accounting standard Leases (ASC 842) using the modified retrospective approach, electing the optional transition method of not adjusting our comparative period financial statements. Adoption of the new standard resulted in the recognition of approximately $149 million of operating lease right-of-use assets, net of deferred rent and restructuring liabilities, and $158 million of lease liabilities on our condensed consolidated balance sheets as of the beginning of fiscal 2020. See Note 10 – Leases in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.  
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  
Our fiscal year is reported as a 52- or 53-week year that ends on the last Friday in April. Fiscal years 2020 and 2019 are each 52-week years, with 13 weeks in each of their quarters. Unless otherwise stated, references to particular years, quarters, months and periods refer to the Company’s fiscal years ended in April and the associated quarters, months and periods of those fiscal years. 
Percentages may not add due to rounding 
Overview  
Net revenues for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 were $1,236 million, reflecting a decrease of $238 million, or 16%, compared to the corresponding period of the prior year, primarily reflecting lower product revenues, and to a lesser extent, the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations in the quarter. Hardware maintenance and other services revenues also decreased compared to the corresponding period of the prior year, offset by an increase in software maintenance revenues.  
Gross profit as a percentage of net revenues for the first quarter increased by one percentage point compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2019. Gross profit margins on product revenues decreased by three percentage points in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to the corresponding period of fiscal 2019, primarily due to high margins on revenue recognized related to the software license components of several ELAs in the first quarter of fiscal quarter of 2019, which did not repeat in fiscal 2020.  
Sales and marketing, research and development, and general and administrative expenses for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 totaled $691 million, or 56% of net revenues, representing an increase of nine percentage points when compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2019, primarily due to lower net revenues in the current fiscal period. 
The decrease in net revenues for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to the corresponding period of fiscal 2019 was primarily due to a decrease in product revenues of $231 million. Product revenues as a percentage of net revenues decreased by seven percentage points in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2019.  
Under the revised Strategic and Mature product groupings, as described in the Overview section above, product revenues from strategic solutions represented 52% of product revenues in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, compared to 54% in the corresponding period of the prior year. Product revenues from mature solutions represented 48% of product revenues in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, compared to 46% in the corresponding period of the prior year. 
Total product revenues from strategic solutions totaled $337 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 reflecting a 29% decrease from $475 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, primarily due to decreased sales of All-Flash FAS products in the current year period and a substantial amount of revenue recognized in the prior year period related to the software license components of several ELAs which did not repeat, partially offset by an increase in revenues from private cloud solutions.  
Total product revenue from mature solutions totaled $307 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 reflecting a 23% decrease from $400 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, primarily due to decreased sales of FAS Hybrid and OEM products in the current year period.  
Software maintenance revenues are associated with contracts which entitle customers to receive unspecified product upgrades and enhancements on a when-and-if-available basis, bug fixes and patch releases, as well as internet and telephone access to technical support personnel located in our global support centers. 
The fluctuations in software maintenance revenues reflect fluctuations in the aggregate contract value of the installed base under software maintenance contracts, which is recognized as revenue ratably over the terms of the underlying contracts.  
Hardware maintenance and other services revenues include hardware maintenance, professional services, and educational and training services revenues.  
Hardware maintenance contract revenues decreased year over year, at $284 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2020, compared to $303 million for the corresponding period of the prior year. The decrease was primarily attributable to a decline in average selling price on contracts executed recently, as well as lower contract renewal rates.  
Professional services and educational and training services revenues were $58 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2020, compared to $67 million for the corresponding period of the prior year.  
Percentages may not add due to rounding 
Americas revenues consist of sales to Americas commercial and U.S. public sector markets. During the first quarter of fiscal 2020, Americas revenues were negatively impacted by general macroeconomic conditions in the region and go-to-market execution issues with some of our largest customer accounts, which was reflected in the geographic distribution of revenues as a percentage of net revenues in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to the corresponding period of fiscal 2019. 
Cost of Revenues  
Cost of product revenues represented 48% of product revenues for the first quarter of fiscal 2020, compared to 45% for the corresponding period of fiscal 2019. Materials costs represented 82% of product costs for the first quarter of fiscal 2020, compared to 87% in the corresponding period of fiscal 2019. 
Materials costs decreased $92 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to the corresponding period of the prior year, primarily due to a decline in product revenue and, to a lesser extent, a decline in the price of certain product components. The average unit materials costs of both All-Flash FAS and FAS Hybrid systems decreased in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2019. 
Margins on revenue recognized for strategic solutions increased slightly during the first quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2019, while margins for mature solutions decreased slightly.  
Cost of software maintenance revenues in dollars were relatively flat in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to the corresponding period of fiscal 2019 and represented 4% and 3% of software maintenance revenues in the current year and prior year periods, respectively. 
Operating Expenses  
Sales and Marketing, Research and Development and General and Administrative Expenses  
Total compensation costs included in operating expenses decreased by $4 million, or 1% in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, compared to the corresponding period of the prior year primarily due to lower incentive compensation expense and, to a lesser extent, the favorable impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations, partially offset by higher salaries expense, reflecting a 2% increase in average headcount.  
In the first quarter of fiscal 2020, we announced a restructuring plan (the May 2019 Plan) to reduce costs and redirect resources to our highest return activities, which included a reduction in our global workforce of approximately 2%. Charges related to the plan consisted primarily of employee severance-related costs. We expect to complete all activities associated with the May 2019 plan by the end of second quarter of fiscal 2020 with no significant additional charges. See Note 13 – Restructuring Charges of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more details. 
Other Income, Net (in millions, except percentages) 
Interest income decreased in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to the corresponding period of the prior year due to a reduction in size of our investment portfolio as a result of our sale of approximately $1.0 billion of available-for-sale debt securities in the second half of the quarter. Other income, net increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 as a result of the $14 million gain we realized from the sale of these securities, partially offset by differences in foreign exchange gains and losses year-over-year. Interest expense remained relatively flat in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to the corresponding period of the prior year. 
During fiscal 2019, we adopted the new revenue accounting standard and, for the three months ended July 27, 2018, we recognized a $34 million discrete tax benefit for adjustments to certain intercompany transactions resulting from the retrospective application of the new revenue accounting standard. 
Liquidity, Capital Resources and Cash Requirements  
As of July 26, 2019, our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments were $3.5 billion, a decrease of $0.4 billion from April 26, 2019. The decrease was primarily due to $250 million paid for the repurchase of our common stock, $115 million used for the payment of dividends, $219 million used for the net repayment of commercial paper notes, and $32 million in purchases of property and equipment, partially offset by $310 million of cash provided by operating activities. Working capital decreased by $0.4 billion to $1.3 billion as of July 26, 2019 compared to April 26, 2019 primarily due to the decreases in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments discussed above. 
Days sales outstanding, referred to as DSO, calculates the average collection period of our receivables. DSO is based on ending accounts receivable and net revenue for each period. DSO is calculated by dividing accounts receivable by average net revenue per day for the current quarter (91 days for each of the quarters presented above). DSO for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 was relatively consistent with the corresponding period of fiscal 2019, while it decreased compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019 due to lower seasonal invoicing levels and more favorable shipping linearity. 
Days inventory outstanding, referred to as DIO, measures the average number of days from procurement to sale of our products. DIO is based on ending inventory and cost of revenues for each period. DIO is calculated by dividing ending inventory by average cost of revenues per day for the current quarter. DIO for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 increased compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019 and the corresponding period of fiscal 2019, primarily due to higher levels of inventory on hand at the end of the current quarter resulting from a decline in sales towards the end of the period.  
Days payables outstanding, referred to as DPO, calculates the average number of days our payables remain outstanding before payment. DPO is based on ending accounts payable and cost of revenues for each period. DPO is calculated by dividing accounts payable by average cost of revenues per day for the current quarter. DPO for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 was relatively consistent with the corresponding period of fiscal 2019, while it decreased compared to the fourth quarter of 2019, primarily due to the timing of purchases from contract manufacturers. 
During the first three months of fiscal 2020, we generated cash from operating activities of $310 million, reflecting net income of $103 million, adjusted by non-cash depreciation and amortization of $49 million, and stock-based compensation of $42 million, compared to $326 million of cash generated from operating activities during the first three months of fiscal 2019.  
Accounts receivable decreased $672 million, reflecting lower DSO. 
Accounts payable decreased $195 million, reflecting lower DPO. 
Accrued expenses decreased $277 million, primarily due to employee compensation payouts related to fiscal year 2019 commissions and incentive compensation plans. 
Deferred revenue and financed unearned services revenue decreased $154 million, primarily due to a decrease in deferred software and hardware maintenance contract revenues reflecting the seasonality of maintenance contract renewal activities. 
During the first three months of fiscal 2020, we generated $1.0 billion from maturities and sales of investments, net of purchases, and paid $32 million for capital expenditures, while during the first three months of fiscal 2019, we generated $248 million from maturities and sales of investments, net of purchases, and paid $64 million for capital expenditures. Additionally, during the first three months of fiscal 2020, we paid $56 million net to acquire a privately-held company. 
During the first three months of fiscal 2020, we used $250 million for the repurchase of four million shares of our common stock, $115 million for the payment of dividends, and $219 million for the repayment of commercial paper notes, net, compared to $500 million used for the repurchase of seven million shares of common stock, $105 million used for the payment of dividends, and $185 million for the repayment of commercial paper notes, net, during the first three months of fiscal 2019.  
Key factors that could affect our cash flows include changes in our revenue mix and profitability, our ability to effectively manage our working capital, in particular, accounts receivable, accounts payable and inventories, the timing and amount of stock repurchases and payment of cash dividends, the impact of foreign exchange rate changes, our ability to effectively integrate acquired products, businesses and technologies and the timing of repayments of our debt. Based on past performance and our current business outlook, we believe that our sources of liquidity, including potential future issuances of debt, equity or other securities, will satisfy our working capital needs, capital expenditures, investment requirements, stock repurchases, cash dividends, contractual obligations, commitments, principal and interest payments on our debt and other liquidity requirements associated with operations and meet our cash requirements for at least the next 12 months. However, in the event our liquidity is insufficient, we may be required to curtail spending and implement additional cost saving measures and restructuring actions or enter into new financing arrangements. We cannot be certain that we will continue to generate cash flows at or above current levels or that we will be able to obtain additional financing, if necessary, on satisfactory terms, if at all. 
Liquidity  
Our principal sources of liquidity as of July 26, 2019 consisted of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, cash we expect to generate from operations, and our commercial paper program and related credit facility.  
Our principal liquidity requirements are primarily to meet our working capital needs, support ongoing business activities, fund research and development, meet capital expenditure needs, invest in critical or complementary technologies, service interest and principal payments on our debt, fund our stock repurchase program, and pay dividends, as and if declared. 
Interest on the Senior Notes is payable semi-annually. For further information on the underlying terms, see Note 9 – Financing Arrangements of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 
We have a commercial paper program (the Program), under which we may issue unsecured commercial paper notes. Amounts available under the Program may be borrowed, repaid and re-borrowed, with the aggregate face or principal amount of the notes outstanding under the Program at any time not to exceed $1.0 billion. The maturities of the notes can vary, but may not exceed 397 days from the date of issue. The notes are sold under customary terms in the commercial paper market and may be issued at a discount from par or, alternatively, may be sold at par and bear interest at rates dictated by market conditions at the time of their issuance. The proceeds from the issuance of the notes are used for general corporate purposes. As of July 26, 2019, we had commercial paper notes outstanding with an aggregate principal amount of $30 million, a weighted-average interest rate of 2.56% and a maturity of 29 days. 
In connection with the Program, we have a senior unsecured credit agreement that expires on December 10, 2021. The credit agreement provides a $1.0 billion revolving unsecured credit facility that serves as a back-up for the Program. Proceeds from the facility may also be used for general corporate purposes, providing another potential source of liquidity to the extent that the credit facility exceeds the outstanding debt issued under the Program. The credit agreement also includes options that allow us to request an increase in the facility of up to an additional $300 million and to extend its maturity date for two additional one-year periods, both subject to certain conditions. As of July 26, 2019, we were in compliance with all associated covenants in this agreement. No amounts were drawn against this facility during any of the periods presented. 
Capital Expenditure Requirements  
Dividends and Stock Repurchase Program  
On August 14, 2019, we declared a cash dividend of $0.48 per share of common stock, payable on October 23, 2019 to holders of record as of the close of business on October 4, 2019. 
Our Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of up to $13.6 billion of our common stock under our stock repurchase program. Under this program, we may purchase shares of our outstanding common stock through solicited or unsolicited transactions in the open market, in privately negotiated transactions, through accelerated share repurchase programs, pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 plan or in such other manner as deemed appropriate by our management. The stock repurchase program may be suspended or discontinued at any time. Since the May 13, 2003 inception of this program through July 26, 2019, we repurchased a total of 317 million shares of our common stock at an average price of $37.80 per share, for an aggregate purchase price of $12.0 billion. As of July 26, 2019, the remaining authorized amount for stock repurchases under this program was $1.6 billion. 
Purchase Orders and Other Commitments  
In addition to inventory commitments with contract manufacturers and component suppliers, we have open purchase orders and construction related obligations associated with our ordinary course of business for which we have not received goods or services. As of July 26, 2019, we had $9 million in construction related obligations and $235 million in other purchase obligations.  
Unrecognized Tax Benefits  
While most of our arrangements for sales include short-term payment terms, from time to time we provide long-term financing to creditworthy customers. We have generally sold receivables financed through these arrangements on a non-recourse basis to third party financing institutions within 10 days of the contracts’ dates of execution, and we classify the proceeds from these sales as cash flows from operating activities in our condensed consolidated statements of cash flows. We account for the sales of these receivables as “true sales” as defined in the accounting standards on transfers of financial assets, as we are considered to have surrendered control of these financing receivables. Provided all other revenue recognition criteria have been met, we recognize product revenues for these arrangements, net of any payment discounts from financing transactions, upon product acceptance. We sold $14 million and $30 million of receivables during first quarter of fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2019, respectively. 
Some of the leasing arrangements described above have been financed on a recourse basis through third-party financing institutions. Under the terms of recourse leases, which are generally three years or less, we remain liable for the aggregate unpaid remaining lease payments to the third-party leasing companies in the event of end-user customer default. These arrangements are generally collateralized by a security interest in the underlying assets. Where we provide a guarantee for recourse leases and collectability is probable, we account for these transactions as sales type leases. If collectability is not probable, the cash received is recorded as a deposit liability and revenue is deferred until the arrangement is deemed collectible. For leases that we are not a party to, other than providing recourse, we recognize revenue when control is transferred. As of July 26, 2019 and April 26, 2019, the aggregate amount by which such contingencies exceeded the associated liabilities was not significant. To date, we have not experienced significant losses under our lease financing programs or other financing arrangements. 
We have entered into service contracts with certain of our end-user customers that are supported by third-party financing arrangements. If a service contract is terminated as a result of our non-performance under the contract or our failure to comply with the terms of the financing arrangement, we could, under certain circumstances, be required to acquire certain assets related to the service contract or to pay the aggregate unpaid payments under such arrangements. As of July 26, 2019, we have not been required to make any payments under these arrangements, and we believe the likelihood of having to acquire a material amount of assets or make payments under these arrangements is remote. The portion of the financial arrangement that represents unearned services revenue is included in deferred revenue and financed unearned services revenue in our condensed consolidated balance sheets.  
Legal Contingencies  
Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.  
Purchases of equity securities  
In May 2003, our Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program. As of July 26, 2019, our Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of up to $13.6 billion of our common stock. Since inception of the program through July 26, 2019, we repurchased a total of 317 million shares of our common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $12.0 billion. Under this program, which we may suspend or discontinue at any time, we may purchase shares of our outstanding common stock through solicited or unsolicited transactions in the open market, in privately negotiated transactions, through accelerated share repurchase programs, pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 plan or in such other manner as deemed appropriate by our management. 
