Overview  
Our Company 
We are the data authority for hybrid cloud environments. We provide a full range of hybrid cloud data services that simplify management of applications and data across cloud and on-premises environments to accelerate digital transformations. Together with our partners, we empower global organizations to unleash the full potential of their data to expand customer touchpoints, foster greater innovation, and optimize their operations.  
Our Data Fabric approach simplifies and integrates data management across cloud and on-premises to accelerate digital transformation, enabling our customers to manage, secure and protect their data from on-premises to public to hybrid clouds, all at the scale needed to accommodate the exponential data growth of the digital world. It delivers consistent and integrated data management services and applications for data visibility and insights, data access and control, and data protection and security.  
We focus on delivering an exceptional customer experience to become their preferred data partner. Our products and solutions portfolio empowers customers to harness the power of the hybrid cloud, build a next-generation data center, and modernize storage through data management. We will continue to extend our cloud integration and hybrid cloud leadership by expanding our product offerings and services to match customer needs across the cloud and on-premises. 
Our unified scale-out fabric-attached storage (FAS) platform is designed to meet the demanding requirements of shared infrastructures and cloud environments. Our FAS storage platform uses the NetApp Data ONTAP storage operating system to deliver integrated data protection, comprehensive data management, and built-in efficiency software for virtualized, shared infrastructures, cloud computing, and mixed workload business applications. Our E-Series high-performance storage area network platform is designed to meet demanding performance and capacity requirements of dedicated workloads, while retaining simplicity and an optimized price to performance ratio. Our SolidFire All-Flash Arrays deliver fully automated agility and guaranteed application performance at web scale so customers can achieve the next-generation data center. 
Our hybrid flash storage serves customers who want the option to deploy the speed of flash storage where they need it while using more affordable hard disk drives to address capacity requirements. Our hybrid arrays include the FAS series of unified storage systems and the E-Series of block storage offerings. 
We group our products by “Strategic” and “Mature” solutions. Strategic solutions include Clustered ONTAP, branded E-Series, SolidFire, AltaVault and optional add-on software products. Mature solutions include 7-mode OnTap, add-on hardware and related operating system (OS) software and original equipment manufacturers (OEM) products. Both our Mature and Strategic product lines include a mix of disk, hybrid and all flash storage media. 
In addition to our products, we provide a variety of services including software maintenance, hardware maintenance and other services including professional services, global support solutions, and customer education and training to help customers most effectively manage their data. 
Financial Results and Key Performance Metrics Overview  
Stock Repurchase Program and Dividend Activity 
On November 3, 2017, we extinguished our 2.00% Senior Notes due December 2017 for an aggregate cash redemption price of $751 million, plus accrued and unpaid interest.  
Real Estate Transactions 
On September 8, 2017, we entered into an agreement to sell certain land and buildings for a total of $306 million, through two separate and independent closings. On December 7, 2017, the first closing date, we consummated the sale of properties with a net book value of $66 million for cash proceeds of $210 million, resulting in a gain, net of direct selling costs, of $142 million.  
In fiscal 2016, we entered into a sale-leaseback arrangement of certain of our land and buildings. The arrangement did not qualify for sale-leaseback accounting and instead was accounted for as a financing transaction. In December 2017, we terminated the leases and recorded a non-cash sale of properties with a net book value of $54 million, the extinguishment of $130 million in financing obligations, and a gain of $76 million.  
Tax Reform 
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  
Our fiscal year is reported as a 52- or 53-week year that ends on the last Friday in April. Fiscal years 2018 and 2017, ending April 27, 2018 and April 28, 2017, are each 52-week years, with 13 weeks in each of their quarters. Unless otherwise stated, references to particular years, quarters, months and periods refer to the Company’s fiscal years ended in April and the associated quarters, months and periods of those fiscal years. 
Percentages may not add due to rounding 
Overview  
Net revenues for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018 were $1,523 million and $4,270 million, respectively, reflecting an increase of $119 million, or 8%, and $232 million, or 6%, respectively, compared to the corresponding periods of the prior year, reflecting higher product revenues, partially offset by lower hardware maintenance and other services revenues. 
Gross profit as a percentage of net revenues for the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal 2018 increased by one percentage point and one and a half percentage points, respectively, compared to the corresponding periods in fiscal 2017, reflecting higher margins on product revenues. Gross profit margins on product revenues increased four and a half percentage points in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 and four percentage points in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 compared to the corresponding periods of fiscal 2017, primarily due to an increase in average selling price (ASP) and, to a lesser extent, the favorable impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations.  
Sales and marketing, research and development, and general and administrative expenses for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 totaled $688 million. This represented 45% of net revenues, consistent with the third quarter of fiscal 2017. In the first nine months of fiscal 2018, sales and marketing, research and development, and general and administrative expenses totaled $2,057 million, or 48% of net revenues, representing a decrease of two percentage points compared to the corresponding period of fiscal 2017, primarily due to higher net revenues in the current year coupled with lower average headcount as a result of our restructuring plans and other cost reduction initiatives. 
The increase in net revenues for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018 compared to the corresponding periods of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to an increase in product revenues of $136 million and $296 million, respectively, partially offset by a decrease in hardware maintenance and other services revenues of $14 million and $52 million, respectively. Product revenues as a percentage of net revenues increased four and a half percentage points in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 and four percentage points in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 compared to the corresponding periods of fiscal 2017. 
Product revenues from strategic solutions represented 70% of product revenues in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018, compared to 65% and 64% in the corresponding periods of the prior year. Product revenues from mature solutions represented 30% of product revenues in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018, compared to 35% and 36% in the corresponding periods of the prior year. 
Total product revenues from strategic solutions totaled $647 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 reflecting a 26% increase from $512 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2017. This increase was primarily due to a 5% increase in unit volume of Clustered ONTAP systems and an increase in ASP driven by sales of our All-Flash FAS products. Total product revenue from mature solutions totaled $273 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2018, relatively flat compared to $272 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2017. A decrease in unit volume of 7-mode systems resulting from the movement of customer demand from older products to our newer products was offset by an 11% increase in add-on hardware, storage and related OS revenues. Product revenues from both strategic and mature solutions were favorably impacted by foreign exchange rate fluctuations in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2017. 
Total product revenues from strategic solutions totaled $1,704 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 reflecting a 24% increase from $1,375 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2017. This increase was primarily due to a 7% increase in unit volume of Clustered ONTAP systems and an increase in ASP driven by sales of our All-Flash FAS products. Total product revenue from  
mature solutions totaled $746 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 reflecting a 4% decrease from $779 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2017. This decrease was primarily due to a 69% decrease in unit volume of 7-mode systems, and a 10% decrease in OEM revenues, partially offset by an 11% increase in add-on hardware, storage and related OS revenues.  
Software maintenance revenues are associated with contracts which entitle customers to receive unspecified product upgrades and enhancements on a when-and-if-available basis, bug fixes and patch releases, as well as internet and telephone access to technical support personnel located in our global support centers. 
The fluctuations in software maintenance revenues reflect fluctuations in the aggregate contract value of the installed base under software maintenance contracts, which is recognized as revenue ratably over the terms of the underlying contracts.  
Hardware maintenance and other services revenues include hardware maintenance, professional services, and educational and training services revenues.  
Hardware maintenance contract revenues were $299 million and $903 million for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018, respectively, compared to $313 million and $952 million for the corresponding periods of the prior year. The decreases in the current year were primarily due to lower contract renewal rates, and a decline in ASP on executed contracts.  
Professional services and educational and training services revenues were $67 million and $206 million for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018, respectively, compared to $67 million and $209 million for the corresponding periods of the prior year.  
Percentages may not add due to rounding 
Americas revenues consist of sales to Americas commercial and U.S. public sector markets. Our geographic distribution of revenues as a percentage of net revenues was relatively consistent in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018 compared to the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2017. 
Cost of Revenues  
Cost of product revenues represented 51% of product revenues for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018, compared to 55% and 54% for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2017, respectively. Materials costs represented 91% and 90% of product costs for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018, respectively, compared to 90% and 91% in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2017, respectively. 
Materials costs increased $37 million and $57 million in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018, respectively, compared to the corresponding periods of the prior year, primarily due to higher unit volume of Clustered ONTAP systems.  
Average unit materials costs for Clustered ONTAP systems increased slightly in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018 compared to the corresponding periods of the prior year. 
Cost of product revenues in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2017 were favorably impacted by a $5 million decrease in charges for excess and obsolete inventory. 
Cost of software maintenance revenues was relatively flat in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018 compared to the corresponding periods of fiscal 2017 and represented 3% of software maintenance revenues for all periods presented. 
Cost of hardware maintenance and other services revenues decreased $3 million, or 3%, for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2017, and decreased $33 million, or 9%, for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2017, primarily due to the favorable impact of cost savings initiatives. Costs represented 30% of hardware maintenance and other services revenues in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018, compared to 29% and 32% in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2017, respectively. 
Operating Expenses  
Sales and Marketing, Research and Development and General and Administrative Expenses  
Total compensation costs included in operating expenses increased by $26 million, or 7% in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared to the corresponding period in the prior year primarily due to higher incentive compensation expense, reflecting stronger operating performance against goals, and, to a lesser extent, the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations.  
Total compensation costs included in operating expenses decreased by $6 million, or 1% in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 compared to the corresponding period in the prior year reflecting a decrease of 3% in average headcount, partially offset by higher incentive compensation expense. 
The increase in commissions expense reflects higher performance against sales goals, while the increase in compensation costs reflects a combination of higher average salaries due to merit increases, higher incentive compensation expense, and the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations.  
On September 8, 2017, we entered into an agreement to sell certain properties previously classified as assets held-for-sale for a total of $306 million, through two separate and independent closings. On December 7, 2017, the date of the first closing, we consummated the sale of properties with a net book value of $66 million for cash proceeds of $210 million, resulting in a gain, net of direct selling costs, of $142 million.  
During the third quarter of fiscal 2018, our continuing involvement with properties subject to a sale-leaseback arrangement entered into in fiscal 2016 ended, and as a result we recorded a non-cash sale of properties, extinguished the associated financing obligation and recognized a gain of $76 million.  
Other Income (Expense), Net (in millions, except percentages) 
Interest income increased in the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal 2018 compared to the corresponding periods of the prior year, primarily due to a shift in our investment portfolio to higher-yielding investments. 
Interest expense increased in the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal 2018 primarily as a result of our commercial paper program, which began in the third quarter of fiscal 2017, and the September 2017 issuance of $800 million aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes which have a higher weighted average interest rate than the $750 million aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes extinguished in November 2017.  
Liquidity, Capital Resources and Cash Requirements  
As of January 26, 2018, our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments were $5.6 billion, an increase of $0.7 billion from April 28, 2017. The increase was primarily due to $795 million of net proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt, $210 million in proceeds from the sale of properties, $132 million in proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper notes, net of repayments, and $984 million of cash provided by operating activities, partially offset by $750 million paid to redeem our Senior Notes due in December 2017, $450 million paid for the repurchase of our common stock and $161 million used for the payment of dividends. Working capital increased by $1.1 billion to $3.2 billion as of January 26, 2018 compared to April 28, 2017 primarily due to an increase in cash, cash equivalents and short term investments that was primarily attributable to proceeds from the sale of properties, proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper, net of repayment, and net cash provided by operating activities. 
Days may not add due to rounding 
Days sales outstanding, referred to as DSO, calculates the average collection period of our receivables. DSO is based on ending accounts receivable and net revenue for each period. DSO is calculated by dividing accounts receivable by average net revenue per day for the current quarter (91 days for each of the quarters presented above). The increase in DSO for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2017 was due to differences in the timing of shipments to certain customers. 
Days inventory outstanding, referred to as DIO, measures the average number of days from procurement to sale of our products. DIO is based on ending inventory and cost of revenues for each period. DIO is calculated by dividing ending inventory by average cost of revenues per day for the current quarter. DIO for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 decreased compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017 due to lower levels of purchased components, primarily solid state drives, on hand at the end of the current quarter. Additionally, it decreased compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2017 as a result of increased product sales in the third quarter of fiscal 2018.  
Days payables outstanding, referred to as DPO, calculates the average number of days our payables remain outstanding before payment. DPO is based on ending accounts payable and cost of revenues for each period. DPO is calculated by dividing accounts payable by average cost of revenues per day for the current quarter. DPO for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 increased compared to the fourth and third quarters of fiscal 2017, primarily as a result of improved vendor payables management and an extension of payment terms with our suppliers. 
During the first nine months of fiscal 2018, we generated cash from operating activities of $984 million, reflecting a net loss of $195 million, adjusted by non-cash depreciation and amortization of $150 million, stock-based compensation of $125 million, a deferred income tax provision of $258 million, and a gain on sale of properties of $218 million, compared to $621 million of cash generated from operating activities during the first nine months of fiscal 2017.  
Accounts payable increased $115 million, primarily due to improved vendor payables management and an extension of payment terms with our suppliers during fiscal 2018. 
Cash Flows from Investing Activities  
During the first nine months of fiscal 2018, we paid $178 million for the purchases of investments, net of maturities and sales, and paid $97 million for capital expenditures, while during the first nine months of fiscal 2017 we generated $2 million from maturities and sales of investments, net of purchases, and paid $137 million for capital expenditures. Additionally, during the first nine months of fiscal 2018, we paid $75 million to acquire two privately-held companies, and received proceeds of $210 million from the sale of properties. 
During the first nine months of fiscal 2018, we generated $795 million in cash from the issuance of long-term debt, $132 million in cash from issuances of commercial paper notes, net of repayments, and used $450 million for the repurchase of 10 million shares of our common stock, $161 million for the payment of dividends, and $750 million to redeem our Senior Notes due in December 2017. During the first nine months of fiscal 2017, we generated $392 million in cash from issuances of commercial paper notes, net of repayments, and used $850 million to repay our short-term loan, $576 million for the repurchase of common stock, and $157 million for the payment of dividends. 
Liquidity  
Our principal sources of liquidity as of January 26, 2018 consisted of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, as well as cash we expect to generate from operations.  
Our principal liquidity requirements are primarily to meet our working capital needs, support ongoing business activities, fund research and development, meet capital expenditure needs, invest in critical or complementary technologies, and service interest and principal payments on our debt. 
Interest on the Senior Notes is payable semi-annually. For further information on the underlying terms, see Note 9 – Financing Arrangements of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 
Commercial Paper Program and Credit Facility 
We have a commercial paper program (the Program), under which we may issue unsecured commercial paper notes. On July 17, 2017 we amended the Program to increase the maximum amounts available that may be borrowed, repaid and re-borrowed to an aggregate face or principal amount of the notes outstanding of $1.0 billion, as compared to $600 million prior to the amendment. The maturities of the notes can vary, but may not exceed 397 days from the date of issue. The notes are sold under customary terms in the commercial paper market and may be issued at a discount from par or, alternatively, may be sold at par and bear interest at rates dictated by market conditions at the time of their issuance. The proceeds from the issuance of the notes are used for general corporate purposes. As of January 26, 2018, we had commercial paper notes outstanding with an aggregate principal amount of $632 million, a weighted-average interest rate of 1.81% and maturities ranging from 17 days to 46 days. 
In connection with the Program, we have a senior unsecured credit agreement that expires on December 10, 2021. The credit agreement, which was amended on July 17, 2017 provides a $1.0 billion revolving unsecured credit facility that serves as a back-up for the Program. Proceeds from the facility may also be used for general corporate purposes, providing another potential source of liquidity to the extent that the credit facility exceeds the outstanding debt issued under the Program. The credit agreement also includes options that allow us to request an increase in the facility of up to an additional $300 million and to extend its maturity date for two additional one-year periods, both subject to certain conditions. As of January 26, 2018, we were in compliance with all associated covenants in this agreement. No amounts were drawn against this facility during any of the periods presented. 
Capital Expenditure Requirements  
Dividends and Stock Repurchase Program  
On February 14, 2018, we declared a cash dividend of $0.20 per share of common stock, payable on April 25, 2018 to holders of record as of the close of business on April 6, 2018. 
As of January 26, 2018, future annual minimum lease payments under non-cancelable operating leases with an initial term in excess of one year totaled $198 million.  
Purchase Orders and Other Commitments  
In addition to inventory commitments with contract manufacturers and component suppliers, we have open purchase orders and construction related obligations associated with our ordinary course of business for which we have not received goods or services. As of January 26, 2018, we had $15 million in construction related obligations and $222 million in other purchase obligations.  
Unrecognized Tax Benefits  
Sale-leaseback Transactions 
In fiscal 2016, we entered into a sale-leaseback arrangement of certain of our land and buildings, under which we leased back certain of our properties rent free over lease terms ending at various dates through December 31, 2017. These properties did not qualify for sale-leaseback accounting and as a result they were accounted for as financing transactions. In December 2017, we terminated the leases and recorded a non-cash sale of properties with a net book value of $54 million, the extinguishment of $130 million in financing obligations, and a gain of $76 million. As of January 26, 2018, there are no balances remaining on our condensed consolidated balance sheets associated with this sale-leaseback arrangement.  
While most of our arrangements for sales include short-term payment terms, from time to time we provide long-term financing to creditworthy customers. We have generally sold receivables financed through these arrangements on a non-recourse basis to third party financing institutions within 10 days of the contracts’ dates of execution, and we classify the proceeds from these sales as cash flows from operating activities in our condensed consolidated statements of cash flows. We account for the sales of these receivables as “true sales” as defined in the accounting standards on transfers of financial assets, as we are considered to have surrendered control of these financing receivables. Provided all other revenue recognition criteria have been met, we recognize product revenues for these arrangements, net of any payment discounts from financing transactions, upon product acceptance. We sold $62 million and $142 million of receivables during the first nine months of fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017, respectively. 
We have entered into service contracts with certain of our end-user customers that are supported by third-party financing arrangements. If a service contract is terminated as a result of our non-performance under the contract or our failure to comply with the terms of the financing arrangement, we could, under certain circumstances, be required to acquire certain assets related to the service contract or to pay the aggregate unpaid payments under such arrangements. As of January 26, 2018, we have not been required to make any payments under these arrangements, and we believe the likelihood of having to acquire a material amount of assets or make payments under these arrangements is remote. The portion of the financial arrangement that represents unearned services revenue is included in deferred revenue and financed unearned services revenue in our condensed consolidated balance sheets.  
Legal Contingencies  
Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.  
Purchases of equity securities  
