Overview 
Espey began operations after incorporation in New York in 1928. We strive to remain competitive as a leader in high power energy conversion and transformer solutions through the design and manufacture of new and improved products by using advanced and “cutting edge” electronics technologies. 
There is competition in all classes of products manufactured by the Company, ranging from divisions of the largest electronic companies, to many small companies. The Company's sales do not represent a significant share of the industry's market for any class of its products. The principal methods of competition for electronic products of both a military and industrial nature include, among other factors, price, product performance, the experience of the particular company and history of its dealings in such products. 
In order to maintain a balanced business, we are continuing to place an emphasis on securing “build to print” opportunities, which will allow production work to go directly to the manufacturing floor, limiting the impact on our engineering staff. This effort will keep our manufacturing team busy while the products being developed transition to production.  
New orders received in the first three months of fiscal year 2019 and 2018 were approximately $6.9 million. It is presently anticipated that a minimum of $33.7 million of orders comprising the September 30, 2018 backlog will be filled during the fiscal year ending June 30, 2019. The minimum of $33.7 million does not include any shipments, which may be made against orders subsequently received during the fiscal year ending June 30, 2019. The estimate of the September 30, 2018 backlog to be shipped in fiscal year 2019 is subject to future events, which may cause the amount of the backlog actually shipped to differ from such estimate. 
A significant portion of the Company’s business is the production of military and industrial electronic equipment for use by the U.S. and foreign governments and certain industrial customers. Net sales to two significant customers represented 62.5% of the Company’s total sales for the three-month period ended September 30, 2018 and net sales to two significant customers represented 73.9% of the Company's total sales for the three-month period ended September 30, 2017. This high concentration level with these customers presents significant risk. A loss of one of these customers or programs related to these customers could significantly impact the Company. Historically, a small number of customers have accounted for a large percentage of the Company’s total sales in any given fiscal year. 
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 
Revenue 
We account for a contract after it has been approved by all parties to the arrangement, the rights of the parties are identified, payment terms are identified, the contract has commercial substance, and collectability of consideration is probable. We assess each contract at its inception to determine whether it should be combined with other contracts. When making this determination, we consider factors such as whether two or more contracts were negotiated and executed at or near the same time, or were negotiated with an overall profit objective. 
We evaluate the products or services promised in each contract at inception to determine whether the contract should be accounted for as having one or more performance obligation. Significant judgment is required in determining performance obligations. We determine the transaction price for each contract based on the consideration we expect to receive for the products or services being provided under the contract. The transaction price for each performance obligation is based on the estimated standalone selling price of the product or service underlying each performance obligation. Transaction prices on our contracts subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR) are typically based on estimated or actual costs plus a reasonable profit margin. 
We recognize revenue using the output method based on the appraisal of results achieved and milestones reached or units delivered based on contractual shipment terms, typically shipping point. 
Inventory 
Inventoried work relating to contracts in process and work in process is valued at actual production cost, including factory overhead incurred to date. Contract costs include material, subcontract costs, labor, and an allocation of overhead costs. Work in process represents spare units and parts and other inventory items acquired or produced to service units previously sold or to meet anticipated future orders. Provision for losses on contracts is made when the existence of such losses becomes probable and estimable. The provision for losses on contracts is included in other accrued expenses on the Company’s balance sheet. The costs attributed to units delivered under contracts are based on the estimated average cost of all units expected to be produced. Certain contracts are expected to extend beyond twelve months. 
Contract Liabilities 
Results of Operations 
For the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, gross profits were $992,934 and $1,461,154, respectively. Gross profit as a percentage of sales was 11.9% and 19.5%, for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The primary factors in determining the change in gross profit and net income are overall sales levels and product mix. The gross profits on mature products and build to print contracts are typically higher as compared to products which are still in the engineering development stage or in early stages of production. In the case of the latter, the Company can incur what it refers to as “loss contracts,” meaning engineering design contracts in which the Company invests with the objective of developing future product sales. In any given accounting period the mix of product shipments between higher margin programs and less mature programs, and expenditures associated with loss contracts, has a significant impact on gross profit and net income. The gross profit percentage decreased in the three months ended September 30, 2018 as compared to the same period in 2017 primarily due to the impact of incurred spending related to a specific engineering design contract. This increase in spending reduced the gross profit percentage in the current quarter by 8.6%. 
Selling, general and administrative expenses were $1,009,544 for the three months ended September 30, 2018; an increase of $130,724, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2017. The increase for the three months ended September 30, 2018 as compared to the same period in 2017 relates primarily to the increase in employee compensation costs associated with added program management personnel supporting the Company’s sales backlog. These increases were offset, in part, by a reduction in training, travel, and incurred marketing costs. 
Other income for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 was $76,070 and $41,396, respectively. The increase for the three months is primarily due to an increase in interest income resulting from the gradual increase in current yield percentages earned on investment securities. Interest income is a function of the level of investments and investment strategies which generally tend to be conservative.  
The Company’s effective income tax rates for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 was a benefit of 3.7% and an expense of 29.0%, respectively. The statutory tax rate was reduced from 34% to 21% under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Act’) effective on January 1, 2018. The effective tax rate in fiscal 2019 is less than the statutory tax rate mainly due to the benefit derived from the ESOP dividends paid on allocated shares. In the current quarter, the Company reported a benefit for income taxes resulting from a tax adjustment related to the exercise of stock options during the quarter. The effective tax rate in fiscal 2018 is less than the statutory tax rate mainly due to the benefit the Company received on its “qualified production activities” under The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 which expired after the end of fiscal 2018 and the benefit derived from the ESOP dividends paid on allocated shares. 
Net income for the three months ended September 30, 2018 was $61,671 or $0.03, both basic and diluted, compared to $442,764 or $0.19 per share, both basic and diluted. The decrease in net income per share for the three months ended September 30, 2018 was mainly due to higher sales offset by lower gross profit and an increase in selling, general and administrative expenses when compared to the same period in 2017. Gross profit for the three months ended September 30, 2018 decreased due to a decline in the gross profit percentage due to expenditures incurred on a specific engineering design contract. The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses increased primarily due to employee compensation costs resulting from an increase in headcount. The decrease in net income per share was mitigated, in part, by an increase in investment income and a reduction in income taxes resulting from the decrease in the Company’s effective tax rate and the benefit the Company received related to a tax adjustment for stock options exercised during the quarter. 
The Company's working capital is an appropriate indicator of the liquidity of its business, and during the past two fiscal years, the Company, when possible, has funded all of its operations with cash flows resulting from operating activities and when necessary from its existing cash and investments. The Company did not borrow any funds during the last two fiscal years. Management has available a $3,000,000 line of credit to help fund further growth or working capital needs, if necessary, but does not anticipate the need for any borrowed funds in the foreseeable future. Contingent liabilities on outstanding standby letters of credit agreements aggregated to zero at September 30, 2018 and 2017. The line of credit is reviewed annually in November for renewal by December 1st. 
The Company's working capital as of September 30, 2018 and 2017 was approximately $26.6 million and $29.5 million, respectively. During the three-month period ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, the Company did not repurchase any shares of its common stock from the Company’s Employee Retirement Plan and Trust (“ESOP”). Under existing authorizations from the Company's Board of Directors, as of September 30, 2018, management is authorized to purchase an additional $876,297 of Company stock. 
Net cash used in operating activities fluctuates between periods primarily as a result of differences in sales and net income, provision for income taxes, the timing of the collection of accounts receivable, purchase of inventory, and payment of accounts payable. The increase in cash used in operating activities compared to the prior year primarily relates to an increase in accounts receivable and inventories attributed to the sales volume and backlog increases offset, in part, by a decrease in net income, prepaid expenses and an increase in accounts payable. Net cash provided by investing activities increased in the three months ended September 30, 2018 as compared to the same period in 2017 primarily due to an increase in maturing investments offset in part by an increase in spending for the purchase of property, plant and equipment. The increase in cash provided by financing activities is due to cash proceeds received from the exercise of stock options during the three months ended 2018 compared with no stock option exercised for the same period in 2017. In addition, the prior year includes cash expended for the regular quarterly dividend declared and paid during the quarter. In the current fiscal period, the regular dividend and a special dividend approximating $3 million in total was declared but not paid to shareholders until the second quarter of fiscal 2019. 
The Company currently believes that the cash flow generated from operations and when necessary, from cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet its long-term funding requirements for the foreseeable future. 
During the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, the Company expended $611,995 and $28,758, respectively, for plant improvements and new equipment. The Company has budgeted approximately $750,000 for new equipment and plant improvements in fiscal year 2019. Management anticipates that the funds required will be available from current operations. 
Management believes that the Company's reserve for bad debts of $3,000 is adequate given the customers with whom the Company does business. Historically, bad debt expense has been minimal. 
 Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds 
 (1)Pursuant to a prior Board of Directors authorization, as of September 30, 2018 the Company can repurchase up to $876,297 of its common stock pursuant to an ongoing plan. 
