Item 2 
Note About Forward-Looking Statements  
Microsoft is a technology company whose mission is to empower every person and every organization on the planet to achieve more. We strive to create local opportunity, growth, and impact in every country around the world. Our platforms and tools help drive small business productivity, large business competitiveness, and public-sector efficiency. They also support new startups, improve educational and health outcomes, and empower human ingenuity.  
We generate revenue by licensing and supporting an array of software products; offering a wide range of cloud-based and other services to people and businesses; designing, manufacturing, and selling devices; and delivering relevant online advertising to a global audience. Our most significant expenses are related to compensating employees; designing, manufacturing, marketing, and selling our products and services; datacenter costs in support of our cloud-based services; and income taxes.  
Commercial cloud revenue, which includes Microsoft Office 365 commercial, Microsoft Azure, the commercial portion of LinkedIn, Microsoft Dynamics 365, and other commercial cloud properties, increased 48% to $9.0 billion.  
Office Commercial revenue increased 11%, driven by Office 365 commercial growth of 34%. 
Office Consumer revenue increased 1%, with continued growth in Office 365 consumer subscribers to 33.3 million. 
LinkedIn revenue increased 29%, with strong engagement highlighted by LinkedIn sessions growth of 30%. 
Dynamics revenue increased 17%, driven by Dynamics 365 growth of 51%.  
Server products and cloud services revenue, including GitHub, increased 24%, driven by Azure growth of 76%.  
Enterprise Services revenue increased 6%. 
Windows original equipment manufacturer licensing (“Windows OEM”) revenue decreased 5%. 
Windows Commercial revenue increased 13%. 
Microsoft Surface revenue increased 39%. 
Item 2 
Search advertising revenue, excluding traffic acquisition costs, increased 14%. 
We have recast certain prior period commercial cloud metrics to include the commercial portion of LinkedIn to provide a comparable view of our commercial cloud business performance. The commercial portion of LinkedIn includes LinkedIn Recruiter, Sales Navigator, premium business subscriptions, and other services for organizations. 
Industry Trends  
Our success is highly dependent on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees. We hire a mix of university and industry talent worldwide. We compete for talented individuals globally by offering an exceptional working environment, broad customer reach, scale in resources, the ability to grow one’s career across many different products and businesses, and competitive compensation and benefits. Aggregate demand for our software, services, and devices is correlated to global macroeconomic and geopolitical factors, which remain dynamic.  
Seasonality  
Item 2 
Additional information on our reportable segments is contained in Note 17 – Segment Information and Geographic Data of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q).  
Not meaningful. 
Non-GAAP net income and diluted earnings per share (“EPS”) exclude the net charge related to the TCJA. Refer to the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section below for a reconciliation of our financial results reported in accordance with GAAP to non-GAAP financial results. 
Three Months Ended December 31, 2018 Compared with Three Months Ended December 31, 2017 
Revenue increased $3.6 billion or 12%, driven by growth across each of our segments. Intelligent Cloud revenue increased, driven by server products and cloud services. Productivity and Business Processes revenue increased, driven by Office and LinkedIn. More Personal Computing revenue increased, driven by Surface and Gaming.  
Operating income increased $1.6 billion or 18%, driven by growth across each of our segments.  
Cost of revenue increased $1.4 billion or 12%, driven by growth in commercial cloud and Surface.  
Research and development expenses increased $566 million or 16%, driven by investments in cloud engineering. 
Current year net income and diluted EPS were negatively impacted by the net charge related to TCJA, which resulted in a decrease to net income and diluted EPS of $157 million and $0.02, respectively. Prior year net loss and diluted EPS were negatively impacted by the net charge related to TCJA, which resulted in a decrease to net income and diluted EPS of $13.8 billion and $1.78, respectively. 
Item 2 
Revenue increased $8.1 billion or 15%, driven by growth across each of our segments. Intelligent Cloud revenue increased, driven by server products and cloud services. Productivity and Business Processes revenue increased, driven by Office and LinkedIn. More Personal Computing revenue increased, driven by Gaming and Surface.  
Operating income increased $3.8 billion or 23%, driven by growth across each of our segments.  
Cost of revenue increased $3.0 billion or 15%, driven by growth in commercial cloud, Gaming, and Surface.  
Research and development expenses increased $969 million or 14%, driven by investments in cloud engineering. 
Current year net income and diluted EPS were negatively impacted by the net charge related to TCJA, which resulted in a decrease to net income and diluted EPS of $157 million and $0.02, respectively. Prior year net income and diluted EPS were negatively impacted by the net charge related to TCJA, which resulted in a decrease to net income and diluted EPS of $13.8 billion and $1.76, respectively. 
Three Months Ended December 31, 2018 Compared with Three Months Ended December 31, 2017  
Productivity and Business Processes  
Revenue increased $1.1 billion or 13%.  
Office Commercial revenue increased $669 million or 11%, driven by Office 365 commercial, due to growth in subscribers and average revenue per user, offset in part by lower revenue from products licensed on-premises, reflecting a continued shift to Office 365 commercial. 
Office Consumer revenue increased $13 million or 1%, driven by Office 365 consumer, due to growth in subscribers, offset in part by lower revenue from products licensed on-premises, reflecting a continued shift to Office 365 consumer. 
Item 2 
LinkedIn revenue increased $381 million or 29%, with strong engagement highlighted by LinkedIn sessions growth. 
Operating income increased $678 million or 20%.  
Operating expenses increased $102 million or 3%, driven by investments in LinkedIn and cloud engineering, offset in part by a decrease in marketing.  
Revenue increased $1.6 billion or 20%.  
Server products and cloud services revenue, including GitHub, increased $1.5 billion or 24%, driven by Azure. Azure revenue growth was 76%, due to higher infrastructure-as-a-service and platform-as-a-service consumption-based and per user-based services. Server products revenue increased 3%, due to a higher mix of premium licenses for Windows Server and GitHub. 
Enterprise Services revenue increased $86 million or 6%, driven by growth in Premier Support Services and Microsoft Consulting Services. 
Operating income increased $447 million or 16%.  
Operating expenses increased $644 million or 26%, driven by investments in cloud and artificial intelligence (“AI”) engineering, GitHub, and commercial sales capacity.  
More Personal Computing  
Revenue increased $823 million or 7%.  
Windows revenue decreased $81 million or 2%, driven by a decrease in Windows OEM and patent licensing, offset in part by growth in Windows Commercial. Windows OEM revenue decreased 5%. Windows OEM non-Pro revenue declined 11%, below the consumer PC market, with continued pressure in the entry-level category. Windows OEM Pro revenue declined 2%, in line with the commercial PC market. Windows Commercial revenue increased 13%, with continued customer adoption of premium offerings. 
Gaming revenue increased $312 million or 8%, driven by Xbox software and services growth of 31%, primarily due to third-party title strength, offset in part by a decline in Xbox hardware of 19% due to the launch of Xbox One X in the second quarter of fiscal year 2018.  
Search advertising revenue increased $156 million or 9%. Search advertising revenue, excluding traffic acquisition costs, increased 14%, driven by growth in Bing, due to higher revenue per search and search volume.  
Operating income increased $454 million or 18%.  
Item 2 
Productivity and Business Processes  
Revenue increased $2.7 billion or 16%.  
Office Commercial revenue increased $1.6 billion or 14%, driven by Office 365 commercial, due to growth in subscribers and average revenue per user, offset in part by lower revenue from products licensed on-premises, reflecting a continued shift to Office 365 commercial.  
Office Consumer revenue increased $153 million or 8%, driven by Office 365 consumer, due to growth in subscribers. 
LinkedIn revenue increased $763 million or 31%, with strong engagement highlighted by LinkedIn sessions growth.  
Operating income increased $1.6 billion or 24%.  
Operating expenses increased $330 million or 5%, driven by investments in LinkedIn and cloud engineering, offset in part by a decrease in marketing.  
Revenue increased $3.2 billion or 22%.  
Server products and cloud services revenue, including GitHub, increased $3.1 billion or 26%, driven by Azure. Azure revenue growth was 76%, due to higher infrastructure-as-a-service and platform-as-a-service consumption-based and per user-based services. Server products revenue increased 6%, due to a higher mix of premium licenses for Windows Server. 
Enterprise Services revenue increased $165 million or 6%, driven by growth in Premier Support Services and Microsoft Consulting Services. 
Operating income increased $1.2 billion or 25%.  
Operating expenses increased $1.1 billion or 23%, driven by investments in cloud and AI engineering, commercial sales capacity, and GitHub.  
More Personal Computing  
Revenue increased $2.2 billion or 10%.  
Windows revenue increased $177 million or 2%, driven by growth in Windows Commercial, offset in part by a decline in patent licensing and Windows OEM. Windows Commercial revenue increased 13%, with continued customer adoption of premium offerings. Windows OEM revenue decreased 1%. Windows OEM Pro revenue grew 3%, slightly ahead of the commercial PC market. Windows OEM non-Pro revenue declined 8%, below the consumer PC market, with continued pressure in the entry-level category.  
Gaming revenue increased $1.2 billion or 20%, driven by Xbox software and services growth of 33%, primarily due to third-party title strength, offset in part by a decline in Xbox hardware of 4%. 
Search advertising revenue increased $305 million or 9%. Search advertising revenue, excluding traffic acquisition costs, increased 15%, driven by growth in Bing, due to higher revenue per search and search volume.  
Item 2 
Operating income increased $1.0 billion or 20%.  
Research and Development  
Three Months Ended December 31, 2018 Compared with Three Months Ended December 31, 2017  
Research and development expenses increased $566 million or 16%, driven by investments in cloud engineering. 
Research and development expenses increased $969 million or 14%, driven by investments in cloud engineering.  
Sales and Marketing 
Three Months Ended December 31, 2018 Compared with Three Months Ended December 31, 2017 
Item 2 
General and Administrative  
Three Months Ended December 31, 2018 Compared with Three Months Ended December 31, 2017 
General and administrative expenses increased $23 million or 2%. 
General and administrative expenses increased slightly.  
Three Months Ended December 31, 2018 Compared with Three Months Ended December 31, 2017 
Interest and dividends income increased primarily due to higher yields on fixed-income securities. Interest expense decreased primarily driven by a decrease in outstanding long-term debt due to debt maturities, offset in part by higher finance lease expense. Net recognized gains on investments decreased primarily due to lower gains on sales of equity investments. Net gains on derivatives includes gains on foreign exchange derivatives in the current period as compared to losses in the prior period. 
Interest and dividends income increased primarily due to higher yields on fixed-income securities. Interest expense decreased primarily driven by a decrease in outstanding long-term debt due to debt maturities, offset in part by higher finance lease expense. Net recognized gains on investments decreased primarily due to lower gains on sales of equity investments. Net gains on derivatives includes gains on foreign exchange derivatives in the current period as compared to losses in the prior period.  
Item 2 
Effective Tax Rate 
Our effective tax rate was 19% and 169% for the three months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and 16% and 98% for the six months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The decrease in our effective tax rate for the three and six months ended December 31, 2018 compared to the prior year was primarily due to the net charge related to the enactment of the TCJA in the second quarter of fiscal year 2018.  
The TCJA was effective in the second quarter of fiscal year 2018. We recorded a provisional net charge of $13.8 billion in the second quarter of fiscal year 2018, and $13.7 billion for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018, related to the TCJA. We adjusted our provisional net charge by recording additional tax expense of $157 million in the second quarter of fiscal year 2019 related to GILTI deferred taxes pursuant to SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118. Refer to Note 11 – Income Taxes of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q) for further discussion. 
Uncertain Tax Positions 
Item 2 
Not meaningful. 
Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments totaled $127.7 billion and $133.8 billion as of December 31, 2018 and June 30, 2018, respectively. Equity investments were $2.3 billion and $1.9 billion as of December 31, 2018 and June 30, 2018, respectively. Our short-term investments are primarily intended to facilitate liquidity and capital preservation. They consist predominantly of highly liquid investment-grade fixed-income securities, diversified among industries and individual issuers. The investments are predominantly U.S. dollar-denominated securities, but also include foreign currency-denominated securities to diversify risk. Our fixed-income investments are exposed to interest rate risk and credit risk. The credit risk and average maturity of our fixed-income portfolio are managed to achieve economic returns that correlate to certain fixed-income indices. The settlement risk related to these investments is insignificant given that the short-term investments held are primarily highly liquid investment-grade fixed-income securities.  
Valuation  
In general, and where applicable, we use quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities to determine the fair value of our financial instruments. This pricing methodology applies to our Level 1 investments, such as U.S. government securities, common and preferred stock, and mutual funds. If quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities are not available to determine fair value, then we use quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities or inputs other than the quoted prices that are observable either directly or indirectly. This pricing methodology applies to our Level 2 investments, such as commercial paper, certificates of deposit, U.S. agency securities, foreign government bonds, mortgage- and asset-backed securities, corporate notes and bonds, and municipal securities. Level 3 investments are valued using internally developed models with unobservable inputs. Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis using unobservable inputs are an immaterial portion of our portfolio.  
A majority of our investments are priced by pricing vendors and are generally Level 1 or Level 2 investments as these vendors either provide a quoted market price in an active market or use observable inputs for their pricing without applying significant adjustments. Broker pricing is used mainly when a quoted price is not available, the investment is not priced by our pricing vendors, or when a broker price is more reflective of fair values in the market in which the investment trades. Our broker-priced investments are generally classified as Level 2 investments because the broker prices these investments based on similar assets without applying significant adjustments. In addition, all our broker-priced investments have a sufficient level of trading volume to demonstrate that the fair values used are appropriate for these investments. Our fair value processes include controls that are designed to ensure appropriate fair values are recorded. These controls include model validation, review of key model inputs, analysis of period-over-period fluctuations, and independent recalculation of prices where appropriate.  
Item 2 
Debt  
We issued debt to take advantage of favorable pricing and liquidity in the debt markets, reflecting our credit rating and the low interest rate environment. The proceeds of these issuances were or will be used for general corporate purposes, which may include, among other things, funding for working capital, capital expenditures, repurchases of capital stock, acquisitions, and repayment of existing debt. Refer to Note 10 – Debt of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q) for further discussion.  
Unearned Revenue  
Share Repurchases  
For the six months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, we repurchased 81 million shares and 44 million shares of our common stock for $8.7 billion and $3.4 billion, respectively, through our share repurchase programs. All repurchases were made using cash resources. Refer to Note 15 – Stockholders’ Equity of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q) for further discussion. 
Dividends  
Refer to Note 15 – Stockholders’ Equity of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q) for further discussion. 
Item 2 
Other Planned Uses of Capital  
We will continue to invest in sales, marketing, product support infrastructure, and existing and advanced areas of technology, as well as continue making acquisitions that align with our business strategy. Additions to property and equipment will continue, including new facilities, datacenters, and computer systems for research and development, sales and marketing, support, and administrative staff. We expect capital expenditures to increase in coming years to support growth in our cloud offerings. We have operating and finance leases for datacenters, corporate offices, research and development facilities, retail stores, and certain equipment. We have not engaged in any related party transactions or arrangements with unconsolidated entities or other persons that are reasonably likely to materially affect liquidity or the availability of capital resources.  
Liquidity  
We expect existing cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments, cash flows from operations, and access to capital markets to continue to be sufficient to fund our operating activities and cash commitments for investing and financing activities, such as dividends, share repurchases, debt maturities, material capital expenditures, and the transition tax related to the TCJA, for at least the next 12 months and thereafter for the foreseeable future.  
Refer to Note 1 – Accounting Policies of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q) for further discussion. 
Revenue Recognition  
Our contracts with customers often include promises to transfer multiple products and services to a customer. Determining whether products and services are considered distinct performance obligations that should be accounted for separately versus together may require significant judgment. When a cloud-based service includes both on-premises software licenses and cloud services, judgment is required to determine whether the software license is considered distinct and accounted for separately, or not distinct and accounted for together with the cloud service and recognized over time. Certain cloud services, primarily Office 365, depend on a significant level of integration, interdependency, and interrelation between the desktop applications and cloud services, and are accounted for together as one performance obligation. Revenue from Office 365 is recognized ratably over the period in which the cloud services are provided.  
Item 2 
Judgment is required to determine the stand-alone selling price (“SSP") for each distinct performance obligation. We use a single amount to estimate SSP for items that are not sold separately, including on-premises licenses sold with SA or software updates provided at no additional charge. We use a range of amounts to estimate SSP when we sell each of the products and services separately and need to determine whether there is a discount to be allocated based on the relative SSP of the various products and services.  
Impairment of Investment Securities  
Equity investments without readily determinable fair values are written down to fair value if a qualitative assessment indicates that the investment is impaired and the fair value of the investment is less than carrying value. We perform a qualitative assessment on a quarterly basis. We are required to estimate the fair value of the investment to determine the amount of the impairment loss. Once an investment is determined to be impaired, an impairment charge is recorded in other income (expense), net. 
We allocate goodwill to reporting units based on the reporting unit expected to benefit from the business combination. We evaluate our reporting units on an annual basis and, if necessary, reassign goodwill using a relative fair value allocation approach. Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level (operating segment or one level below an operating segment) on an annual basis (May 1 for us) and between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. These events or circumstances could include a significant change in the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, or sale or disposition of a significant portion of a reporting unit.  
Application of the goodwill impairment test requires judgment, including the identification of reporting units, assignment of assets and liabilities to reporting units, assignment of goodwill to reporting units, and determination of the fair value of each reporting unit. The fair value of each reporting unit is estimated primarily through the use of a discounted cash flow methodology. This analysis requires significant judgments, including estimation of future cash flows, which is dependent on internal forecasts, estimation of the long-term rate of growth for our business, estimation of the useful life over which cash flows will occur, and determination of our weighted average cost of capital.  
Item 2 
Legal and Other Contingencies  
Inventories  
Item 2 
In connection with our acquisition of GitHub, Inc. on October 25, 2018, we issued 52,695,909 shares of Microsoft common stock to certain holders of capital stock of GitHub. The offer and sale of the shares were not registered under the Securities Act and were made in reliance upon the exemption from registration under Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act for an issuance not involving a public offering. 
All repurchases were made using cash resources. Our stock repurchases may occur through open market purchases or pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 trading plan. The above table excludes shares repurchased to settle employee tax withholding related to the vesting of stock awards. 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned; thereunto duly authorized.  
