Item 2 
Note About Forward-Looking Statements 
Microsoft is a technology company whose mission is to empower every person and every organization on the planet to achieve more. We strive to create local opportunity, growth, and impact in every country around the world. Our platforms and tools help drive small business productivity, large business competitiveness, and public-sector efficiency. They also support new startups, improve educational and health outcomes, and empower human ingenuity. 
We generate revenue by offering a wide range of cloud-based and other services to people and businesses; licensing and supporting an array of software products; designing, manufacturing, and selling devices; and delivering relevant online advertising to a global audience. Our most significant expenses are related to compensating employees; designing, manufacturing, marketing, and selling our products and services; datacenter costs in support of our cloud-based services; and income taxes. 
Commercial cloud revenue, which includes Microsoft Office 365 Commercial, Microsoft Azure, the commercial portion of LinkedIn, Microsoft Dynamics 365, and other commercial cloud properties, increased 36% to $11.6 billion. 
Office Commercial revenue increased 13%, driven by Office 365 Commercial growth of 25%. 
Office Consumer revenue increased 5%, and Office 365 Consumer subscribers increased to 35.6 million. 
LinkedIn revenue increased 25%. 
Server products and cloud services revenue increased 30%, driven by Azure growth of 59%. 
Enterprise Services revenue increased 7%. 
Windows original equipment manufacturer licensing (“Windows OEM”) revenue increased 9%. 
Windows Commercial revenue increased 26%. 
Search advertising revenue, excluding traffic acquisition costs, increased 11%. 
Xbox content and services revenue was relatively unchanged.  
Microsoft Surface revenue decreased 4%. 
Item 2 
Industry Trends  
Our success is highly dependent on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees. We hire a mix of university and industry talent worldwide. We compete for talented individuals globally by offering an exceptional working environment, broad customer reach, scale in resources, the ability to grow one’s career across many different products and businesses, and competitive compensation and benefits. Aggregate demand for our software, services, and devices is correlated to global macroeconomic and geopolitical factors, which remain dynamic. 
Additional information on our reportable segments is contained in Note 16 – Segment Information and Geographic Data of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q). 
Item 2 
The financial results of GitHub have been included in our consolidated financial statements since the date of the acquisition on October 25, 2018. 
Three Months Ended September 30, 2019 Compared with Three Months Ended September 30, 2018 
Revenue increased $4.0 billion or 14%, driven by growth across each of our segments. Intelligent Cloud revenue increased, driven by server products and cloud services. Productivity and Business Processes revenue increased, driven by Office and LinkedIn. More Personal Computing revenue increased, driven by Windows. 
Operating income increased $2.7 billion or 27%, driven by growth across each of our segments. 
Cost of revenue increased $501 million or 5%, driven by growth in commercial cloud, offset in part by a decline in Gaming. 
Research and development expenses increased $588 million or 15%, driven by investments in cloud and artificial intelligence (“AI”) engineering, Gaming, GitHub, and LinkedIn. 
Sales and marketing expenses increased $239 million or 6%, driven by investments in LinkedIn, GitHub, and revenue-driven operating expenses.  
General and administrative expenses decreased $88 million or 8%. 
Item 2 
Three Months Ended September 30, 2019 Compared with Three Months Ended September 30, 2018 
Revenue increased $1.3 billion or 13%.  
Office Commercial revenue increased $807 million or 13%, driven by Office 365 Commercial, offset in part by lower revenue from products licensed on-premises, reflecting a continued shift to cloud offerings. Office 365 Commercial revenue grew 25%, due to growth in seats and higher average revenue per user. 
Office Consumer revenue increased $51 million or 5%, driven by Office 365 Consumer, due to recurring subscription revenue, and transactional strength in Japan.  
LinkedIn revenue increased $379 million or 25%, driven by growth across each line of business. 
Operating income increased $901 million or 23%. 
Operating expenses increased $287 million or 8%, driven by investments in LinkedIn and cloud engineering. 
Revenue increased $2.3 billion or 27%.  
Server products and cloud services revenue increased $2.1 billion or 30%, driven by Azure. Azure revenue grew 59%, due to higher infrastructure-as-a-service and platform-as-a-service consumption-based services and per user-based services. Server products revenue increased 12%, due to hybrid and premium solutions, demand related to Microsoft SQL Server 2008 and Windows Server 2008 end-of-support, and GitHub. 
Enterprise Services revenue increased $95 million or 7%, driven by growth in Premier Support Services. 
Operating income increased $958 million or 33%.  
Operating expenses increased $636 million or 22%, driven by investments in cloud and AI engineering, as well as GitHub.  
More Personal Computing  
Revenue increased $387 million or 4%.  
Windows revenue increased $452 million or 9%, driven by growth in Windows Commercial and Windows OEM, offset in part by a decline in patent licensing. Windows Commercial revenue increased 26%, driven by an increase in Microsoft 365 agreements, which carry higher in-quarter revenue recognition. Windows OEM revenue increased 9%. Windows OEM Pro revenue grew 19%, ahead of the commercial PC market, driven by healthy Windows 10 demand and strong momentum in advance of Windows 7 end of support. Windows OEM non-Pro revenue declined 7%, below the consumer PC market, driven by continued pressure in the entry level category.  
Item 2 
Surface revenue decreased $44 million or 4%, driven by the timing of product lifecycle transitions. 
Operating income increased $872 million or 28%, including an unfavorable foreign currency impact of 3%.  
Operating expenses decreased $184 million or 7%, driven by the redeployment of engineering resources, offset in part by investments in Gaming.  
Three Months Ended September 30, 2019 Compared with Three Months Ended September 30, 2018 
Research and development expenses increased $588 million or 15%, driven by investments in cloud and AI engineering, Gaming, GitHub, and LinkedIn. 
Sales and Marketing 
Three Months Ended September 30, 2019 Compared with Three Months Ended September 30, 2018 
Sales and marketing expenses increased $239 million  or 6%, driven by investments in LinkedIn, GitHub, and revenue-driven operating expenses.  
Item 2 
General and Administrative  
Three Months Ended September 30, 2019 Compared with Three Months Ended September 30, 2018 
General and administrative expenses decreased $88 million or 8%. 
Three Months Ended September 30, 2019 Compared with Three Months Ended September 30, 2018 
Interest and dividends income increased primarily due to higher yields on fixed-income securities. Interest expense decreased primarily due to capitalization of interest expense and a decrease in outstanding long-term debt due to debt maturities, offset in part by higher finance lease expense. Net recognized losses on investments include losses on equity investments in the current period compared to gains in the prior period. Net gains on derivatives includes higher gains on foreign exchange derivatives in the current period compared to the prior period.  
Effective Tax Rate 
Item 2 
Uncertain Tax Positions 
Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments totaled $136.6 billion and $133.8 billion as of September 30, 2019 and June 30, 2019. Equity investments were $2.7 billion and $2.6 billion as of September 30, 2019 and June 30, 2019, respectively. Our short-term investments are primarily intended to facilitate liquidity and capital preservation. They consist predominantly of highly liquid investment-grade fixed-income securities, diversified among industries and individual issuers. The investments are predominantly U.S. dollar-denominated securities, but also include foreign currency-denominated securities to diversify risk. Our fixed-income investments are exposed to interest rate risk and credit risk. The credit risk and average maturity of our fixed-income portfolio are managed to achieve economic returns that correlate to certain fixed-income indices. The settlement risk related to these investments is insignificant given that the short-term investments held are primarily highly liquid investment-grade fixed-income securities.  
Valuation  
In general, and where applicable, we use quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities to determine the fair value of our financial instruments. This pricing methodology applies to our Level 1 investments, such as U.S. government securities, common and preferred stock, and mutual funds. If quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities are not available to determine fair value, then we use quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities or inputs other than the quoted prices that are observable either directly or indirectly. This pricing methodology applies to our Level 2 investments, such as commercial paper, certificates of deposit, U.S. agency securities, foreign government bonds, mortgage- and asset-backed securities, corporate notes and bonds, and municipal securities. Level 3 investments are valued using internally-developed models with unobservable inputs. Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis using unobservable inputs are an immaterial portion of our portfolio.  
A majority of our investments are priced by pricing vendors and are generally Level 1 or Level 2 investments as these vendors either provide a quoted market price in an active market or use observable inputs for their pricing without applying significant adjustments. Broker pricing is used mainly when a quoted price is not available, the investment is not priced by our pricing vendors, or when a broker price is more reflective of fair values in the market in which the investment trades. Our broker-priced investments are generally classified as Level 2 investments because the broker prices these investments based on similar assets without applying significant adjustments. In addition, all our broker-priced investments have a sufficient level of trading volume to demonstrate that the fair values used are appropriate for these investments. Our fair value processes include controls that are designed to ensure appropriate fair values are recorded. These controls include model validation, review of key model inputs, analysis of period-over-period fluctuations, and independent recalculation of prices where appropriate.  
Item 2 
Three Months Ended September 30, 2019 Compared with Three Months Ended September 30, 2018 
Debt  
We issue debt to take advantage of favorable pricing and liquidity in the debt markets, reflecting our credit rating and the low interest rate environment. The proceeds of these issuances were or will be used for general corporate purposes, which may include, among other things, funding for working capital, capital expenditures, repurchases of capital stock, acquisitions, and repayment of existing debt. Our last debt issuance occurred in fiscal year 2017. Refer to Note 9 – Debt of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q) for further discussion.  
Unearned Revenue  
Share Repurchases  
For the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, we repurchased 29 million shares and 24 million shares of our common stock for $4.0 billion and $2.6 billion, respectively, through our share repurchase program. All repurchases were made using cash resources. Refer to Note 14 – Stockholders’ Equity of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q) for further discussion. 
Dividends  
Refer to Note 14 – Stockholders’ Equity of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q) for further discussion. 
Item 2 
Other Planned Uses of Capital  
We will continue to invest in sales, marketing, product support infrastructure, and existing and advanced areas of technology, as well as continue making acquisitions that align with our business strategy. Additions to property and equipment will continue, including new facilities, datacenters, and computer systems for research and development, sales and marketing, support, and administrative staff. We expect capital expenditures to increase in coming years to support growth in our cloud offerings. We have operating and finance leases for datacenters, corporate offices, research and development facilities, retail stores, and certain equipment. We have not engaged in any related party transactions or arrangements with unconsolidated entities or other persons that are reasonably likely to materially affect liquidity or the availability of capital resources.  
Liquidity 
As a result of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“TCJA”), we are required to pay a one-time transition tax on deferred foreign income not previously subject to U.S. income tax. Under the TCJA, the transition tax is payable in interest-free installments over eight years, with 8% due in each of the first five years, 15% in year six, 20% in year seven, and 25% in year eight. We have paid transition tax of $3.2 billion, which included $1.2 billion during the three months ended September 30, 2019. The remaining transition tax of $15.2 billion is payable over the next six years with a final payment in fiscal year 2026. During the three months ended September 30, 2019, we also paid $3.5 billion related to the transfer of intangible properties that occurred in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2019. 
We expect existing cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments, cash flows from operations, and access to capital markets to continue to be sufficient to fund our operating activities and cash commitments for investing and financing activities, such as dividends, share repurchases, debt maturities, material capital expenditures, and the transition tax related to the TCJA, for at least the next 12 months and thereafter for the foreseeable future.  
Refer to Note 1 – Accounting Policies of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q) for further discussion. 
Item 2 
Revenue Recognition  
Our contracts with customers often include promises to transfer multiple products and services to a customer. Determining whether products and services are considered distinct performance obligations that should be accounted for separately versus together may require significant judgment. When a cloud-based service includes both on-premises software licenses and cloud services, judgment is required to determine whether the software license is considered distinct and accounted for separately, or not distinct and accounted for together with the cloud service and recognized over time. Certain cloud services, primarily Office 365, depend on a significant level of integration, interdependency, and interrelation between the desktop applications and cloud services, and are accounted for together as one performance obligation. Revenue from Office 365 is recognized ratably over the period in which the cloud services are provided.  
Judgment is required to determine the stand-alone selling price (“SSP") for each distinct performance obligation. We use a single amount to estimate SSP for items that are not sold separately, including on-premises licenses sold with SA or software updates provided at no additional charge. We use a range of amounts to estimate SSP when we sell each of the products and services separately and need to determine whether there is a discount to be allocated based on the relative SSP of the various products and services.  
Impairment of Investment Securities  
Equity investments without readily determinable fair values are written down to fair value if a qualitative assessment indicates that the investment is impaired and the fair value of the investment is less than carrying value. We perform a qualitative assessment on a quarterly basis. We are required to estimate the fair value of the investment to determine the amount of the impairment loss. Once an investment is determined to be impaired, an impairment charge is recorded in other income (expense), net.  
Item 2 
Application of the goodwill impairment test requires judgment, including the identification of reporting units, assignment of assets and liabilities to reporting units, assignment of goodwill to reporting units, and determination of the fair value of each reporting unit. The fair value of each reporting unit is estimated primarily through the use of a discounted cash flow methodology. This analysis requires significant judgments, including estimation of future cash flows, which is dependent on internal forecasts, estimation of the long-term rate of growth for our business, estimation of the useful life over which cash flows will occur, and determination of our weighted average cost of capital.  
Item 2 
Legal and Other Contingencies  
Inventories  
Item 2 
All share repurchases were made using cash resources. Our share repurchases may occur through open market purchases or pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 trading plan. The above table excludes shares repurchased to settle employee tax withholding related to the vesting of stock awards.  
We returned $7.9 billion to shareholders in the form of share repurchases and dividends in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020. Refer to Note 14 – Stockholders’ Equity of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q) for further discussion regarding share repurchases and dividends. 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned; thereunto duly authorized.  
