Item 2 
Note About Forward-Looking Statements  
Microsoft is a technology company whose mission is to empower every person and every organization on the planet to achieve more. We strive to create local opportunity, growth, and impact in every country around the world. Our platforms and tools help drive small business productivity, large business competitiveness, and public-sector efficiency. They also support new startups, improve educational and health outcomes, and empower human ingenuity.  
We generate revenue by licensing and supporting an array of software products; offering a wide range of cloud-based and other services to people and businesses; designing, manufacturing, and selling devices; and delivering relevant online advertising to a global audience. Our most significant expenses are related to compensating employees; designing, manufacturing, marketing, and selling our products and services; datacenter costs in support of our cloud-based services; and income taxes.  
Office Consumer revenue increased 16%, with continued growth in Office 365 consumer subscribers to 32.5 million. 
Dynamics revenue increased 20%, driven by Dynamics 365 revenue growth of 51%.  
Server products and cloud services revenue increased 28%, driven by Azure revenue growth of 76%.  
Enterprise Services revenue increased 6%. 
Windows Commercial revenue increased 12%, driven by an increased volume of multi-year agreements. 
Windows original equipment manufacturer licensing (“Windows OEM”) revenue increased 3%, driven by OEM Pro revenue growth of 8%. 
Gaming revenue increased 44%, with Xbox software and services revenue growth of 36%, mainly from third-party title strength.  
Item 2 
Microsoft Surface revenue increased 14%. 
We have recast certain prior period commercial cloud metrics to include the commercial portion of LinkedIn to provide a comparable view of our commercial cloud business performance. The commercial portion of LinkedIn includes LinkedIn Recruiter, Sales Navigator, premium business subscriptions, and other services for organizations. 
On June 4, 2018, we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire GitHub, Inc. in a $7.5 billion stock transaction (inclusive of total cash payments of $1.3 billion in respect of vested GitHub equity awards and an indemnity escrow). The transaction is expected to close by the end of October 2018. 
Industry Trends  
Our success is highly dependent on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees. We hire a mix of university and industry talent worldwide. We compete for talented individuals globally by offering an exceptional working environment, broad customer reach, scale in resources, the ability to grow one’s career across many different products and businesses, and competitive compensation and benefits. Aggregate demand for our software, services, and devices is correlated to global macroeconomic and geopolitical factors, which remain dynamic.  
Item 2 
Additional information on our reportable segments is contained in Note 17 – Segment Information and Geographic Data of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q).  
Three Months Ended September 30, 2018 Compared with Three Months Ended September 30, 2017  
Revenue increased $4.5 billion or 19%, driven by growth across each of our segments. Intelligent Cloud revenue increased, driven by higher revenue from server products and cloud services. Productivity and Business Processes revenue increased, driven by higher revenue from Office and LinkedIn. More Personal Computing revenue increased, driven by higher revenue from Gaming and Windows.  
Operating income increased $2.2 billion or 29%, driven by growth across each of our segments.  
Cost of revenue increased $1.6 billion or 20%, driven by growth in commercial cloud and Gaming.  
Research and development expenses increased $403 million or 11%, driven by investments in cloud engineering and LinkedIn. 
Item 2 
Three Months Ended September 30, 2018 Compared with Three Months Ended September 30, 2017  
Revenue increased $1.5 billion or 19%.  
Office Commercial revenue increased $913 million or 17%, driven by Office 365 commercial revenue growth, due to growth in subscribers and average revenue per user, offset in part by lower revenue from products licensed on-premises, reflecting a continued shift to Office 365 commercial.  
Office Consumer revenue increased $140 million or 16%, driven by Office 365 consumer revenue growth, due to growth in subscribers and average revenue per user. 
LinkedIn revenue increased $382 million or 33%, with continued acceleration in engagement highlighted by LinkedIn sessions growth of 34%. 
Dynamics revenue increased 20%, driven by Dynamics 365 revenue growth.  
Operating income increased $875 million or 29%, including a favorable foreign currency impact of 2%.  
Operating expenses increased $228 million or 7%, driven by investments in LinkedIn, cloud engineering, and commercial sales capacity.  
Revenue increased $1.6 billion or 24%. 
Server products and cloud services revenue increased $1.6 billion or 28%, driven by Azure. Azure revenue growth was 76%, due to higher infrastructure-as-a-service and platform-as-a-service consumption-based and per user-based services. Server products licensed on-premises revenue increased 10%, due to a higher mix of premium licenses for Windows Server and Microsoft SQL Server. 
Enterprise Services revenue increased $79 million or 6%, driven by higher revenue from Premier Support Services and Microsoft Consulting Services. 
Item 2 
Operating income increased $794 million or 37%.  
Operating expenses increased $475 million or 19%, driven by investments in cloud and artificial intelligence engineering and commercial sales capacity.  
More Personal Computing 
Windows revenue increased $258 million or 6%, driven by growth in Windows Commercial and Windows OEM. Windows Commercial revenue increased 12%, due to an increased volume of multi-year agreements. Windows OEM revenue increased 3%. Windows OEM Pro revenue grew 8%, ahead of the commercial PC market, due to a higher mix of premium licenses. Windows OEM non-Pro revenue declined 5%, below the consumer PC market, due to continued pressure in the entry-level price category.  
Gaming revenue increased $842 million or 44%, driven by Xbox software and services revenue growth of 36%, due to third-party title strength, and Xbox hardware revenue growth of 94%, against a low prior year comparable due to timing of the Xbox One X launch in the second quarter of fiscal year 2018.  
Search advertising revenue increased $149 million or 9%. Search advertising revenue, excluding traffic acquisition costs, increased 17%, driven by growth in Bing, due to higher revenue per search and search volume. 
Surface revenue increased $143 million or 14%. 
Operating income increased $578 million or 23%. 
Operating expenses decreased $31 million or 1%.  
Research and Development  
Three Months Ended September 30, 2018 Compared with Three Months Ended September 30, 2017  
Research and development expenses increased $403 million or 11%, driven by investments in cloud engineering and LinkedIn. 
Item 2 
Sales and Marketing 
Three Months Ended September 30, 2018 Compared with Three Months Ended September 30, 2017 
General and Administrative  
Three Months Ended September 30, 2018 Compared with Three Months Ended September 30, 2017 
General and administrative expenses decreased $17 million or 1%.  
Item 2 
Three Months Ended September 30, 2018 Compared with Three Months Ended September 30, 2017 
Interest and dividends income increased primarily due to higher yields on fixed-income securities. Interest expense increased slightly primarily due to higher finance lease expense, offset in part by a decrease in outstanding long-term debt due to debt maturities. Net recognized gains on investments decreased primarily due to lower gains on sales of equity investments. Net losses on derivatives decreased primarily due to lower losses on foreign exchange derivatives, offset in part by losses on interest rate derivatives in the current period as compared to gains in the prior period and lower gains on equity derivatives.  
Effective Tax Rate 
Item 2 
During fiscal year 2018, we recorded an estimated net charge of $13.7 billion related to the TCJA, due to the impact of the one-time transition tax on the deemed repatriation of deferred foreign income of $17.9 billion, offset in part by the impact of changes in the tax rate of $4.2 billion, primarily on deferred tax assets and liabilities. 
Uncertain Tax Positions 
Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments totaled $135.9 billion and $133.8 billion as of September 30, 2018 and June 30, 2018, respectively. Equity investments were $2.0 billion and $1.9 billion as of September 30, 2018 and June 30, 2018, respectively. Our short-term investments are primarily intended to facilitate liquidity and capital preservation. They consist predominantly of highly liquid investment-grade fixed-income securities, diversified among industries and individual issuers. The investments are predominantly U.S. dollar-denominated securities, but also include foreign currency-denominated securities to diversify risk. Our fixed-income investments are exposed to interest rate risk and credit risk. The credit risk and average maturity of our fixed-income portfolio are managed to achieve economic returns that correlate to certain fixed-income indices. The settlement risk related to these investments is insignificant given that the short-term investments held are primarily highly liquid investment-grade fixed-income securities.  
Valuation  
In general, and where applicable, we use quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities to determine the fair value of our financial instruments. This pricing methodology applies to our Level 1 investments, such as U.S. government securities, common and preferred stock, and mutual funds. If quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities are not available to determine fair value, then we use quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities or inputs other than the quoted prices that are observable either directly or indirectly. This pricing methodology applies to our Level 2 investments such as corporate notes and bonds, foreign government bonds, mortgage- and asset-backed securities, commercial paper, certificates of deposit, and U.S. agency securities. Level 3 investments are valued using internally developed models with unobservable inputs. Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis using unobservable inputs are an immaterial portion of our portfolio.  
Item 2 
A majority of our investments are priced by pricing vendors and are generally Level 1 or Level 2 investments as these vendors either provide a quoted market price in an active market or use observable inputs for their pricing without applying significant adjustments. Broker pricing is used mainly when a quoted price is not available, the investment is not priced by our pricing vendors, or when a broker price is more reflective of fair values in the market in which the investment trades. Our broker-priced investments are generally classified as Level 2 investments because the broker prices these investments based on similar assets without applying significant adjustments. In addition, all our broker-priced investments have a sufficient level of trading volume to demonstrate that the fair values used are appropriate for these investments. Our fair value processes include controls that are designed to ensure appropriate fair values are recorded. These controls include model validation, review of key model inputs, analysis of period-over-period fluctuations, and independent recalculation of prices where appropriate.  
Cash from operations increased $1.2 billion to $13.7 billion for the three months ended September 30, 2018, mainly due to an increase in cash received from customers, offset in part by an increase in cash paid for income taxes, and an increase in cash paid to suppliers and employees. Cash used in financing increased $1.0 billion to $7.4 billion for the three months ended September 30, 2018, mainly due to a $1.2 billion increase in common stock repurchases and a $630 million increase in other financing, primarily for supplier financing, offset in part by a $925 million decrease in repayments of debt, net of proceeds. Cash used in investing decreased $4.0 billion to $3.0 billion for the three months ended September 30, 2018, mainly due to a $5.6 billion decrease in net investment purchases, sales, and maturities, offset in part by a $1.5 billion increase in additions to property and equipment. 
Debt  
We issued debt to take advantage of favorable pricing and liquidity in the debt markets, reflecting our credit rating and the low interest rate environment. The proceeds of these issuances were or will be used for general corporate purposes, which may include, among other things, funding for working capital, capital expenditures, repurchases of capital stock, acquisitions, and repayment of existing debt. Refer to Note 10 – Debt of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q) for further discussion.  
Unearned Revenue  
Unearned revenue comprises mainly unearned revenue related to volume licensing programs and includes Software Assurance (“SA”) and cloud services. Unearned revenue is generally billed upfront at the beginning of each annual coverage period for multi-year agreements and recognized ratably over the coverage period. Unearned revenue also includes payments for other offerings for which we have been paid in advance and earn the revenue when we transfer control of the product or service.  
Item 2 
Share Repurchases  
For the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, we repurchased 24 million shares and 22 million shares of our common stock for $2.6 billion and $1.6 billion, respectively, through our share repurchase programs. All repurchases were made using cash resources. Refer to Note 15 – Stockholders’ Equity of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q) for further discussion. 
Dividends  
Refer to Note 15 – Stockholders’ Equity of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q) for further discussion. 
Other Planned Uses of Capital  
We will continue to invest in sales, marketing, product support infrastructure, and existing and advanced areas of technology, as well as continue making acquisitions that align with our business strategy. Additions to property and equipment will continue, including new facilities, datacenters, and computer systems for research and development, sales and marketing, support, and administrative staff. We expect capital expenditures to increase in coming years to support growth in our cloud offerings. We have operating and finance leases for datacenters, corporate offices, research and development facilities, retail stores, and certain equipment. We have not engaged in any related party transactions or arrangements with unconsolidated entities or other persons that are reasonably likely to materially affect liquidity or the availability of capital resources.  
Liquidity  
We expect existing cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments, cash flows from operations, and access to capital markets to continue to be sufficient to fund our operating activities and cash commitments for investing and financing activities, such as dividends, share repurchases, debt maturities, material capital expenditures, and the transition tax related to the TCJA, for at least the next 12 months and thereafter for the foreseeable future.  
Refer to Note 1 – Accounting Policies of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q) for further discussion. 
Item 2 
Revenue Recognition  
Our contracts with customers often include promises to transfer multiple products and services to a customer. Determining whether products and services are considered distinct performance obligations that should be accounted for separately versus together may require significant judgment. When a cloud-based service includes both on-premises software licenses and cloud services, judgment is required to determine whether the software license is considered distinct and accounted for separately, or not distinct and accounted for together with the cloud service and recognized over time. Certain cloud services, primarily Office 365, depend on a significant level of integration, interdependency, and interrelation between the desktop applications and cloud services, and are accounted for together as one performance obligation. Revenue from Office 365 is recognized ratably over the period in which the cloud services are provided.  
Judgment is required to determine the stand-alone selling price (“SSP") for each distinct performance obligation. We use a single amount to estimate SSP for items that are not sold separately, including on-premises licenses sold with SA or software updates provided at no additional charge. We use a range of amounts to estimate SSP when we sell each of the products and services separately and need to determine whether there is a discount to be allocated based on the relative SSP of the various products and services.  
Impairment of Investment Securities  
Equity investments without readily determinable fair values are written down to fair value if a qualitative assessment indicates that the investment is impaired and the fair value of the investment is less than carrying value. We perform a qualitative assessment on a quarterly basis. We are required to estimate the fair value of the investment to determine the amount of the impairment loss. Once an investment is determined to be impaired, an impairment charge is recorded in other income (expense), net. 
Item 2 
We allocate goodwill to reporting units based on the reporting unit expected to benefit from the business combination. We evaluate our reporting units on an annual basis and, if necessary, reassign goodwill using a relative fair value allocation approach. Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level (operating segment or one level below an operating segment) on an annual basis (May 1 for us) and between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. These events or circumstances could include a significant change in the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, or sale or disposition of a significant portion of a reporting unit.  
Application of the goodwill impairment test requires judgment, including the identification of reporting units, assignment of assets and liabilities to reporting units, assignment of goodwill to reporting units, and determination of the fair value of each reporting unit. The fair value of each reporting unit is estimated primarily through the use of a discounted cash flow methodology. This analysis requires significant judgments, including estimation of future cash flows, which is dependent on internal forecasts, estimation of the long-term rate of growth for our business, estimation of the useful life over which cash flows will occur, and determination of our weighted average cost of capital.  
Legal and Other Contingencies  
Item 2 
Inventories  
Item 2 
All repurchases were made using cash resources. Our stock repurchases may occur through open market purchases or pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 trading plan. The above table excludes shares repurchased to settle employee tax withholding related to the vesting of stock awards. 
Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned; thereunto duly authorized.  
