Refer to accompanying notes.  
Refer to accompanying notes. Refer to Note 16 – Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) for further information. 
Refer to accompanying notes.  
Refer to accompanying notes.  
Refer to accompanying notes.  
Accounting Principles  
We have recast certain prior period amounts related to investments, derivatives, and fair value measurements to conform to the current period presentation based on our adoption of the new accounting standard for financial instruments. We have also recast prior period commercial cloud revenue to include the commercial portion of LinkedIn to provide a comparable view of our commercial cloud business performance. The commercial portion of LinkedIn includes LinkedIn Recruiter, Sales Navigator, premium business subscriptions, and other services for organizations. The recast of these prior period amounts had no impact on our consolidated financial statements.  
Principles of Consolidation  
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Microsoft Corporation and its subsidiaries. Intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated. 
Estimates and Assumptions  
Financial Instruments 
Investments 
We consider all highly liquid interest-earning investments with a maturity of three months or less at the date of purchase to be cash equivalents. The fair values of these investments approximate their carrying values. In general, investments with original maturities of greater than three months and remaining maturities of less than one year are classified as short-term investments. Investments with maturities beyond one year may be classified as short-term based on their highly liquid nature and because such marketable securities represent the investment of cash that is available for current operations.  
Equity investments with readily determinable fair values are measured at fair value. Equity investments without readily determinable fair values are measured using the equity method, or measured at cost with adjustments for observable changes in price or impairments (referred to as the measurement alternative). We perform a qualitative assessment on a quarterly basis and recognize an impairment if there are sufficient indicators that the fair value of the investment is less than carrying value. Changes in value are recorded in other income (expense), net.  
Derivatives 
Derivative instruments are recognized as either assets or liabilities and are measured at fair value. The accounting for changes in the fair value of a derivative depends on the intended use of the derivative and the resulting designation.  
For derivative instruments designated as fair value hedges, gains and losses are recognized in other income (expense), net with offsetting gains and losses on the hedged items. For options designated as fair value hedges, changes in the time value are excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness and recognized in other income (expense), net.  
For derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the gains and losses are initially reported as a component of OCI and subsequently recognized in revenue when the hedged exposure is recognized in revenue. Gains and losses on derivatives representing either hedge components excluded from the assessment of effectiveness or hedge ineffectiveness are recognized in other income (expense), net.  
For derivative instruments that are not designated as hedges, gains and losses from changes in fair values are primarily recognized in other income (expense), net. 
Fair Value Measurements 
Level 1 – inputs are based upon unadjusted quoted prices for identical instruments in active markets. Our Level 1 investments primarily include U.S. government securities, common and preferred stock, and mutual funds. Our Level 1 derivative assets and liabilities include those actively traded on exchanges.  
Level 2 – inputs are based upon quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active, and model-based valuation techniques (e.g. the Black-Scholes model) for which all significant inputs are observable in the market or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. Where applicable, these models project future cash flows and discount the future amounts to a present value using market-based observable inputs including interest rate curves, credit spreads, foreign exchange rates, and forward and spot prices for currencies. Our Level 2 investments primarily include corporate notes and bonds, foreign government bonds, mortgage- and asset-backed securities, commercial paper, certificates of deposit, and U.S. agency securities. Our Level 2 derivative assets and liabilities primarily include certain over-the-counter option and swap contracts.  
Level 3 – inputs are generally unobservable and typically reflect management’s estimates of assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability. The fair values are therefore determined using model-based techniques, including option pricing models and discounted cash flow models. Our Level 3 assets and liabilities primarily include investments in corporate notes and bonds, and goodwill and intangible assets, when they are recorded at fair value due to an impairment charge. Unobservable inputs used in the models are significant to the fair values of the assets and liabilities.  
Our other current financial assets and current financial liabilities have fair values that approximate their carrying values. 
As of September 30, 2018 and June 30, 2018, long-term accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful accounts, were $1.8 billion and $1.8 billion, respectively, and are included in other long-term assets on our consolidated balance sheets. 
Recent Accounting Guidance  
Income Taxes – Intra-Entity Asset Transfers 
In October 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued new guidance requiring an entity to recognize the income tax consequences of an intra-entity transfer of an asset other than inventory when the transfer occurs, rather than when the asset has been sold to an outside party. We adopted the guidance effective July 1, 2018. Adoption of the guidance was applied using a modified retrospective approach through a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the effective date. We recorded a net cumulative-effect adjustment that resulted in an increase in retained earnings of $557 million, which reversed the previous deferral of income tax consequences and recorded new deferred tax assets from intra-entity transfers involving assets other than inventory, partially offset by a U.S. deferred tax liability related to global intangible low-taxed income (“GILTI”). Adoption of the standard resulted in an increase in long-term deferred tax assets of $2.8 billion, an increase in long-term deferred tax liabilities of $2.1 billion, and a reduction in other current assets of $152 million. As a result of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“TCJA”), we are continuing to evaluate the impact of this standard on our consolidated financial statements, including accounting policies, processes, and systems. Adoption of the standard had no impact to cash from or used in operating, financing, or investing on our consolidated cash flows statements.  
Financial Instruments – Recognition, Measurement, Presentation, and Disclosure  
In January 2016, the FASB issued a new standard related to certain aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure of financial instruments. Most prominent among the changes in the standard is the requirement for changes in the fair value of our equity investments, with certain exceptions, to be recognized through net income rather than OCI. 
We adopted the standard effective July 1, 2018. Adoption of the standard was applied using a modified retrospective approach through a cumulative-effect adjustment from accumulated other comprehensive income (“AOCI”) to retained earnings as of the effective date, and we elected to measure equity investments without readily determinable fair values at cost with adjustments for observable changes in price or impairments. The cumulative-effect adjustment included any previously held unrealized gains and losses held in AOCI related to our equity investments carried at fair value as well as the impact of recording the fair value of certain equity investments carried at cost. The impact on our consolidated balance sheets upon adoption was not material. Adoption of the standard had no impact to cash from or used in operating, financing, or investing on our consolidated cash flows statements. 
Recent Accounting Guidance Not Yet Adopted  
Financial Instruments – Targeted Improvements to Accounting for Hedging Activities  
In August 2017, the FASB issued new guidance related to accounting for hedging activities. This guidance expands strategies that qualify for hedge accounting, changes how many hedging relationships are presented in the financial statements, and simplifies the application of hedge accounting in certain situations. The standard will be effective for us beginning July 1, 2019, with early adoption permitted for any interim or annual period before the effective date. Adoption of the standard will be applied using a modified retrospective approach through a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the effective date. We are currently evaluating the impact of this standard on our consolidated financial statements, including accounting policies, processes, and systems. 
Financial Instruments – Credit Losses  
In June 2016, the FASB issued a new standard to replace the incurred loss impairment methodology under current GAAP with a methodology that reflects expected credit losses and requires consideration of a broader range of reasonable and supportable information to inform credit loss estimates. We will be required to use a forward-looking expected credit loss model for accounts receivables, loans, and other financial instruments. Credit losses relating to available-for-sale debt securities will also be recorded through an allowance for credit losses rather than as a reduction in the amortized cost basis of the securities. The standard will be effective for us beginning July 1, 2020, with early adoption permitted beginning July 1, 2019. Adoption of the standard will be applied using a modified retrospective approach through a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the effective date to align our credit loss methodology with the new standard. We are currently evaluating the impact of this standard on our consolidated financial statements, including accounting policies, processes, and systems.  
Basic earnings per share (“EPS”) is computed based on the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period. Diluted EPS is computed based on the weighted average number of shares of common stock plus the effect of dilutive potential common shares outstanding during the period using the treasury stock method. Dilutive potential common shares include outstanding stock options and stock awards.  
Anti-dilutive stock-based awards excluded from the calculations of diluted EPS were immaterial during the periods presented.  
Net Recognized Gains (Losses) on Investments 
Investment Components  
Refer to Note 5 – Derivatives for further information on the fair value of our derivative instruments. 
Refer to Note 5 – Derivatives for further information on the fair value of our derivative instruments. 
Equity investments presented as “Other” in the tables above include investments without readily determinable fair values measured using the equity method or measured at cost with adjustments for observable changes in price or impairments, and investments measured at fair value using net asset value as a practical expedient which are not categorized in the fair value hierarchy. As of September 30, 2018 and June 30, 2018, equity investments without readily determinable fair values measured at cost with adjustments for observable changes in price or impairments were $820 million and $697 million, respectively.  
As of September 30, 2018, we had no collateral received under agreements for loaned securities. As of June 30, 2018, collateral received under agreements for loaned securities was $1.8 billion and primarily comprised U.S. government and agency securities.  
Unrealized Losses on Debt Investments  
Debt Investment Maturities  
We use derivative instruments to manage risks related to foreign currencies, equity prices, interest rates, and credit; to enhance investment returns; and to facilitate portfolio diversification. Our objectives for holding derivatives include reducing, eliminating, and efficiently managing the economic impact of these exposures as effectively as possible. Our derivative programs include strategies that both qualify and do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. 
Foreign Currency  
Certain forecasted transactions, assets, and liabilities are exposed to foreign currency risk. We monitor our foreign currency exposures daily to maximize the economic effectiveness of our foreign currency hedge positions. Option and forward contracts are used to hedge a portion of forecasted international revenue and are designated as cash flow hedging instruments. Principal currencies hedged include the euro, Japanese yen, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Australian dollar.  
Foreign currency risks related to certain non-U.S. dollar denominated securities are hedged using foreign exchange forward contracts that are designated as fair value hedging instruments.  
Certain options and forwards not designated as hedging instruments are also used to manage the variability in foreign exchange rates on certain balance sheet amounts and to manage other foreign currency exposures. 
Equity  
Securities held in our equity investments portfolio are subject to market price risk. Market price risk is managed relative to broad-based global and domestic equity indices using certain convertible preferred investments, options, futures, and swap contracts not designated as hedging instruments. In the past, to hedge our price risk, we also used and designated equity derivatives as hedging instruments, including puts, calls, swaps, and forwards. 
Other 
In addition, we use “To Be Announced” forward purchase commitments of mortgage-backed assets to gain exposure to agency mortgage-backed securities. These meet the definition of a derivative instrument in cases where physical delivery of the assets is not taken at the earliest available delivery date. 
Our fixed-income portfolio is diversified and consists primarily of investment-grade securities. We use credit default swap contracts, not designated as hedging instruments, to manage credit exposures relative to broad-based indices and to facilitate portfolio diversification. We use credit default swaps as they are a low-cost method of managing exposure to individual credit risks or groups of credit risks. 
Credit-Risk-Related Contingent Features  
Certain of our counterparty agreements for derivative instruments contain provisions that require our issued and outstanding long-term unsecured debt to maintain an investment grade credit rating and require us to maintain minimum liquidity of $1.0 billion. To the extent we fail to meet these requirements, we will be required to post collateral, similar to the standard convention related to over-the-counter derivatives. As of September 30, 2018, our long-term unsecured debt rating was AAA, and cash investments were in excess of $1.0 billion. As a result, no collateral was required to be posted.  
Fair Values of Derivative Instruments  
Gross derivative assets and liabilities subject to legally enforceable master netting agreements for which we have elected to offset were $388 million and $125 million, respectively, as of September 30, 2018, and $533 million and $207 million, respectively, as of June 30, 2018. 
Fair Value Hedge Gains (Losses)  
Cash Flow Hedge Gains (Losses)  
We estimate that $131 million of net derivative gains included in AOCI as of September 30, 2018 will be reclassified into earnings within the following 12 months. No significant amounts of gains (losses) were reclassified from AOCI into earnings as a result of forecasted transactions that failed to occur for the three months ended September 30, 2018.  
Non-designated Derivative Gains (Losses)  
GitHub Inc. 
On June 4, 2018, we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire GitHub, Inc. in a $7.5 billion stock transaction (inclusive of total cash payments of $1.3 billion in respect of vested GitHub equity awards and an indemnity escrow). The transaction is expected to close by the end of October 2018. The financial results of GitHub will be included in our consolidated financial statements beginning on the date of the acquisition. 
The measurement periods for the valuation of assets acquired and liabilities assumed end as soon as information on the facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition dates becomes available, but do not exceed 12 months. Adjustments in purchase price allocations may require a change in the amounts allocated to goodwill during the periods in which the adjustments are determined. 
Any change in the goodwill amounts resulting from foreign currency translations and purchase accounting adjustments are presented as “Other” in the above table. Also included in “Other” are business dispositions and transfers between segments due to reorganizations, as applicable.  
Intangible assets amortization expense was $556 million and $563 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.  
NOTE 10 — DEBT  
Short-term Debt  
As of September 30, 2018 and June 30, 2018, we had no commercial paper issued or outstanding. Effective August 31, 2018, we terminated our credit facilities, which served as back-up for our commercial paper program.  
Long-term Debt  
As of September 30, 2018, the total carrying value and estimated fair value of our long-term debt, including the current portion, were $76.2 billion and $77.1 billion, respectively. As of June 30, 2018, the total carrying value and estimated fair value of our long-term debt, including the current portion, were $76.2 billion and $77.5 billion, respectively. These estimated fair values are based on Level 2 inputs.  
Euro-denominated debt securities.  
The notes in the table above are senior unsecured obligations and rank equally with our other senior unsecured debt outstanding. Interest on these notes is paid semi-annually, except for the euro-denominated debt securities on which interest is paid annually. As of September 30, 2018 and June 30, 2018, the aggregate debt issuance costs and unamortized discount associated with our long-term debt, including the current portion, were $645 million and $658 million, respectively.  
Effective Tax Rate 
Our effective tax rate for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 was 14% and 18%, respectively. The decrease in our effective tax rate for the current quarter compared to the prior year was primarily due to the reduction of the U.S. federal statutory tax rate as a result of the TCJA.  
Recent Tax Legislation  
Uncertain Tax Positions 
Revenue allocated to remaining performance obligations represents contracted revenue that has not yet been recognized (“contracted not recognized revenue”), which includes unearned revenue and amounts that will be invoiced and recognized as revenue in future periods. Contracted not recognized revenue was $71 billion as of September 30, 2018, of which we expect to recognize approximately 60% of the revenue over the next 12 months and the remainder thereafter.  
We have operating and finance leases for datacenters, corporate offices, research and development facilities, retail stores, and certain equipment. Our leases have remaining lease terms of 1 year to 20 years, some of which include options to extend the leases for up to 5 years, and some of which include options to terminate the leases within 1 year.  
As of September 30, 2018, we have additional operating and finance leases, primarily for datacenters, that have not yet commenced of $2.6 billion and $4.8 billion, respectively. These operating and finance leases will commence between fiscal year 2019 and fiscal year 2022 with lease terms of 1 year to 15 years.  
There were 39 patent infringement cases pending against Microsoft as of September 30, 2018, none of which are material individually or in aggregate.  
Antitrust, Unfair Competition, and Overcharge Class Actions  
The trial of the British Columbia action commenced in May 2016. Following a mediation, the parties agreed to a global settlement of all three Canadian actions, and have submitted the proposed settlement agreement to the courts in all three jurisdictions for approval. A hearing to approve the settlement in British Columbia occurred on September 21, 2018, and in Ontario on October 18, 2018. A hearing in Quebec is scheduled for October 25, 2018. 
Other Antitrust Litigation and Claims  
China State Administration for Industry and Commerce Investigation  
In 2014, Microsoft was informed that China’s State Agency for Market Regulation (“SAMR”) (formerly State Administration for Industry and Commerce) had begun a formal investigation relating to China’s Anti-Monopoly Law, and the SAMR conducted onsite inspections of Microsoft offices in Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou, and Chengdu. SAMR has stated the investigation relates to compatibility, bundle sales, file verification issues related to Windows and Office software, and potentially other issues.  
Product-Related Litigation  
U.S. Cell Phone Litigation  
Microsoft Mobile Oy, a subsidiary of Microsoft, along with other handset manufacturers and network operators, is a defendant in 40 lawsuits filed in the Superior Court for the District of Columbia by individual plaintiffs who allege that radio emissions from cellular handsets caused their brain tumors and other adverse health effects. We assumed responsibility for these claims in our agreement to acquire Nokia’s Devices and Services business and have been substituted for the Nokia defendants. Nine of these cases were filed in 2002 and are consolidated for certain pre-trial proceedings; the remaining cases are stayed. In a separate 2009 decision, the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia held that adverse health effect claims arising from the use of cellular handsets that operate within the U.S. Federal Communications Commission radio frequency emission guidelines (“FCC Guidelines”) are pre-empted by federal law. The plaintiffs allege that their handsets either operated outside the FCC Guidelines or were manufactured before the FCC Guidelines went into effect. The lawsuits also allege an industry-wide conspiracy to manipulate the science and testing around emission guidelines.  
In 2013, the defendants in the consolidated cases moved to exclude the plaintiffs’ expert evidence of general causation on the basis of flawed scientific methodologies. In 2014, the trial court granted in part and denied in part the defendants’ motion to exclude the plaintiffs’ general causation experts. The defendants filed an interlocutory appeal to the District of Columbia Court of Appeals challenging the standard for evaluating expert scientific evidence. In October 2016, the Court of Appeals issued its decision adopting the standard advocated by the defendants and remanding the cases to the trial court for further proceedings under that standard. The plaintiffs have filed supplemental expert evidence, portions of which the defendants have moved to strike. In August 2018, the trial court issued an order striking portions of the plaintiffs’ expert reports.  
Canadian Cell Phone Class Action  
Microsoft Mobile Oy, along with other handset manufacturers and network operators, is a defendant in a 2013 class action lawsuit filed in the Supreme Court of British Columbia by a purported class of Canadians who have used cellular phones for at least 1,600 hours, including a subclass of users with brain tumors, alleging adverse health effects from cellular phone use. Microsoft was served with the complaint in June 2014 and has been substituted for the Nokia defendants. The litigation has been dormant for more than three years.  
Employment-Related Litigation 
Moussouris v. Microsoft 
Current and former female Microsoft employees in certain engineering and information technology roles brought this class action in federal court in Seattle in 2015, alleging systemic gender discrimination in pay and promotions. The plaintiffs moved to certify the class in October 2017. Microsoft filed an opposition in January 2018, attaching an expert report showing no statistically significant disparity in pay and promotions between similarly situated men and women. In June 2018, the court denied the plaintiffs’ motion for class certification. Plaintiffs sought an interlocutory appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, which was granted in September 2018. 
Other Contingencies  
Share Repurchases  
On September 20, 2016, our Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program authorizing up to $40.0 billion in share repurchases. This share repurchase program commenced on December 22, 2016, has no expiration date, and may be suspended or discontinued at any time without notice. As of September 30, 2018, $25.6 billion remained of this $40.0 billion share repurchase program. 
The above table excludes shares repurchased to settle employee tax withholding related to the vesting of stock awards. All repurchases were made using cash resources. 
Dividends  
The dividend declared on September 18, 2018 was included in other current liabilities as of September 30, 2018.  
Our reportable segments are described below.  
Productivity and Business Processes  
Office Commercial, including Microsoft Office 365 subscriptions and Office licensed on-premises, comprising Office, Exchange, SharePoint, Skype for Business, and Microsoft Teams, and related Client Access Licenses (“CALs”).  
Office Consumer, including Office 365 subscriptions and Office licensed on-premises, and Office Consumer Services, including Skype, Outlook.com, and OneDrive.  
LinkedIn, including Talent Solutions, Marketing Solutions, and Premium Subscriptions.  
Microsoft Dynamics business solutions, including Dynamics ERP on-premises, Dynamics CRM on-premises, and Dynamics 365, a set of cloud-based applications across ERP and CRM.  
Intelligent Cloud  
Server products and cloud services, including Microsoft SQL Server, Windows Server, Visual Studio, System Center, and related CALs, and Microsoft Azure.  
More Personal Computing  
Windows, including Windows original equipment manufacturer (“OEM”) licensing and other non-volume licensing of the Windows operating system; Windows Commercial, comprising volume licensing of the Windows operating system, Windows cloud services, and other Windows commercial offerings; patent licensing; Windows Internet of Things (“IoT”); and MSN advertising.  
Devices, including Microsoft Surface, PC accessories, and other intelligent devices.  
Gaming, including Xbox hardware and Xbox software and services, comprising Xbox Live transactions, subscriptions, and advertising (“Xbox Live”), video games, and third-party video game royalties.  
Includes billings to OEMs and certain multinational organizations because of the nature of these businesses and the impracticability of determining the geographic source of the revenue.  
Our commercial cloud revenue, which includes Office 365 commercial, Azure, LinkedIn, Dynamics 365, and other cloud properties, was $8.5 billion and $5.8 billion for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. These amounts are primarily included in Office products and cloud services, Server products and cloud services, and LinkedIn in the table above. 
To the Stockholders and the Board of Directors of Microsoft Corporation  
Results of Review of Interim Financial Information 
Basis for Review Results 
This interim financial information is the responsibility of the Company's management. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the PCAOB and the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
We conducted our reviews in accordance with standards of the PCAOB. A review of interim financial information consists principally of applying analytical procedures and making inquiries of persons responsible for financial and accounting matters. It is substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB, the objective of which is the expression of an opinion regarding the financial statements taken as a whole. Accordingly, we do not express such an opinion. 
Item 1, 1A 
Refer to Note 14 – Contingencies of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q) for information regarding legal proceedings in which we are involved.  
Competition among platform-based ecosystems  
An important element of our business model has been to create platform-based ecosystems on which many participants can build diverse solutions. A well-established ecosystem creates beneficial network effects among users, application developers, and the platform provider that can accelerate growth. Establishing significant scale in the marketplace is necessary to achieve and maintain attractive margins. We face significant competition from firms that provide competing platforms.  
A competing vertically-integrated model, in which a single firm controls the software and hardware elements of a product and related services, has succeeded with some consumer products such as personal computers, tablets, phones, gaming consoles, and wearables. Competitors pursuing this model also earn revenue from services integrated with the hardware and software platform, including applications and content sold through their integrated marketplaces. They may also be able to claim security and performance benefits from their vertically integrated offer. We also offer some vertically-integrated hardware and software products and services. To the extent we shift a portion of our business to a vertically integrated model we increase our cost of revenue and reduce our operating margins.  
We derive substantial revenue from licenses of Windows operating systems on personal computers. We face significant competition from competing platforms developed for new devices and form factors such as smartphones and tablet computers. These devices compete on multiple bases including price and the perceived utility of the device and its platform. Users are increasingly turning to these devices to perform functions that in the past were performed by personal computers. Even if many users view these devices as complementary to a personal computer, the prevalence of these devices may make it more difficult to attract application developers to our PC operating system platforms. Competing with operating systems licensed at low or no cost may decrease our PC operating system margins. Popular products or services offered on competing platforms could increase their competitive strength. In addition, some of our devices compete with products made by our original equipment manufacturer (“OEM”) partners, which may affect their commitment to our platform.  
Competing platforms have content and application marketplaces with scale and significant installed bases. The variety and utility of content and applications available on a platform are important to device purchasing decisions. Users sometimes incur costs to move data and buy new content and applications when switching platforms. To compete, we must successfully enlist developers to write applications for our platform and ensure that these applications have high quality, security, customer appeal, and value. Efforts to compete with competitors’ content and application marketplaces may increase our cost of revenue and lower our operating margins.  
Item 1A 
Business model competition  
Companies compete with us based on a growing variety of business models.  
Other competitors develop and offer free applications, online services and content, and make money by selling third-party advertising. Advertising revenue funds development of products and services these competitors provide to users at no or little cost, competing directly with our revenue-generating products.  
Some companies compete with us using an open source business model by modifying and then distributing open source software at nominal cost to end-users, and earning revenue on advertising or complementary services and products. These firms do not bear the full costs of research and development for the software. Some open source software vendors develop software that mimics the features and functionality of our products.  
Our increasing focus on cloud-based services presents execution and competitive risks. A growing part of our business involves cloud-based services available across the spectrum of computing devices. Our strategic vision is to compete and grow by building best-in-class platforms and productivity services for an intelligent cloud and an intelligent edge infused with artificial intelligence (“AI”). At the same time, our competitors are rapidly developing and deploying cloud-based services for consumers and business customers. Pricing and delivery models are evolving. Devices and form factors influence how users access services in the cloud and sometimes the user’s choice of which suite of cloud-based services to use. We are devoting significant resources to develop and deploy our cloud-based strategies. The Windows ecosystem must continue to evolve with this changing environment. We are undertaking cultural and organizational changes to drive accountability and eliminate obstacles to innovation. Our intelligent cloud and intelligent edge worldview is connected with the growth of the internet of things (“IoT”). Our success in the IoT will depend on the level of adoption of our offerings such as Microsoft Azure, Azure Stack, Azure IoT Edge, and Azure Sphere. We may not establish market share sufficient to achieve scale necessary to achieve our business objectives. 
Continuing to bring to market compelling cloud-based experiences that generate increasing traffic and market share.  
Maintaining the utility, compatibility, and performance of our cloud-based services on the growing array of computing devices, including PCs, smartphones, tablets, gaming consoles, and other devices, as well as sensors and other endpoints.  
Continuing to enhance the attractiveness of our cloud platforms to third-party developers.  
Ensuring our cloud-based services meet the reliability expectations of our customers and maintain the security of their data.  
Making our suite of cloud-based services platform-agnostic, available on a wide range of devices and ecosystems, including those of our competitors.  
Item 1A 
We make significant investments in new products and services that may not achieve expected returns. We will continue to make significant investments in research, development, and marketing for existing products, services, and technologies, including the Windows operating system, Microsoft 365, Office, Bing, Microsoft SQL Server, Windows Server, Microsoft Stores, Azure, Office 365, Xbox Live, Mixer, LinkedIn, and other cloud-based offerings. We also invest in the development and acquisition of a variety of hardware for productivity, communication, and entertainment including PCs, tablets, gaming devices, and HoloLens. Investments in new technology are speculative. Commercial success depends on many factors, including innovativeness, developer support, and effective distribution and marketing. If customers do not perceive our latest offerings as providing significant new functionality or other value, they may reduce their purchases of new software and hardware products or upgrades, unfavorably affecting revenue. We may not achieve significant revenue from new product, service, and distribution channel investments for several years, if at all. New products and services may not be profitable, and even if they are profitable, operating margins for some new products and businesses will not be as high as the margins we have experienced historically. We may not get engagement in certain features, like Microsoft Stores, Microsoft Edge, and Bing, that drive post-license monetization opportunities. Our data handling practices across our products and services will continue to be under scrutiny and perceptions of mismanagement, driven by regulatory activity or negative public reaction to our practices or product experiences, which could negatively impact product and feature adoption, product design, and product quality.  
Item 1A 
Security of our information technology  
Threats to IT security can take a variety of forms. Individual and groups of hackers and sophisticated organizations, including state-sponsored organizations or nation-states, continuously undertake attacks that pose threats to our customers and our IT. These actors may use a wide variety of methods, which may include developing and deploying malicious software or exploiting vulnerabilities in hardware, software, or other infrastructure in order to attack our products and services or gain access to our networks and datacenters, using social engineering techniques to induce our employees, users, partners, or customers to disclose passwords or other sensitive information or take other actions to gain access to our data or our users’ or customers’ data, or acting in a coordinated manner to launch distributed denial of service or other coordinated attacks. Inadequate account security practices may also result in unauthorized access to confidential data. For example, system administrators may fail to timely remove employee account access when no longer appropriate. Employees or third parties may intentionally compromise our or our users’ security or systems, or reveal confidential information.  
Item 1A 
Security of our products, services, devices, and customers’ data  
The security of our products and services is important in our customers’ decisions to purchase or use our products or services. Security threats are a significant challenge to companies like us whose business is providing technology products and services to others. Threats to our own IT infrastructure can also affect our customers. Customers using our cloud-based services rely on the security of our infrastructure, including hardware and other elements provided by third parties, to ensure the reliability of our services and the protection of their data. Adversaries tend to focus their efforts on the most popular operating systems, programs, and services, including many of ours, and we expect that to continue. Adversaries that acquire user account information at other companies can use that information to compromise our users’ accounts where accounts share the same attributes like passwords. Inadequate account security practices may also result in unauthorized access. We are also increasingly incorporating open source software into our products. There may be vulnerabilities in open source software that may make our products susceptible to cyberattacks. 
To defend against security threats to our internal IT systems, our cloud-based services, and our customers’ systems, we must continuously engineer more secure products and services, enhance security and reliability features, improve the deployment of software updates to address security vulnerabilities in our own products as well as those provided by others, develop mitigation technologies that help to secure customers from attacks even when software updates are not deployed, maintain the digital security infrastructure that protects the integrity of our network, products, and services, and provide customers security tools such as firewalls and anti-virus software and information about the need to deploy security measures and the impact of doing so.  
Item 1A 
We may not be able to protect information in our products and services from use by others. LinkedIn and other Microsoft products and services contain valuable information and content protected by contractual restrictions or technical measures. In certain cases, we have made commitments to our members and users to limit access to or use of this information. Changes in the law or interpretations of the law may weaken our ability to prevent third parties from scraping or gathering information or content through use of bots or other measures and using it for their own benefit, thus diminishing the value of our products and services. 
We may have excessive outages, data losses, and disruptions of our online services if we fail to maintain an adequate operations infrastructure. Our increasing user traffic, growth in services, and the complexity of our products and services demand more computing power. We spend substantial amounts to build, purchase, or lease datacenters and equipment and to upgrade our technology and network infrastructure to handle more traffic on our websites and in our datacenters. These demands continue to increase as we introduce new products and services and support the growth of existing services such as Bing, Exchange Online, Azure, Microsoft Account services, Office 365, OneDrive, SharePoint Online, Skype, Xbox Live, Outlook.com, and Microsoft Stores. We are rapidly growing our business of providing a platform and back-end hosting for services provided by third parties to their end users. Maintaining, securing, and expanding this infrastructure is expensive and complex. It requires that we maintain an Internet connectivity infrastructure that is robust and reliable within competitive and regulatory constraints that continue to evolve. Inefficiencies or operational failures, including temporary or permanent loss of customer data or insufficient Internet connectivity, could diminish the quality of our products, services, and user experience resulting in contractual liability, claims by customers and other third parties, regulatory actions, damage to our reputation, and loss of current and potential users, subscribers, and advertisers, each of which may harm our operating results and financial condition.  
Government litigation and regulatory activity relating to competition rules may limit how we design and market our products. As a leading global software and device maker, government agencies closely scrutinize us under U.S. and foreign competition laws. An increasing number of governments are actively enforcing competition laws and regulations and this includes increased scrutiny in potentially large markets such as the European Union (“EU”), the U.S., and China. Some jurisdictions also allow competitors or consumers to assert claims of anti-competitive conduct. U.S. federal and state antitrust authorities have previously brought enforcement actions and continue to scrutinize our business.  
Item 1A 
Our ability to realize anticipated Windows 10 post-sale monetization opportunities may be limited.  
Our global operations subject us to potential liability under anti-corruption, trade protection, and other laws and regulations. The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-corruption laws and regulations (“Anti-Corruption Laws”) prohibit corrupt payments by our employees, vendors, or agents. From time to time, we receive inquiries from authorities in the U.S. and elsewhere and reports from employees and others about our business activities outside the U.S. and our compliance with Anti-Corruption Laws. Specifically, we have been cooperating with authorities in the U.S. in connection with reports concerning our compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act in various countries. Most countries in which we operate also have competition laws that prohibit competitors from colluding or otherwise attempting to reduce competition between themselves. While we devote substantial resources to our global compliance programs and have implemented policies, training, and internal controls designed to reduce the risk of corrupt payments and collusive activity, our employees, vendors, or agents may violate our policies. Our failure to comply with Anti-Corruption Laws or competition laws could result in significant fines and penalties, criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business, and damage to our reputation. Operations outside the U.S. may be affected by changes in trade protection laws, policies, and measures, sanctions, and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment. We may be subject to legal liability and reputational damage if we sell goods or services in violation of U.S. trade sanctions on countries such as Iran, North Korea, Cuba, Sudan, and Syria.  
Item 1A 
Laws and regulations relating to the handling of personal data may impede the adoption of our services or result in increased costs, legal claims, fines against us, or reputational damage. The growth of our Internet- and cloud-based services internationally relies increasingly on the movement of data across national boundaries. Legal requirements relating to the collection, storage, handling, and transfer of personal data continue to evolve. For example, the EU and the U.S. formally entered into a new framework in July 2016 that provides a mechanism for companies to transfer data from EU member states to the U.S. This framework, called the Privacy Shield, is intended to address shortcomings identified by the European Court of Justice in a predecessor mechanism. The Privacy Shield and other mechanisms are currently subject to challenges in European courts, which may lead to uncertainty about the legal basis for data transfers across the Atlantic. The Privacy Shield and other potential rules on the flow of data across borders could increase the cost and complexity of delivering our products and services in some markets. In May 2018, a new EU law governing data practices and privacy, the General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”), became effective. The law, which applies to all of our activities conducted from an establishment in the EU or related to products and services offered in the EU, imposes a range of new compliance obligations regarding the handling of personal data. Engineering efforts to build new capabilities to facilitate compliance with the law have entailed substantial expense and the diversion of engineering resources from other projects and may continue to do so. We might experience reduced demand for our offerings if we are unable to engineer products that meet our legal duties or help our customers meet their obligations under the GDPR or other data regulations, or if the changes we implement to comply with the GDPR make our offerings less attractive. The GDPR imposes significant new obligations and compliance with these obligations depends in part on how particular regulators apply and interpret them. If we fail to comply with the GDPR, or if regulators assert we have failed to comply with the GDPR, it may lead to regulatory enforcement actions, which can result in monetary penalties of up to 4% of worldwide revenue, private lawsuits, or reputational damage. 
Item 1A 
Item 1A 
Our product distribution system relies on an extensive partner and retail network. OEMs building devices that run our software have also been a significant means of distribution. The impact of economic conditions on our partners, such as the bankruptcy of a major distributor, OEM, or retailer, could cause sales channel disruption.  
Item 1A 
Changes in our sales organization may impact revenues. In July 2017, we announced plans to reorganize our global sales organization to help enable customers’ digital transformation, add greater technical ability to our sales force, and create pooled resources that can be used across countries and industries. The reorganization is the most significant change in our global sales organization in our history, involving employees changing roles, adding additional talent, realigning teams, and onboarding new partners. Successfully executing these changes will be a significant factor in enabling future revenue growth. As we continue to navigate through this transition, sales, profitability, and cash flow could be adversely impacted. 
The introduction of new features, products, services, or terms of service that customers, users, or partners do not like. 
Public scrutiny of our decisions regarding user privacy, data practices, or content.  
Data security breaches, compliance failures, or actions of partners or individual employees.  
