See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
Basis of Presentation
We have prepared the accompanying financial data as of October 26, 2019 and for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2019, without audit, pursuant to the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (“GAAP”) have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations. The July 27, 2019 Consolidated Balance Sheet was derived from audited financial statements, but does not include all disclosures required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. However, we believe that the disclosures are adequate to make the information presented not misleading. These Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 27, 2019.
Our consolidated financial statements include our accounts and entities consolidated under the variable interest and voting models. The noncontrolling interests attributed to these investments, if any, are presented as a separate component from our equity in the equity section of the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The share of earnings attributable to the noncontrolling interests are not presented separately in the Consolidated Statements of Operations as these amounts are not material for any of the fiscal periods presented.
Certain reclassifications have been made to the amounts in prior periods in order to conform to the current period’s presentation. We have evaluated subsequent events through the date that the financial statements were issued.
As a lessor, we determine if an arrangement is a lease at inception. We provide leasing arrangements for our equipment to certain qualified customers. Our lease portfolio primarily consists of sales-type leases. We allocate the consideration in a bundled contract with our customers based on relative standalone selling prices of our lease and non-lease components. The residual value on our leased equipment is determined at the inception of the lease based on an analysis of estimates of the value of equipment, market factors and historical customer behavior. Residual value estimates are reviewed on a periodic basis and other-than-temporary declines are expensed in the period they occur. Our leases generally provide an end-of-term option for the customer to extend the lease under mutually-agreed terms, return the leased equipment, or purchase the equipment for either the then-market value of the equipment or a pre-determined purchase price. If a customer chooses to terminate their lease prior to the original end of term date, the customer is required to pay all remaining lease payments in full. 
Credit Losses of Financial Instruments  In June 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update that requires measurement and recognition of expected credit losses for financial assets held based on historical experience, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts that affect the collectibility of the reported amount. The accounting standard update will be effective for us beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2021 on a modified retrospective basis. We are currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Revenue 
We enter into contracts with customers that can include various combinations of products and services which are generally distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations. As a result, our contracts may contain multiple performance obligations. We determine whether arrangements are distinct based on whether the customer can benefit from the product or service on its own or together with other resources that are readily available and whether our commitment to transfer the product or service to the customer is separately identifiable from other obligations in the contract. We classify our hardware, perpetual software licenses, and software-as-a-service (SaaS) as distinct performance obligations. Term software licenses represent multiple obligations, which include software licenses and software maintenance. In transactions where we deliver hardware or software, we are typically the principal and we record revenue and costs of goods sold on a gross basis. We refer to our term software licenses, security software licenses, SaaS, and associated service arrangements as subscription offers.
We recognize revenue upon transfer of control of promised goods or services in a contract with a customer in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for those products or services. Transfer of control occurs once the customer has the contractual right to use the product, generally upon shipment or once title and risk of loss has transferred to the customer. Transfer of control can also occur over time for software maintenance and services as the customer receives the benefit over the contract term. Our hardware and perpetual software licenses are distinct performance obligations where revenue is recognized upfront upon transfer of control. Term software licenses include multiple performance obligations where the term licenses are recognized upfront upon transfer of control, with the associated software maintenance revenue recognized ratably over the contract term as services and software updates are provided. SaaS arrangements do not include the right for the customer to take possession of the software during the term, and therefore have one distinct performance obligation which is satisfied over time with revenue recognized ratably over the contract term as the customer consumes the services. On our product sales, we record consideration from shipping and handling on a gross basis within net product sales. We record our revenue net of any associated sales taxes.
Significant Judgments 
Revenue is allocated among these performance obligations in a manner that reflects the consideration that we expect to be entitled to for the promised goods or services based on standalone selling prices (SSP). SSP is estimated for each distinct performance obligation and judgment may be required in their determination. The best evidence of SSP is the observable price of a product or service when we sell the goods separately in similar circumstances and to similar customers. In instances where SSP is not directly observable, we determine SSP using information that may include market conditions and other observable inputs. 
We apply judgment in determining the transaction price as we may be required to estimate variable consideration when determining the amount of revenue to recognize. Variable consideration includes contractual potential penalties and various rebate, cooperative marketing and other incentive programs that we offer to our distributors, partners and customers. When determining the amount of revenue to recognize, we estimate the expected usage of these programs, applying the expected value or most likely estimate and update the estimate at each reporting period as actual utilization becomes available. We also consider the customers' right of return in determining the transaction price, where applicable.
We assess certain software licenses, such as for security software, that contain critical updates or upgrades which customers can download throughout the contract term. Without these updates or upgrades, the functionality of the software would diminish over a relatively short time period. These updates or upgrades provide the customer the full functionality of the purchased security software licenses and are required to maintain the security license's utility as the risks and threats in the environment are rapidly changing. In these circumstances, the revenue from these software arrangements is recognized as a single performance obligation satisfied over the contract term.
Amounts may not sum due to rounding.
Applications consists of offerings that utilize the core networking and data center platforms to provide their functions. The products consist primarily of software offerings, including software licenses and SaaS, as well as hardware. Our perpetual software and hardware in this category are distinct performance obligations where revenue is recognized upfront upon transfer of control. Term software licenses are multiple performance obligations where the term license is recognized upfront upon transfer of control with the associated software maintenance revenue recognized ratably over the contract term. SaaS arrangements in this category have one distinct performance obligation which is satisfied over time with revenue recognized ratably over the contract term. 
Security primarily includes our network security, cloud and email security, identity and access management, advanced threat protection, and unified threat management products. These products consist of both hardware and software offerings, including software licenses and SaaS. Updates and upgrades for the term software licenses are critical for our software to perform its intended commercial purpose because of the continuous need for our software to secure our customers' network environments against frequent threats. Therefore, security software licenses are generally represented by a single distinct performance obligation with revenue recognized ratably over the contract term. Our hardware and perpetual software in this category are distinct performance obligations where revenue is recognized upfront upon transfer of control. SaaS arrangements in this category have one distinct performance obligation which is satisfied over time with revenue recognized ratably over the contract term. 
Other Products primarily includes our cloud and system management products. These products include both hardware and software licenses. Our offerings in this category are distinct performance obligations where revenue is recognized upfront upon transfer of control. 
In addition to our product offerings, we provide a broad range of service and support options for our customers, including technical support services and advanced services. Technical support services represent the majority of these offerings which are distinct performance obligations that are satisfied over time with revenue recognized ratably over the contract term. Advanced services are distinct performance obligations that are satisfied over time with revenue recognized as services are delivered. 
The sales arrangements as discussed above are typically made pursuant to customer purchase orders based on master purchase or partner agreements. Cash is received based on our standard payment terms which is typically 30 days. We provide financing arrangements to customers for all of our hardware, software and service offerings. Refer to Note 9 for additional information. For these arrangements, cash is typically received over time.
Contract assets consist of unbilled receivables and are recorded when revenue is recognized in advance of scheduled billings to our customers. These amounts are primarily related to software and service arrangements where transfer of control has occurred but we have not yet invoiced. As of October 26, 2019 and July 27, 2019, our contract assets for these unbilled receivables were $954 million and $860 million, respectively, and were included in other current assets and other assets.
Contract liabilities consist of deferred revenue. Deferred revenue was $18.6 billion as of October 26, 2019 compared to $18.5 billion as of July 27, 2019. We recognized approximately $3.7 billion of revenue during the first quarter of fiscal 2020, that was included in the deferred revenue balance at July 27, 2019. 
Remaining Performance Obligations (RPO) are comprised of deferred revenue plus unbilled contract revenue. As of October 26, 2019, the aggregate amount of RPO was $24.9 billion, comprised of $18.6 billion of deferred revenue and $6.3 billion of unbilled contract revenue. We expect approximately 56% of this amount to be recognized as revenue over the next year. As of July 27, 2019, the aggregate amount of RPO was $25.3 billion, comprised of $18.5 billion of deferred revenue and $6.8 billion of unbilled contract revenue. Unbilled contract revenue represents noncancelable contracts for which we have not invoiced, have an obligation to perform, and revenue has not yet been recognized in the financial statements. 
We capitalize direct and incremental costs incurred to acquire contracts, primarily sales commissions, for which the associated revenue is expected to be recognized in future periods. We incur these costs in connection with both initial contracts and renewals. These costs are initially deferred and typically amortized over the term of the customer contract which corresponds to the period of benefit. Deferred sales commissions were $707 million and $750 million as of October 26, 2019 and July 27, 2019, respectively, and were included in other current assets and other assets. The amortization expense associated with these costs was $116 million and $112 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2019, respectively, and was included in sales and marketing expenses. 
Acquisitions and Divestitures
The goodwill generated from acquisitions completed during the first quarter of fiscal 2020 is primarily related to expected synergies. The goodwill is generally not deductible for income tax purposes.
The Consolidated Financial Statements include the operating results of each acquisition from the date of acquisition. Pro forma results of operations and the revenue and net income subsequent to the acquisition date for the acquisitions completed during the first quarter of fiscal 2020 have not been presented because the effects of the acquisitions, individually and in the aggregate, were not material to our financial results. 
Pending Acquisition of Acacia Communications On July 9, 2019, we announced our intent to acquire Acacia Communications, Inc. (“Acacia”), a public fabless semiconductor company that develops, manufactures and sells high-speed coherent optical interconnect products that are designed to transform communications networks through improvements in performance, capacity and cost.
Under the terms of the agreement, we have agreed to pay total consideration of approximately $2.6 billion, net of cash and marketable securities, to acquire Acacia. The acquisition is expected to close during the second half of fiscal 2020, subject to customary closing conditions and regulatory approvals. Upon close of the acquisition, revenue from Acacia will be included in our Infrastructure Platforms product category.
Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Assets 
“Other” in the table above primarily consists of foreign currency translation as well as immaterial purchase accounting adjustments.
Purchased intangible assets include intangible assets acquired through acquisitions as well as through direct purchases or licenses. 
We initiated a restructuring plan during fiscal 2018 (the “Fiscal 2018 Plan”) in order to realign the organization and enable further investment in key priority areas with estimated pretax charges of approximately $600 million. These aggregate pretax charges are primarily cash-based and consist of employee severance and other one-time termination benefits, and other associated costs. In connection with the Fiscal 2018 Plan, we have incurred charges of $184 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2020, and have incurred cumulative charges of $614 million. We do not expect to incur significant charges under the Fiscal 2018 Plan in the future and expect this plan to be substantially completed in the first half of fiscal 2020.
Balance Sheet Details 
We lease real estate, IT and other equipment and vehicles. We also have arrangements with certain suppliers and contract manufacturers which includes the leasing of dedicated space and equipment costs. Our leases have the option to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise that option. 
Certain of our lease agreements contain variable lease payments. Our variable lease payments can fluctuate depending on the level of activity or the cost of certain services where we have elected to combine lease and non-lease components. While these payments are not included as part of our lease liabilities, they are recognized as variable lease expense in the period they are incurred.
As of October 26, 2019, our operating lease right-of-use assets were $1.1 billion and were recorded in other assets, and our operating lease liabilities were $1.1 billion, of which $367 million was included in other current liabilities and $780 million was included in other long-term liabilities. 
Our leases primarily represent sales-type leases with terms of four years on average. We provide leasing of our equipment and complementary third-party products primarily through our channel partners and distributors, for which the income arising from these leases is recognized through interest income. Interest income for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 was $26 million and was included in interest income in the Consolidated Statement of Operations. The net investment of our lease receivables is measured at the commencement date as the gross lease receivable, residual value less unearned income and allowance for credit loss. For additional information, see Note 9. 
Actual cash collections may differ from the contractual maturities due to early customer buyouts, refinancings, or defaults.
Our lease income for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 was $44 million and was included in product revenue in the Consolidated Statement of Operations.
Financing receivables primarily consist of lease receivables, loan receivables, and financed service contracts. Lease receivables represent sales-type leases resulting from the sale of Cisco’s and complementary third-party products and are typically collateralized by a security interest in the underlying assets. Lease receivables consist of arrangements with terms of four years on average. Loan receivables represent financing arrangements related to the sale of our hardware, software, and services, which may include additional funding for other costs associated with network installation and integration of our products and services. Loan receivables have terms of three years on average. Financed service contracts include financing receivables related to technical support and advanced services. Revenue related to the technical support services is typically deferred and included in deferred service revenue and is recognized ratably over the period during which the related services are to be performed, which typically ranges from one to three years. 
Our internal credit risk ratings of 1 through 4 correspond to investment-grade ratings, while credit risk ratings of 5 and 6 correspond to non-investment grade ratings. Credit risk ratings of 7 and higher correspond to substandard ratings. 
Past due financing receivables are those that are 31 days or more past due according to their contractual payment terms. The data in the preceding tables is presented by contract, and the aging classification of each contract is based on the oldest outstanding receivable, and therefore past due amounts also include unbilled and current receivables within the same contract. 
As of October 26, 2019, we had financing receivables of $188 million, net of unbilled or current receivables, that were greater than 120 days plus past due but remained on accrual status as they are well secured and in the process of collection. Such balance was $215 million as of July 27, 2019.
We assess the allowance for credit loss related to financing receivables on either an individual or a collective basis. We consider various factors in evaluating lease and loan receivables and the earned portion of financed service contracts for possible impairment on an individual basis. These factors include our historical experience, credit quality and age of the receivable balances, and economic conditions that may affect a customer’s ability to pay. When the evaluation indicates that it is probable that all amounts due pursuant to the contractual terms of the financing agreement, including scheduled interest payments, are unable to be collected, the financing receivable is considered impaired. All such outstanding amounts, including any accrued interest, will be assessed and fully reserved at the customer level. Our internal credit risk ratings are categorized as 1 through 10, with the lowest credit risk rating representing the highest quality financing receivables. 
Typically, we also consider receivables with a risk rating of 8 or higher to be impaired and will include them in the individual assessment for allowance. These balances, as of October 26, 2019 and July 27, 2019, are presented under “(b) Credit Quality of Financing Receivables” above.
Available-for-Sale Debt Investments and Equity Investments
For available-for-sale debt investments that were in an unrealized loss position as of October 26, 2019, we have determined that no other-than-temporary impairments were required to be recognized.
Actual maturities may differ from the contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to call or prepay certain obligations. 
We periodically engage in securities lending activities with certain of our available-for-sale debt investments. These transactions are accounted for as a secured lending of the securities, and the securities are typically loaned only on an overnight basis. The average daily balance of securities lending was $21 million and $0.5 billion for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and 2019, respectively. We require collateral equal to at least 102% of the fair market value of the loaned security and that the collateral be in the form of cash or liquid, high-quality assets. We engage in these secured lending transactions only with highly creditworthy counterparties, and the associated portfolio custodian has agreed to indemnify us against collateral losses. We did not experience any losses in connection with the secured lending of securities during the periods presented. As of October 26, 2019 and July 27, 2019, we had no outstanding securities lending transactions. 
In the ordinary course of business, we have investments in privately held companies and provide financing to certain customers. These privately held companies and customers are evaluated for consolidation under the variable interest or voting interest entity models. We evaluate on an ongoing basis our investments in these privately held companies and our customer financings, and have determined that as of October 26, 2019, except as disclosed herein, there were no significant variable interest or voting interest entities required to be consolidated in our Consolidated Financial Statements.
As of October 26, 2019, the carrying value of investments in privately held companies was $1.2 billion. $659 million of such investments are considered to be in variable interest entities which are unconsolidated. We have total funding commitments of $311 million related to these privately held investments, some of which are based on the achievement of certain agreed-upon milestones, and some of which are required to be funded on demand. The carrying value of these investments and the additional funding commitments collectively represent our maximum exposure related to these privately held investments.
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities required or permitted to be either recorded or disclosed at fair value, we consider the principal or most advantageous market in which we would transact, and we also consider assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability.
The accounting guidance for fair value measurement requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. The standard establishes a fair value hierarchy based on the level of 
Level 1 applies to assets or liabilities for which there are quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 applies to assets or liabilities for which there are inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets; quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in markets with insufficient volume or infrequent transactions (less active markets); or model-derived valuations in which significant inputs are observable or can be derived principally from, or corroborated by, observable market data.
Level 3 applies to assets or liabilities for which there are unobservable inputs to the valuation methodology that are significant to the measurement of the fair value of the assets or liabilities.
These assets were measured at fair value due to events or circumstances we identified as having significant impact on their fair value during the respective periods. The carrying value of our non-marketable equity securities recorded to fair value on a non-recurring basis is adjusted for observable transactions for identical or similar investments of the same issuer or impairment. These securities are classified as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy because we estimate the value based on valuation methods using the observable transaction price at the transaction date and other unobservable inputs such as volatility, rights, and obligations of the securities we hold. 
The fair value of short-term loan receivables and financed service contracts approximates their carrying value due to their short duration. The aggregate carrying value of long-term loan receivables and financed service contracts as of October 26, 2019 and July 27, 2019 was $3.6 billion and $3.7 billion, respectively. The estimated fair value of long-term loan receivables and financed service contracts approximates their carrying value. We use significant unobservable inputs in determining discounted cash flows to estimate the fair value of our long-term loan receivables and financed service contracts, and therefore they are categorized as Level 3.
As of October 26, 2019, the estimated fair value of our short-term debt approximates its carrying value due to the short maturities. As of October 26, 2019, the fair value of our senior notes and other long-term debt was $20.3 billion with a carrying amount of $18.5 billion. This compares to a fair value of $22.1 billion and a carrying amount of $20.5 billion as of July 27, 2019. The fair value of the senior notes and other long-term debt was determined based on observable market prices in a less active market and was categorized as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. 
We have a short-term debt financing program of up to $10.0 billion through the issuance of commercial paper notes. We use the proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper notes for general corporate purposes. 
The effective rates for the short- and long-term debt include the interest on the notes, the accretion of the discount, the issuance costs, and, if applicable, adjustments related to hedging.
We entered into interest rate swaps in prior periods with an aggregate notional amount of $4.5 billion designated as fair value hedges of certain of our fixed-rate senior notes. These swaps convert the fixed interest rates of the fixed-rate notes to floating interest rates based on the London InterBank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”). The gains and losses related to changes in the fair value of the interest rate swaps substantially offset changes in the fair value of the hedged portion of the underlying debt that are attributable to the changes in market interest rates. For additional information, see Note 13.
Interest is payable semiannually on each class of the senior fixed-rate notes and payable quarterly on the floating-rate notes. Each of the senior fixed-rate notes is redeemable by us at any time, subject to a make-whole premium. The senior notes rank at par with the commercial paper notes that may be issued in the future pursuant to our short-term debt financing program, as discussed above under “(a) Short-Term Debt.” As of October 26, 2019, we were in compliance with all debt covenants.
This credit agreement requires that we comply with certain covenants, including that we maintain an interest coverage ratio as defined in the agreement. As of October 26, 2019, we were in compliance with the required interest coverage ratio and the other covenants, and we had not borrowed any funds under this credit facility.
We use derivative instruments primarily to manage exposures to foreign currency exchange rate, interest rate, and equity price risks. Our primary objective in holding derivatives is to reduce the volatility of earnings and cash flows associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, and equity prices. Our derivatives expose us to credit risk to the extent that the counterparties may be unable to meet the terms of the agreement. We do, however, seek to mitigate such risks by limiting our counterparties to major financial institutions. In addition, the potential risk of loss with any one counterparty resulting from this type of credit risk is monitored. Management does not expect material losses as a result of defaults by counterparties.
See Note 17 for the effects of our cash flow hedging instruments on other comprehensive income (OCI) and the Consolidated Statements of Operations. As of October 26, 2019, we estimate that approximately $3 million of net derivative losses related to our cash flow hedges included in accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) will be reclassified into earnings within the next 12 months when the underlying hedged item impacts earnings.
We present our derivative instruments at gross fair values in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. However, our master netting and other similar arrangements with the respective counterparties allow for net settlement under certain conditions, which are designed to reduce credit risk by permitting net settlement with the same counterparty. As of October 26, 2019 and July 27, 2019, the potential effects of these rights of set-off associated with the derivative contracts would be a reduction to both derivative assets and derivative liabilities of $7 million and $13 million, respectively.
To further limit credit risk, we also enter into collateral security arrangements related to certain derivative instruments whereby cash is posted as collateral between the counterparties based on the fair market value of the derivative instrument. Under these collateral security arrangements, the net cash collateral received as of October 26, 2019 and July 27, 2019 was $94 million and $76 million, respectively. Including the effects of collateral, this results in a net derivative asset of $1 million and a net derivative liability of $2 million as of October 26, 2019 and July 27, 2019, respectively.
We conduct business globally in numerous currencies. Therefore, we are exposed to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. To limit the exposure related to foreign currency changes, we enter into foreign currency contracts. We do not enter into such contracts for speculative purposes.
We hedge forecasted foreign currency transactions related to certain revenues, operating expenses and service cost of sales with currency options and forward contracts. These currency options and forward contracts, designated as cash flow hedges, generally have maturities of less than 24 months. The derivative instrument’s gain or loss is initially reported as a component of AOCI and subsequently reclassified into earnings when the hedged exposure affects earnings. During the periods presented, we did not discontinue any cash flow hedges for which it was probable that a forecasted transaction would not occur.
We enter into foreign exchange forward and option contracts to reduce the short-term effects of foreign currency fluctuations on assets and liabilities such as foreign currency receivables, including long-term customer financings, investments, and payables. These derivatives are not designated as hedging instruments. Gains and losses on the contracts are included in other income (loss), net, and substantially offset foreign exchange gains and losses from the remeasurement of intercompany balances or other current assets, investments, or liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the reporting entity.
We hedge certain net investments in our foreign operations with forward contracts to reduce the effects of foreign currency fluctuations on our net investment in those foreign subsidiaries. These derivative instruments generally have maturities of up to six months. 
Interest Rate Derivatives Designated as Fair Value Hedges, Long-Term Debt We hold interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges related to fixed-rate senior notes that are due in fiscal 2020 through 2025. Under these interest rate swaps, we receive fixed-rate interest payments and make interest payments based on LIBOR plus a fixed number of basis points. The effect of such swaps is to convert the fixed interest rates of the senior fixed-rate notes to floating interest rates based on LIBOR. The gains and losses related to changes in the fair value of the interest rate swaps are included in interest expense and substantially offset changes in the fair value of the hedged portion of the underlying debt that are attributable to the changes in market interest rates. 
We hold marketable equity securities in our portfolio that are subject to price risk. To diversify our overall portfolio, we also hold equity derivatives that are not designated as accounting hedges. The change in the fair value of each of these investment types are included in other income (loss), net. 
We are also exposed to variability in compensation charges related to certain deferred compensation obligations to employees. Although not designated as accounting hedges, we utilize derivatives such as total return swaps to economically hedge this exposure and offset the related compensation expense. 
We purchase components from a variety of suppliers and use several contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for our products. During the normal course of business, in order to manage manufacturing lead times and help ensure adequate component supply, we enter into agreements with contract manufacturers and suppliers that either allow them to procure inventory based upon criteria as defined by us or establish the parameters defining our requirements. A significant portion of our reported 
purchase commitments arising from these agreements consists of firm, noncancelable, and unconditional commitments. Certain of these purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers relate to arrangements to secure long-term pricing for certain product components for multi-year periods. In certain instances, these agreements allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to firm orders being placed. 
We record a liability for firm, noncancelable, and unconditional purchase commitments for quantities in excess of our future demand forecasts consistent with the valuation of our excess and obsolete inventory. As of October 26, 2019 and July 27, 2019, the liability for these purchase commitments was $121 million and $129 million, respectively, and was included in other current liabilities.
In connection with our acquisitions, we have agreed to pay certain additional amounts contingent upon the achievement of certain agreed-upon technology, development, product, or other milestones or upon the continued employment with Cisco of certain employees of the acquired entities. 
As of October 26, 2019, we estimated that future cash compensation expense of up to $430 million may be required to be recognized pursuant to the applicable business combination agreements. 
We also have certain funding commitments, primarily related to our non-marketable equity and other investments, some of which are based on the achievement of certain agreed-upon milestones, and some of which are required to be funded on demand. The funding commitments were $311 million and $326 million as of October 26, 2019 and July 27, 2019, respectively.
We accrue for warranty costs as part of our cost of sales based on associated material product costs, labor costs for technical support staff, and associated overhead. Our products are generally covered by a warranty for periods ranging from 90 days to five years, and for some products we provide a limited lifetime warranty.
In the ordinary course of business, we provide financing guarantees for various third-party financing arrangements extended to channel partners and end-user customers. Payments under these financing guarantee arrangements were not material for the periods presented.
End-User Financing Guarantees We also provide financing guarantees for third-party financing arrangements extended to end-user customers related to leases and loans, which typically have terms of up to three years. The volume of financing provided by third parties for leases and loans as to which we had provided guarantees was $5 million and $3 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and 2019, respectively.
Charter Communications, Inc., which acquired Time Warner Cable (“TWC”) in May 2016, is seeking indemnification from us for a final judgment obtained by Sprint Communications Company, L.P. (“Sprint”) against TWC in federal court in Kansas. Sprint sought monetary damages, alleging that TWC infringed certain Sprint patents by offering VoIP telephone services utilizing products provided by us generally in combination with those of other manufacturers. Following a trial on March 3, 2017, a jury in Kansas found that TWC willfully infringed five Sprint patents and awarded Sprint $139.8 million in damages. On March 14, 2017, the Kansas court declined Sprint's request for enhanced damages and entered judgment in favor of Sprint for $139.8 million plus 1.06% in post-judgment interest. On May 30, 2017, the Court awarded Sprint $20.3 million in pre-judgment interest and denied TWC's post-trial motions. TWC appealed to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, and, on November 30, 2018, a panel of the court affirmed the judgment. TWC filed a petition for rehearing en banc on January 29, 2019, which was denied on March 19, 2019. TWC petitioned the U.S. Supreme Court for review of the judgment, which was denied on November 4, 2019. At this time, we do not believe that our indemnity obligations under our agreement will be material. 
In addition, we have entered into indemnification agreements with our officers and directors, and our Amended and Restated Bylaws contain similar indemnification obligations to our agents. 
SRI International  On September 4, 2013, SRI International, Inc. (“SRI”) asserted patent infringement claims against us in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware, accusing our products and services in the area of network intrusion detection of infringing two U.S. patents. SRI sought monetary damages of at least a reasonable royalty and enhanced damages. The trial on these claims began on May 2, 2016 and, on May 12, 2016, the jury returned a verdict finding willful infringement of the asserted patents. The jury awarded SRI damages of $23.7 million. On May 25, 2017, the Court awarded SRI enhanced damages and attorneys’ fees, entered judgment in the new amount of $57.0 million, and ordered an ongoing royalty of 3.5% through the expiration of the patents in 2018. We appealed to the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit on various grounds, a panel of which, after various proceedings, on July 12, 2019, issued an opinion vacating the enhanced damages award; vacating and remanding in part the willful infringement finding; vacating and remanding the attorneys’ fees award for further proceedings; and affirming the district court's other findings. Cisco paid SRI $28.1 million, representing the portion of the judgment that the Federal Circuit affirmed, plus interest and royalties on post-verdict sales. This payment is subject to a refund if any portion of the affirmed judgment is reversed or vacated by the U.S. Supreme Court. On November 8, 2019, Cisco filed a petition for a writ of certiorari with the U.S. Supreme Court, seeking review of the judgment on the grounds that the asserted patents describe patent-ineligible subject matter. While the remanded proceedings may result in an additional loss, we do not expect it to be material.
Straight Path On September 24, 2014, Straight Path IP Group, Inc. (“Straight Path”) asserted patent infringement claims against us in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California, accusing our 9971 IP Phone, Unified Communications Manager working in conjunction with 9971 IP Phones, and Video Communication Server products of infringement. All of the asserted patents have expired and Straight Path was therefore limited to seeking monetary damages for the alleged past infringement. On November 13, 2017, the Court granted our motion for summary judgment of non-infringement, thereby dismissing Straight Path's claims against us and cancelling a trial which had been set for March 12, 2018. Straight Path appealed to the U.S. Court of Appeal for the Federal Circuit, and, on January 23, 2019, the court summarily affirmed the finding of non-infringement. On August 23, 2019, Straight Path filed a petition with the United States Supreme Court challenging the constitutionality of the Federal Circuit’s rule allowing summary affirmance, which was denied on November 18, 2019.
Oyster Optics On November 24, 2016, Oyster Optics, LLC (“Oyster”) asserted patent infringement claims against us in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. Oyster alleges that certain Cisco ONS 15454 and NCS 2000 line cards infringe U.S. Patent No. 7,620,327 (“the ‘327 Patent”). Oyster seeks monetary damages. Oyster filed infringement claims based on the ‘327 Patent against other defendants, including ZTE, Nokia, NEC, Infinera, Huawei, Ciena, Alcatel-Lucent, and Fujitsu, and the court consolidated the cases alleging infringement of the ‘327 Patent. Oyster's cases against some of the defendants were resolved. The court vacated the November 4, 2018 trial date set for Oyster's claims against Cisco and one other remaining defendant, pending resolution of Oyster's appeal of the court's summary judgment ruling dismissing certain of Oyster's claims. Oyster appealed the summary judgment ruling on December 6, 2018. While we believe that we have strong non-infringement arguments and that the patent is invalid, if Oyster prevails in its appeal of the summary judgment ruling, and if we do not prevail in the District Court in a subsequent trial, we believe damages ultimately assessed would not be material. Due to uncertainty surrounding patent litigation processes, we are unable to reasonably estimate the ultimate outcome of this litigation at this time. However, we do not anticipate that any final outcome of the dispute would be material.
We declared and paid cash dividends of $0.35 and $0.33 per common share, or $1.5 billion, on our outstanding common stock for each the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2019.
Any future dividends will be subject to the approval of our Board of Directors.
The purchase price for the shares of our stock repurchased is reflected as a reduction to shareholders’ equity. We are required to allocate the purchase price of the repurchased shares as (i) a reduction to retained earnings and (ii) a reduction of common stock and additional paid-in capital.
Under the terms of our Articles of Incorporation, the Board of Directors may determine the rights, preferences, and terms of our authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock.
Under the 2005 Plan’s share reserve feature, a distinction is made between the number of shares in the reserve attributable to (i) stock options and SARs and (ii) “full value” awards (i.e., stock grants and stock units). Shares issued as stock grants, pursuant to stock units or pursuant to the settlement of dividend equivalents are counted against shares available for issuance under the 2005 Plan on a 1.5-to-1 ratio. If awards issued under the 2005 Plan are forfeited or terminated for any reason before being exercised or settled, then the shares underlying such awards, plus the number of additional shares, if any, that counted against shares available for issuance under the 2005 Plan at the time of grant as a result of the application of the share ratio described above, will become available again for issuance under the 2005 Plan.
We have an Employee Stock Purchase Plan under which 721.4 million shares of our common stock have been reserved for issuance as of October 26, 2019. Eligible employees are offered shares through a 24-month offering period, which consists of four consecutive 6-month purchase periods. Employees may purchase a limited amount of shares of our stock at a discount of up to 15% of the lesser of the fair market value at the beginning of the offering period or the end of each 6-month purchase period. The Employee Stock Purchase Plan is scheduled to terminate on the earlier of (i) January 3, 2030 and (ii) the date on which all shares available for issuance under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan are sold pursuant to exercised purchase rights. No shares were issued under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan during each of the first quarters of fiscal 2020 and 2019. As of October 26, 2019, 159 million shares were available for issuance under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan.
As of October 26, 2019, the total compensation cost related to unvested share-based awards not yet recognized was $3.1 billion which is expected to be recognized over approximately 2.8 years on a weighted-average basis. 
For each share awarded as restricted stock or a restricted stock unit award under the 2005 Plan, 1.5 shares was deducted from the available share-based award balance. For restricted stock units that were awarded with vesting contingent upon the achievement of future financial performance or market-based metrics, the maximum awards that can be achieved upon full vesting of such awards were reflected in the preceding table. 
The PRSUs granted during the periods presented are contingent on the achievement of our financial performance metrics or our comparative market-based returns. For the awards based on financial performance metrics or comparative market-based returns, generally 50% of the PRSUs are earned based on the average of annual operating cash flow and earnings per share goals established at the beginning of each fiscal year over a three-year performance period. Generally, the remaining 50% of the PRSUs are earned based on our TSR measured against the benchmark TSR of a peer group over the same period. Each PRSU recipient could vest in 0% to 150% of the target shares granted contingent on the achievement of our financial performance metrics or our comparative market-based returns. 
Comprehensive Income 
The effective tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 includes a $152 million tax benefit relating to indirect effects from adoption of ASC 606 at the beginning of fiscal 2019.
Amounts may not sum and percentages may not recalculate due to rounding.
Revenue in the United States was $7.1 billion and $6.9 billion for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and 2019, respectively.
We design, manufacture, and sell Internet Protocol (IP)-based networking and other products related to the communications and information technology (IT) industry and provide services associated with these products and their use. 
Amounts may not sum due to rounding.
The majority of our assets were attributable to our U.S. operations as of each of October 26, 2019 and July 27, 2019. 
Employee equity share options, unvested shares, and similar equity instruments granted and assumed by Cisco are treated as potential common shares outstanding in computing diluted earnings per share. Diluted shares outstanding include the dilutive effect of in-the-money options, unvested restricted stock, and restricted stock units. The dilutive effect of such equity awards is calculated based on the average share price for each fiscal period using the treasury stock method. Under the treasury stock method, the amount the employee must pay for exercising stock options and the amount of compensation cost for future service that has not yet been recognized are collectively assumed to be used to repurchase shares.
For a description of our material pending legal proceedings, see Note 14 “Commitments and Contingencies—(f) Legal Proceedings” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of this Form 10-Q.
 • Our ability to maintain appropriate inventory levels and purchase commitments
 • The overall movement toward industry consolidation among both our competitors and our customers
 • The transformation of our business to deliver more software and subscription offerings where revenue is recognized over time
 • Variations in sales channels, product costs, mix of products sold, or mix of direct sales and indirect sales
 • The timing, size, and mix of orders from customers
 • Manufacturing and customer lead times
 • The ability of our customers, channel partners, contract manufacturers and suppliers to obtain financing or to fund capital expenditures, especially during a period of global credit market disruption or in the event of customer, channel partner, contract manufacturer or supplier financial problems
 • Our ability to achieve targeted cost reductions
 • Benefits anticipated from our investments in engineering, sales, service, and marketing
 • Changes in tax laws or accounting rules, or interpretations thereof
 • Reduced demand for our products as a result of continued constraints on IT-related capital spending by our customers, particularly service providers, and other customer markets as well
 • Risk of excess and obsolete inventories
 • Risk of supply constraints
 • Risk of excess facilities and manufacturing capacity
 • Higher overhead costs as a percentage of revenue and higher interest expense
In addition, reports of certain intelligence gathering methods of the U.S. government could affect customers’ perception of the products of IT companies which design and manufacture products in the United States. Trust and confidence in us as an IT supplier is critical to the development and growth of our markets. Impairment of that trust, or foreign regulatory actions taken in response to reports of certain intelligence gathering methods of the U.S. government, could affect the demand for our products from customers outside of the United States and could have an adverse effect on our operating results.
 • Changes in customer, geographic, or product mix, including mix of configurations within each product group
 • Introduction of new products, including products with price-performance advantages, and new business models including the transformation of our business to deliver more software and subscription offerings
 • Sales discounts
 • Increases in material, labor or other manufacturing-related costs, which could be significant especially during periods of supply constraints such as those impacting the market for memory components
 • Excess inventory and inventory holding charges
 • Obsolescence charges
 • Changes in shipment volume
 • The timing of revenue recognition and revenue deferrals
 • Lower than expected benefits from value engineering
 • Changes in distribution channels
 • Increased warranty costs
 • Increased amortization of purchased intangible assets, especially from acquisitions
 • How well we execute on our strategy and operating plans
Changes in service gross margin may result from various factors such as changes in the mix between technical support services and advanced services, as well as the timing of technical support service contract initiations and renewals and the addition of personnel and other resources to support higher levels of service business in future periods. 
A substantial portion of our products and services is sold through our channel partners, and the remainder is sold through direct sales. Our channel partners include systems integrators, service providers, other resellers, and distributors. Systems integrators and service providers typically sell directly to end users and often provide system installation, technical support, professional services, and other support services in addition to network equipment sales. Systems integrators also typically integrate our products into an overall solution, and a number of service providers are also systems integrators. Distributors stock inventory and typically sell to systems integrators, service providers, and other resellers. We refer to sales through distributors as our two-tier system of sales to the end customer. These distributors are generally given business terms that allow them to return a portion of inventory, receive credits for changes in selling prices, and participate in various cooperative marketing programs. If sales through indirect channels increase, this may lead to greater difficulty in forecasting the mix of our products and, to a degree, the timing of orders from our customers. 
 • We compete with some of our channel partners, including through our direct sales, which may lead these channel partners to use other suppliers that do not directly sell their own products or otherwise compete with them
 • Some of our channel partners may demand that we absorb a greater share of the risks that their customers may ask them to bear
As we continue to expand globally, we may see new competition in different geographic regions. In particular, we have experienced price-focused competition from competitors in Asia, especially from China, and we anticipate this will continue. Our competitors (in each case relative to only some of our products or services) include Amazon Web Services LLC; Arista Networks, Inc.; Broadcom Inc.; CommScope Holding Company, Inc.; Check Point Software Technologies Ltd.; Dell Technologies Inc.; Extreme Networks, Inc.; F5 Networks, Inc.; FireEye, Inc.; Fortinet, Inc.; Hewlett-Packard Enterprise Company; Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd.; Juniper Networks, Inc.; Lenovo Group Limited; LogMeIn, Inc.; Microsoft Corporation; New Relic, Inc.; Nokia Corporation; Nutanix, Inc.; Palo Alto Networks, Inc.; RingCentral, Inc.; Slack Technologies, Inc.; Ubiquiti Inc.; VMware, Inc.; Zoom Video Communications, Inc.; and Zscaler, Inc.; among others. 
are among our long-term strategic alliance partners. Companies that are strategic alliance partners in some areas of our business may acquire or form alliances with our competitors, thereby reducing their business with us.
 • The ability to sell successful business outcomes 
 • Product performance
 • The ability to introduce new products, including providing continuous new customer value and products with price-performance advantages
 • The ability to reduce production costs
 • Market presence
 • Disruptive technology shifts and new business models
 • Any financial problems of either contract manufacturers or component suppliers could either limit supply or increase costs
 • Industry consolidation occurring within one or more component supplier markets, such as the semiconductor market, could either limit supply or increase costs
Our growth and ability to meet customer demands depend in part on our ability to obtain timely deliveries of parts from our suppliers and contract manufacturers. We have experienced component shortages in the past, including shortages caused by manufacturing process issues, that have affected our operations. We may in the future experience a shortage of certain component parts as a result of our own manufacturing issues, manufacturing issues at our suppliers or contract manufacturers, capacity problems experienced by our suppliers or contract manufacturers including capacity or cost problems resulting from industry consolidation, or strong demand in the industry for those parts. Growth in the economy is likely to create greater pressures on us and our suppliers to accurately project overall component demand and component demands within specific product categories and to establish optimal component levels and manufacturing capacity, especially for labor-intensive components, components for which we purchase a substantial portion of the supply, or the re-ramping of manufacturing capacity for highly complex products. During periods of shortages or delays the price of components may increase, or the components may not be available at all, and we may also encounter shortages if we do not accurately anticipate our needs. We may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build new products in a timely manner in the quantities or configurations needed. Accordingly, our revenue and gross margins could suffer until other sources can be developed. Our operating results would also be adversely affected if, anticipating greater demand than actually develops, we commit to the purchase of more components than we need, which is more likely to occur in a period of demand uncertainties such as we are currently experiencing. There can be no assurance that we will not encounter these problems in the future. Although in many cases we use standard parts and components for our products, certain components are presently available only from a single source or limited sources, and a global economic downturn and related market uncertainty could negatively impact the availability of components from one or more of these sources, especially during times such as we have recently seen when there are supplier constraints based on labor and other actions taken during economic downturns. We may not be able to diversify sources in a timely manner, which could harm our ability to deliver products to customers and seriously impact present and future sales. 
 • New markets in which we participate may grow quickly, which may make it difficult to quickly obtain significant component capacity
 • As we acquire companies and new technologies, we may be dependent, at least initially, on unfamiliar supply chains or relatively small supply partners
 • We face competition for certain components that are supply-constrained, from existing competitors, and companies in other markets
Manufacturing capacity and component supply constraints could continue to be significant issues for us. We purchase components from a variety of suppliers and use several contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for our products. During the normal course of business, in order to improve manufacturing lead-time performance and to help ensure adequate component supply, we enter into agreements with contract manufacturers and suppliers that either allow them to procure inventory based upon criteria as defined by us or that establish the parameters defining our requirements. In certain instances, these agreements allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to firm orders being placed. When facing component supply-related challenges we have increased our efforts in procuring components in order to meet customer expectations, which in turn contributes to an increase in purchase commitments. Increases in our purchase commitments to shorten lead times could also lead to excess and obsolete inventory charges if the demand for our products is less than our expectations. 
We have also been transforming our business to move from selling individual products and services to selling products and services integrated into architectures and solutions, and we are seeking to meet the evolving needs of customers which include offering our products and solutions in the manner in which customers wish to consume them. As a part of this transformation, we continue to make changes to how we are organized and how we build and deliver our technology, including changes in our business models with customers. If our strategy for addressing our customer needs, or the architectures and solutions we develop do not meet those needs, or the changes we are making in how we are organized and how we build and deliver or technology is incorrect or ineffective, our business could be harmed.
Furthermore, we may not execute successfully on our vision or strategy because of challenges with regard to product planning and timing, technical hurdles that we fail to overcome in a timely fashion, or a lack of appropriate resources. This could result in competitors, some of which may also be our strategic alliance partners, providing those solutions before we do and loss of market share, revenue, and earnings. In addition, the growth in demand for technology delivered as a service enables new competitors to enter the market. The success of new products and services depends on several factors, including proper new product and service definition, component costs, timely completion and introduction of these products and services, differentiation of new products and services from those of our competitors, and market acceptance of these products and services. There can be no assurance that we will successfully identify new product and services opportunities, develop and bring new products and services to market in a timely manner, or achieve market acceptance of our products and services or that products, services and technologies developed by others will not render our products, services or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. The products and technologies in our other product categories and key priority and growth areas may not prove to have the market success we anticipate, and we may not successfully identify and invest in other emerging or new products and services.
in certain instances our supply agreements allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to firm orders being placed, our loss contingencies may include liabilities for contracts that we cannot cancel with contract manufacturers and suppliers. Further, our estimates relating to the liabilities for excess facilities are affected by changes in real estate market conditions. Additionally, we are required to perform goodwill impairment tests on an annual basis and between annual tests in certain circumstances, and future goodwill impairment tests may result in a charge to earnings.
While we intend to focus on managing our costs and expenses, over the long term, we also intend to invest in personnel and other resources related to our engineering, sales, service and marketing functions as we realign and dedicate resources on key priority and growth areas, such as Security and Applications, and we also intend to focus on maintaining leadership in Infrastructure Platforms and in Services. We are likely to recognize the costs associated with these investments earlier than some of the anticipated benefits, and the return on these investments may be lower, or may develop more slowly, than we expect. If we do not achieve the benefits anticipated from these investments, or if the achievement of these benefits is delayed, our operating results may be adversely affected. 
 • Diversion of management’s attention from normal daily operations of the business and the challenges of managing larger and more widespread operations resulting from acquisitions
 • Potential difficulties in completing projects associated with in-process research and development intangibles
 • Initial dependence on unfamiliar supply chains or relatively small supply partners
 • Insufficient revenue to offset increased expenses associated with acquisitions
 • The potential loss of key employees, customers, distributors, vendors and other business partners of the companies we acquire following and continuing after announcement of acquisition plans
 • Use a substantial portion of our cash resources, or incur debt
 • Significantly increase our interest expense, leverage and debt service requirements if we incur additional debt to pay for an acquisition
 • Assume liabilities
 • Record goodwill and intangible assets that are subject to impairment testing on a regular basis and potential periodic impairment charges
 • Incur tax expenses related to the effect of acquisitions on our legal structure
 • Incur large write-offs and restructuring and other related expenses
As we focus on new market opportunities and key priority and growth areas, we will increasingly compete with large telecommunications equipment suppliers as well as startup companies. Several of our competitors may have greater resources, including technical and engineering resources, than we do. Additionally, as customers in these markets complete infrastructure deployments, they may require greater levels of service, support, and financing than we have provided in the past, especially in emerging countries. Demand for these types of service, support, or financing contracts may increase in the future. There can be no assurance that we can provide products, service, support, and financing to effectively compete for these market opportunities. 
There has been a trend toward industry consolidation in our markets for several years. We expect this trend to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving industry and as companies are acquired or are unable to continue operations. For example, some of our current and potential competitors for enterprise data center business have made acquisitions, or announced new strategic alliances, designed to position them with the ability to provide end-to-end technology solutions for the enterprise data center. Companies that are strategic alliance partners in some areas of our business may acquire or form alliances with our competitors, thereby reducing their business with us. We believe that industry consolidation may result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete as sole-source vendors for customers. This could lead to more variability in our operating results and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Furthermore, particularly in the service provider market, rapid consolidation will lead to fewer customers, with the effect that loss of a major customer could have a material impact on results not anticipated in a customer marketplace composed of more numerous participants.
 • Foreign currency exchange rates
 • Economic instability or weakness or natural disasters in a specific country or region, including the current economic challenges in China and global economic ramifications of Chinese economic difficulties; instability as a result of Brexit; environmental protection measures, trade protection measures such as tariffs, and other legal and regulatory requirements, some of which may affect our ability to import our products, to export our products from, or sell our products in various countries or affect our ability to procure components
 • Political considerations that affect service provider and government spending patterns
Most of our sales are on an open credit basis, with typical payment terms of 30 days in the United States and, because of local customs or conditions, longer in some markets outside the United States. We monitor individual customer payment capability in granting such open credit arrangements, seek to limit such open credit to amounts we believe the customers can pay, and maintain reserves we believe are adequate to cover exposure for doubtful accounts. Beyond our open credit arrangements, we have also experienced demands for customer financing and facilitation of leasing arrangements. 
We believe customer financing is a competitive factor in obtaining business, particularly in serving customers involved in significant infrastructure projects. Our loan financing arrangements may include not only financing the acquisition of our products and services but also providing additional funds for other costs associated with network installation and integration of our products and services. 
We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. Our portfolio includes available-for-sale debt investments and equity investments, the values of which are subject to market price volatility. If such investments suffer market price declines, as we experienced with some of our investments in the past, we may recognize in earnings the decline in the fair value of our investments below their cost basis when the decline is judged to be other than temporary. Our non-marketable equity and other investments are subject to risk of loss of investment capital. These investments are inherently risky because the markets for the technologies or products they have under development are typically in the early stages and may never materialize. We could lose our entire investment in these companies. For information regarding the market risks associated with the fair value of portfolio investments and interest rates, refer to the section titled “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” 
We enter into foreign exchange forward contracts and options to reduce the short-term impact of foreign currency fluctuations on certain foreign currency receivables, investments, and payables. In addition, we periodically hedge anticipated foreign currency cash flows. Our attempts to hedge against these risks may result in an adverse impact on our net income. 
As is the case with leading products around the world, our products are subject to efforts by third parties to produce counterfeit versions of our products. While we work diligently with law enforcement authorities in various countries to block the manufacture of counterfeit goods and to interdict their sale, and to detect counterfeit products in customer networks, and have succeeded in prosecuting counterfeiters and their distributors, resulting in fines, imprisonment and restitution to us, there can be no guarantee that such efforts will succeed. While counterfeiters often aim their sales at customers who might not have otherwise 
Currently, few laws or regulations apply directly to access or commerce on the Internet. We could be materially adversely affected by regulation of the Internet and Internet commerce in any country where we operate. Such regulations could include matters such as voice over the Internet or using IP, encryption technology, sales or other taxes on Internet product or service sales, and access charges for Internet service providers. The adoption of regulation of the Internet and Internet commerce could decrease demand for our products and, at the same time, increase the cost of selling our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. 
Changes in telecommunications requirements, or regulatory requirements in other industries in which we operate, in the United States or other countries could affect the sales of our products. In particular, we believe that there may be future changes in U.S. telecommunications regulations that could slow the expansion of the service providers’ network infrastructures and materially adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition, including “net neutrality” rules to the extent they impact decisions on investment in network infrastructure.
Our corporate headquarters, including certain of our research and development operations are located in the Silicon Valley area of Northern California, a region known for seismic activity. Additionally, a certain number of our facilities are located near rivers that have experienced flooding in the past. Also certain of our suppliers and logistics centers are located in regions that have been or may be affected by earthquake, tsunami and flooding activity which in the past has disrupted, and in the future could disrupt, the flow of components and delivery of products. A significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, a hurricane, volcano, or a flood, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition. 
The products and services we sell to customers, and our cloud-based solutions, inevitably contain vulnerabilities or critical security defects which have not been remedied and cannot be disclosed without compromising security. We may also make prioritization 
decisions in determining which vulnerabilities or security defects to fix, and the timing of these fixes, which could result in an exploit which compromises security. Customers also need to test security releases before they can be deployed which can delay implementation. In addition, we rely on third-party providers of software and cloud-based service and we cannot control the rate at which they remedy vulnerabilities. Customers may also not deploy a security release, or decide not to upgrade to the latest versions of our products, services or cloud-based solutions containing the release, leaving them vulnerable. Vulnerabilities and critical security defects, prioritization errors in remedying vulnerabilities or security defects, failure of third-party providers to remedy vulnerabilities or security defects, or customers not deploying security releases or deciding not to upgrade products, services or solutions could result in claims of liability against us, damage our reputation or otherwise harm our business.
We have several strategic alliances with large and complex organizations and other companies with which we work to offer complementary products and services and in the past have established a joint venture to market services associated with our Cisco Unified Computing System products. These arrangements are generally limited to specific projects, the goal of which is generally to facilitate product compatibility and adoption of industry standards. There can be no assurance we will realize the expected benefits from these strategic alliances or from the joint venture. If successful, these relationships may be mutually beneficial and result in industry growth. However, alliances carry an element of risk because, in most cases, we must compete in some business areas with a company with which we have a strategic alliance and, at the same time, cooperate with that company in other business areas. Also, if these companies fail to perform or if these relationships fail to materialize as expected, we could suffer delays in product development or other operational difficulties. Joint ventures can be difficult to manage, given the potentially different interests of joint venture partners. 
As of the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2020, we have senior unsecured notes outstanding in an aggregate principal amount of $18.5 billion that mature at specific dates from calendar year 2020 through 2040. We have also established a commercial paper program under which we may issue short-term, unsecured commercial paper notes on a private placement basis up to a maximum aggregate amount outstanding at any time of $10.0 billion, and we had no commercial paper notes outstanding under this program as of October 26, 2019. The outstanding senior unsecured notes bear fixed-rate interest payable semiannually. The fair value of the long-term debt is subject to market interest rate volatility. The instruments governing the senior unsecured notes contain certain covenants applicable to us and our wholly-owned subsidiaries that may adversely affect our ability to incur certain liens or engage in certain types of sale and leaseback transactions. In addition, we will be required to have available in the United States sufficient cash to service the interest on our debt and repay all of our notes on maturity. There can be no assurance that our incurrence of this debt or any future debt will be a better means of providing liquidity to us than would our use of our existing cash resources. Further, we cannot be assured that our maintenance of this indebtedness or incurrence of future indebtedness will not adversely affect our operating results or financial condition. In addition, changes by any rating agency to our credit rating can negatively impact the value and liquidity of both our debt and equity securities, as well as the terms upon which we may borrow under our commercial paper program or future debt issuances.
