fls.txt



item1.txt
The accounts of HHI include those of its wholly-owned subsidiaries, Healthland Inc. ("Healthland"), Rycan Technologies, Inc. ("Rycan"), and American HealthTech, Inc. ("AHT").
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued ASU 2016-02, Leases, to increase transparency and comparability among organizations by recognizing lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet and disclosing key information about leasing arrangements.
The new guidance requires the recognition of lease assets and lease liabilities by lessees for those leases classified as operating leases under previous U.S. GAAP.
This guidance will be effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those years beginning after December 15, 2019, which is effective for the Company as of the first quarter of our fiscal year ending December 31, 2020.
The Company enters into contractual obligations to sell perpetual software licenses, installation, conversion, training, hardware and software application support and hardware maintenance services to acute care and post-acute care community hospitals.
•Software application support and hardware maintenance services sold with software licenses and hardware are separate and distinct performance obligations.
Revenue for support and maintenance services is recognized based on SSP, which is the renewal price, ratably over the life of the contract, which is generally three to five years.
•Subscriptions to third party content revenue is recognized as a separate performance obligation ratably over the subscription term based on SSP, which is cost plus a reasonable margin.
•Software as a Service ("SaaS") arrangements for EHR software and related conversion and training services are considered a single performance obligation.
Refer to Note 15 - Segment Reporting, for further information, including revenue by client base (acute care or post-acute care) bifurcated by recurring and non-recurring revenue.
The deferred revenue recorded during the three months ended March 31, 2019 is comprised primarily of the annual renewals of certain software subscriptions billed during the first quarter of each year and deposits collected for future EHR installations.
The deferred revenue recognized as revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 is comprised primarily of the periodic recognition of annual renewals that were deferred until earned and deposits for future EHR installations that were deferred until earned.
Disclosures regarding remaining performance obligations are not considered material as the overwhelming majority of the Company's remaining performance obligations either (a) are related to contracts with an expected duration of one year or less, or (b) exhibit revenue recognition in the amount to which the Company has the right to invoice.


item2.txt
This discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
•TruBridge, our third reporting segment, focuses on providing business management, consulting, and managed IT services along with its complete revenue cycle management ("RCM") solution for all care settings, regardless of their primary healthcare information solutions provider.
Our companies currently support approximately 1,000 acute care facilities and approximately 3,300 post-acute care facilities with a geographically diverse customer mix within the domestic community healthcare market.
Our clients primarily consist of community hospitals with fewer than 200 acute care beds, with hospitals having fewer than 100 beds comprising approximately 98% of our acute care EHR client base.
As a result, retention of existing EHR customers is a key component of our long-term growth strategy by protecting this base of potential cross-sell customers, while at the same time serving as a leading indicator of our market position and stability of revenues and cash flows.
 Additionally, as we consider the long-term growth prospects of our business, we are seeking to further stabilize our revenues and cash flows and leverage TruBridge services as a growth agent in light of a relatively mature EHR marketplace.
As such, maintaining and growing recurring revenues are additional key components of our long-term growth strategy, aided by the aforementioned focus on customer retention, and include a renewed focus on driving demand for subscriptions for our existing technology solutions.
 Our business model is designed such that, as revenue growth materializes, earnings and profitability growth are naturally bolstered through the increased margin realization afforded us by operating leverage.
The provision of these recurring revenue services typically requires fewer resources than the initial system installation, resulting in increased overall gross margins and operating margins.
Additionally, healthcare organizations with a large dependency on Medicare and Medicaid populations, such as community hospitals, have been affected by the challenging financial condition of the federal government and many state governments and government programs.
Additionally, in response to these challenges, hospitals have become more selective regarding where they invest capital, resulting in a focus on strategic spending that generates a return on their investment.
Despite these challenges, we believe healthcare information technology is often viewed as more strategically beneficial to hospitals than other possible purchases because the technology also plays an important role in healthcare by improving safety and efficiency and reducing costs.
Additionally, we believe most hospitals recognize that they must invest in healthcare information technology to meet current and future regulatory, compliance and government reimbursement requirements.
In recent years, there have been significant changes to provider reimbursement by the U.S. federal government, followed by commercial payers and state governments.


item3.txt
The Amended Term Loan Facility and Amended Revolving Credit Facility bear interest at a rate per annum equal to an applicable margin plus (1) the Adjusted LIBOR rate for the relevant interest period, (2) an alternate base rate determined by reference to the greatest of (a) the prime lending rate of Regions, (b) the federal funds rate for the relevant interest period plus one half of one percent per annum and (c) the one month LIBOR rate plus one percent per annum, or (3) a combination of (1) and (2).


item4.txt
Even disclosure controls and procedures determined to be effective can only provide reasonable assurance that their objectives are achieved.


part2.txt
The risks described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K are not the only risks facing our Company.


