Certain footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP") have been condensed or omitted.
The new guidance requires the recognition of lease assets and lease liabilities by lessees for those leases classified as operating leases under previous U.S. GAAP.
This guidance will be effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those years beginning after December 15, 2019, which is effective for the Company as of the first quarter of our fiscal year ending December 31, 2020.
The Company enters into contractual obligations to sell perpetual software licenses, installation, conversion, training, hardware and software application support and hardware maintenance services to acute care and post-acute care community hospitals.
•Software application support and hardware maintenance services sold with software licenses and hardware are separate and distinct performance obligations.
Revenue for support and maintenance services is recognized based on SSP, which is the renewal price, ratably over the life of the contract, which is generally three to five years.
•Subscriptions to third party content revenue is recognized as a separate performance obligation ratably over the subscription term based on SSP, which is cost plus a reasonable margin.•Evident, which makes up our Acute Care EHR reporting segment, provides comprehensive acute care electronic health record ("EHR") solutions, Thrive and Centriq, and related services for community hospitals and their physician clinics.
•TruBridge, our third reporting segment, focuses on providing business management, consulting, and managed IT services along with its complete revenue cycle management ("RCM") solution for all care settings, regardless of their primary healthcare information solutions provider.
•Get Real Health, included within our TruBridge segment, delivers technology solutions to improve patient outcomes and engagement strategies with care providers.
Our companies currently support approximately 1,000 acute care facilities and approximately 3,300 post-acute care facilities with a geographically diverse customer mix within the domestic community healthcare market.
Our clients primarily consist of community hospitals with fewer than 200 acute care beds, with hospitals having fewer than 100 beds comprising approximately 98% of our acute care EHR client base.
See Note 16 to the condensed consolidated financial statements included herein for additional information on our three reportable segments.
 Additionally, as we consider the long-term growth prospects of our business, we are seeking to further stabilize our revenues and cash flows and leverage TruBridge services as a growth agent in light of a relatively mature EHR marketplace.
As such, maintaining and growing recurring revenues are additional key components of our long-term growth strategy, aided by the aforementioned focus on customer retention, and includes a renewed focus on driving demand for subscriptions for our existing technology solutions.
 Our business model is designed such that, as revenue growth materializes, earnings and profitability growth are naturally bolstered through the increased margin realization afforded us by operating leverage.
For example, during the first quarter of 2018, we further integrated our acute care product lines into a combined client support group.Even disclosure controls and procedures determined to be effective can only provide reasonable assurance that their objectives are achieved.Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.