fls.txt



item1.txt
All such adjustments are of a normal, recurring nature.
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in the Consolidated Financial Statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“U.S.
GAAP”) have been condensed or omitted pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).
The results of operations for interim periods are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for the full year.
These estimates and assumptions have been applied using methodologies that are consistent throughout the periods presented.
However, actual results could differ materially from these estimates.
2015‑11, “Inventory (Topic 330) - Simplifying the Measurement of Inventory” (“ASU 2015‑11”), which dictates that an entity should measure inventory within the scope of this update at the lower of cost and net realizable value.
Net realizable value is the estimated selling prices in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal, and transportation.
The Company’s adoption of ASU 2015‑11 did not have a material impact on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
Goodwill is primarily attributable to the benefits the Company expects to derive from diversifying product offerings to its Data Center Devices and Solutions and Client Solutions end markets as well as the acquired workforce.
Goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax purposes because the acquisitions were structured as asset acquisitions but accounted for as business combinations.
Concurrent with these acquisitions, the Company received $36 million in proceeds on previously outstanding notes receivable due from these acquired entities.
Revenues and earnings related to these acquisitions was not material.
Note 4.Fair Value Measurements and Investments Level 1.Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2.Inputs other than Level 1 that are observable, either directly or indirectly, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.


item2.txt
See also “Forward-Looking Statements” immediately prior to Part I, Item 1 in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Unless otherwise indicated, references herein to specific years and quarters are to our fiscal years and fiscal quarters.
As used herein, the terms “we,” “us,” “our,” and the “Company” refer to Western Digital Corporation and its subsidiaries.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
The risks and uncertainties discussed below update and supersede the risks and uncertainties previously disclosed in Part II, Item 1A of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 29, 2017.
Our direct and indirect customers may delay or reduce their purchases of our products and systems containing our products.
If demand for our products slows as a result of a deterioration in economic conditions, we may undertake restructuring activities to realign our cost structure with softening demand.
We extend credit and payment terms to some of our customers.
We could suffer significant losses if a customer whose accounts receivable we have not insured, or have underinsured, fails to pay us on their accounts receivable balances.
We test goodwill for impairment annually as of the first day of our fourth quarter and at other times if events have occurred or circumstances exist that indicate the carrying value of goodwill may no longer be recoverable.
We rely substantially on our business ventures with Toshiba’s wholly owned subsidiary, Toshiba Memory Corporation (“TMC”), for the supply of NAND-flash memory and the development of NAND-flash technology, which subjects us to risks and uncertainties that could harm our business, financial condition and operating results.
Over-investment could result in excess supply, which could cause significant decreases in our product prices, significant excess, obsolete or lower of cost or net realizable value inventory write-downs or under-utilization charges, and the potential impairment of our investments in Flash Ventures.
Growth of our NAND-flash memory bit supply at a slower rate than the overall industry for an extended period of time would result in lowering our share which could limit our future opportunities and harm our financial results.
We are also contractually obligated to pay for 50% of the fixed costs of Flash Ventures regardless of whether we purchase any wafers from Flash Ventures.
In addition, we partner with TMC on the development of NAND-flash technology, including the next technology transitions of NAND-flash, as well as other non-volatile memory technology in support of Flash Ventures.


