fls.txt



item1.txt
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in the Consolidated Financial Statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“U.S.
GAAP”) have been condensed or omitted pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).
These Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10‑K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017.
The results of operations for interim periods are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for the full year.
These estimates and assumptions have been applied using methodologies that are consistent throughout the periods presented.
However, actual results could differ materially from these estimates.
2015‑11, “Inventory (Topic 330) - Simplifying the Measurement of Inventory” (“ASU 2015‑11”), which dictates that an entity should measure inventory within the scope of this update at the lower of cost and net realizable value.
These acquisitions are primarily intended to help meet the evolving needs of customers, while driving long-term growth for the Company's existing data center and client solution products over the long term.
Goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax purposes because the acquisitions were structured as asset acquisitions but accounted for as business combinations.
Revenues and earnings related to these acquisitions was not material.
The long-term portion of the warranty accrual classified in Other liabilities was $110 million and $125 million as of March 30, 2018 and June 30, 2017, respectively.
Level 2.Inputs other than Level 1 that are observable, either directly or indirectly, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.
Level 3.Inputs that are unobservable for the asset or liability and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities.
For financial instruments where the carrying value (which includes principal adjusted for any unamortized issuance costs, and discounts or premiums) differs from fair value (which is based on quoted market prices), the following table represents the related carrying value and fair value for each of the Company’s outstanding financial instruments.
The Company reports these investments under the cost method of accounting as it does not have a significant influence over the operations of these investees.


item2.txt
Unless otherwise indicated, references herein to specific years and quarters are to our fiscal years and fiscal quarters.
As used herein, the terms “we,” “us,” “our,” and the “Company” refer to Western Digital Corporation and its subsidiaries.
Our fiscal year ends on the Friday nearest to June 30 and typically consists of 52 weeks.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
The risks and uncertainties discussed below update and supersede the risks and uncertainties previously disclosed in Part II, Item 1A of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended December 29, 2017.
•Volatile Demand and Supplier Risk.
Our direct and indirect customers may delay or reduce their purchases of our products and systems containing our products.
If demand for our products slows as a result of a deterioration in economic conditions, we may undertake restructuring activities to realign our cost structure with softening demand.
We extend credit and payment terms to some of our customers.
As a result of the continued uncertainty and volatility in global economic conditions, however, we may find it increasingly difficult to be able to insure these accounts receivable.
We could suffer significant losses if a customer whose accounts receivable we have not insured, or have underinsured, fails to pay us on their accounts receivable balances.
We test goodwill for impairment annually as of the first day of our fourth quarter and at other times if events have occurred or circumstances exist that indicate the carrying value of goodwill may no longer be recoverable.
We rely substantially on our business ventures with Toshiba’s wholly owned subsidiary, Toshiba Memory Corporation (“TMC”), for the supply of NAND-flash memory and the development of NAND-flash technology, which subjects us to risks and uncertainties that could harm our business, financial condition and operating results.
Over-investment could result in excess supply, which could cause significant decreases in our product prices, significant excess, obsolete or lower of cost or net realizable value inventory write-downs or under-utilization charges, and the potential impairment of our investments in Flash Ventures.
Growth of our NAND-flash memory bit supply at a slower rate than the overall industry for an extended period of time would result in lowering our share, which could limit our future opportunities and harm our financial results.


