ITEM 2.MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS



SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS



This report contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All statements other than statements of historical fact may be forward-looking statements. You can identify these and other forward-looking statements by the use of words such as “may,” “will,” “could,” “would,” “should,” “expects,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “relies,” “believes,” “estimates,” “predicts,” “intends,” “potential,” “continue,” “thinks,” “seeks,” or the negative of such terms, or other comparable terminology. Forward-looking statements also include the assumptions underlying or relating to any of the foregoing statements. Such forward-looking statements include, among others, forecasts of the future results of our operations, including profitability; orders for our products and capital equipment generally; sales of semiconductors; the investments by our customers in advanced technologies and new materials; the allocation of capital spending by our customers (and, in particular, the percentage of spending that our customers allocate to process control); growth of revenue in the semiconductor industry, the semiconductor capital equipment industry and our business; technological trends in the semiconductor industry; future developments or trends in the global capital and financial markets; our future product offerings and product features; the success and market acceptance of new products; timing of shipment of backlog; our future product shipments and product and service revenues; our future gross margins; our future research and development expenses and selling, general and administrative expenses; our ability to successfully maintain cost discipline; international sales and operations; our ability to maintain or improve our existing competitive position; success of our product offerings; creation and funding of programs for research and development; attraction and retention of employees; results of our investment in leading edge technologies; the effects of hedging transactions; the effect of the sale of trade receivables and promissory notes from customers; our future effective income tax rate; our recognition of tax benefits; future payments of dividends to our stockholders; the completion of any acquisitions of third parties, or the technology or assets thereof; benefits received from any acquisitions and development of acquired technologies; sufficiency of our existing cash balance, investments, cash generated from operations and the unfunded portion of our revolving line of credit under a Credit Agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) to meet our operating and working capital requirements, including debt service and payment thereof; future dividends, and stock repurchases; our compliance with the financial covenants under the Credit Agreement; the adoption of new accounting pronouncements including ASC 606; the tax liabilities resulting from the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act; and our repayment of our outstanding indebtedness.



Our actual results may differ significantly from those projected in the forward-looking statements in this report. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Part II, Item 1A, “Risk Factors” in this report as well as in Item 1, “Business” and Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2018, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 6, 2018. You should carefully review these risks and also review the risks described in other documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, and we expressly assume no obligation and do not intend to update the forward-looking statements in this report after the date hereof.



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY



We are a leading supplier of process control and yield management solutions for the semiconductor and related nanoelectronics industries. Our broad portfolio of inspection and metrology products, and related service, software and other offerings primarily supports integrated circuit (“IC” or “chip”) manufacturers throughout the entire semiconductor fabrication process, from research and development to final volume production. We provide leading edge equipment, software and support that enable IC manufacturers to identify, resolve and manage significant advanced technology manufacturing process challenges and obtain higher finished product yields at lower overall cost. In addition to serving the semiconductor industry, we also provide a range of technology solutions to a number of other high technology industries, including advanced packaging, light emitting diode (“LED”), power devices, compound semiconductor, and data storage industries, as well as general materials research.



Our products and services are used by the vast majority of bare wafer, IC, lithography reticle (“reticle” or “mask”) and hard disk drive manufacturers around the world. Our products, services and expertise are used by our customers to measure, detect, analyze and resolve critical product defects that arise in that environment in order to control nanometric level manufacturing processes. 



Our revenues are driven largely by our customers’ spending on capital equipment and related maintenance services necessary to support key transitions in their underlying product technologies, or to increase their production volumes in response to market demand or expansion plans. Our semiconductor customers generally operate in one or more of the three major semiconductor markets - memory, foundry and logic. All three of these markets are characterized by rapid technological changes and sudden shifts in end-user demand, which influence the level and pattern of our customers’ spending on our products and services. Although capital spending in all three semiconductor markets has historically been very cyclical, the demand for more advanced and lower cost chips used in a growing number of consumer electronics, communications, data processing, and industrial and automotive products has resulted over the long term in a favorable demand environment for our process control and yield management solutions, particularly in the foundry and logic markets, which have higher levels of process control adoption than the memory market. 



Through the acquisition of Orbotech, Ltd. (“Orbotech”), we have expended our reach in the electronics value chain to include technologically advanced, yield-enhancing and process-enabling solutions to address various manufacturing stages of Printed Circuit Boards (“PCB”), Flat Panel Displays (“FPD”), Specialty Semiconductor Devices (“SD”) and other electronic components. The products include Automated Optical Inspection (“AOI”), Automated Optical Shaping (“AOS”), Direct Imaging (“DI”), additive printing, laser drilling, laser plotters, Computer aided manufacturing (“CAM”) and engineering solutions for PCB and additional adjacent electronics component manufacturing, as well as AOI, test, repair and process monitoring systems for FPD manufacturing and vacuum process tools for etch, Physical Vapor Deposition (“PVD”), Molecular Vapor Deposition (“MVD”) and Chemical Vapor Deposition (“CVD”) solutions for SD manufacturing.



In our newly acquired Orbotech business, consumer end markets have been experiencing a fundamental shift in technology complexity, driven primarily by the proliferation of high-end mobile devices and automotive devices, as well as by the demand for large area FPDs such as large-size LCD televisions and OLED displays. The shift towards 5G connectivity and the fast-paced growth of the Internet of Things (“IoT”) services is expected to continue to further accelerate this shift as more devices become connected and dependent upon other electronic devices.



As a supplier to the global semiconductor, semiconductor-related and electronics industries, our customer base continues to become more highly concentrated over time, thereby increasing the potential impact of a sudden change in capital spending by a major customer on our revenues and profitability. As our customer base becomes increasingly more concentrated, large orders from a relatively limited number of customers account for a substantial portion of our sales, which potentially exposes us to more volatility for revenues and earnings. In the global semiconductor and electronics related industries, China is emerging as a major region for manufacturing of logic and memory chips, adding to its role as the world’s largest consumer of ICs. Additionally, a significant portion of global FPD and PCB manufacturing has migrated to China. Government initiatives are propelling China to expand its domestic manufacturing capacity and attracting semiconductor manufacturers from Taiwan, Korea, Japan and the US. China is currently seen as an important long-term growth region for the semiconductor and electronics capital equipment sector. We are also subject to the cyclical capital spending that has historically characterized the semiconductor, semiconductor-related and electronics industries. The timing, length, intensity and volatility of the capacity-oriented capital spending cycles of our customers are unpredictable. 







The demand for our products and our revenue levels are driven by our customers’ needs to solve the process challenges that they face as they adopt new technologies required to fabricate advanced ICs that are incorporated into sophisticated mobile devices. Our customers continuously seek to increase yields and enhance the efficiency of their manufacturing processes, including by improving their manufacturing, inspection, testing and repair capabilities.



Our view of the current wafer fab equipment demand climate is aligned with consensus industry analyst expectations for the calendar year 2019, which reflects a decline in capital equipment spending by memory customers. In contrast to the memory business, capital equipment spending by foundry and logic customers at the leading edge has begun to ramp, and the momentum is expected to continue in calendar year 2019. We have already seen our mix of business begin to shift toward increased purchases by logic and foundry customers as a percentage of total sales, and we expect spending from these customers to continue to remain strong. Because of a more diversified semiconductor device-end demand, and disciplined capacity planning by wafer fab equipment customers, we believe the long-term growth dynamics for the industry remain strong. While manufacturers of PCBs, FPDs, SDs and other electronic components create different products for diverse end-markets, they share similar production challenges in an increasingly competitive environment.















Acquisition of Orbotech, Ltd.



On February 20, 2019, we completed the acquisition of Orbotech, Ltd. (“Orbotech”) for total consideration of approximately $3.26 billion. Orbotech’s core business enables electronic device manufacturers to inspect, test and measure printed circuit boards and flat panel displays to verify their quality; pattern electronic circuitry on substrate and perform three-dimensional shaping of metalized circuits on multiple surfaces; and utilize advanced vacuum deposition and etching process in semiconductor device and semiconductor manufacturing and to perform laser drilling of electronic substrates. For additional details on the financial statement impacts of the Orbotech acquisition, refer to Note 6 “Business Combinations” to the condensed consolidated financial statements.



In addition, our Board of Directors has authorized a share repurchase of up to $2.00 billion of our common stock, reflecting an increase from $1.00 billion upon the close of the Orbotech Acquisition. We raised approximately $1.20 billion in new long-term debt financing to partially refinance our existing debt, to repurchase shares and for general corporate purposes. For additional details, refer to Note 8, “Debt”, and Note 10, “Stock Repurchase Program” to the condensed consolidated financial statements.



CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND POLICIES



The preparation of our condensed consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions in applying our accounting policies that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base these estimates and assumptions on historical experience and evaluate them on an ongoing basis to ensure that they remain reasonable under current conditions. Actual results could differ from those estimates. We discuss the development and selection of the critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors on a quarterly basis, and the Audit Committee has reviewed our related disclosure in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 



We updated our accounting policies for Revenue Recognition, Business Combinations, Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income (“GILTI”), and Derivative Financial Instruments. There have been no other material changes in our critical accounting estimates and policies since our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018. Refer to Note 1 “Basis of Presentation” to the condensed consolidated financial statements for additional details. In addition, please refer to Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended June 30, 2018 for a more complete discussion of our critical accounting policies and estimates.



Recent Accounting Pronouncements



For a description of recent accounting pronouncements, including those recently adopted and the expected dates of adoption as well as estimated effects, if any, on our condensed consolidated financial statements of those not yet adopted, see Note 1, “Basis of Presentation” to the condensed consolidated financial statements for additional details.



RESULTS OF OPERATIONS



On July 1, 2018, we adopted ASC 606 using the modified retrospective transition approach. Results for reporting periods beginning after June 30, 2018 are presented under ASC 606, while prior period amounts are presented under legacy guidance. For additional details, refer to Note 2 “Revenue” to the condensed consolidated financial statements. 



Revenues and Gross Margin







Product revenues



Our business is affected by the concentration of our customer base and our customers’ capital equipment procurement patterns as a result of their investment plans. Our product revenues in any particular period are significantly impacted by the amount of new orders that we receive during that period and, depending upon the duration of manufacturing and installation cycles, in the preceding period. 



Product revenue decreased during the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the three months ended December 31, 2018 and March 31, 2018, primarily due to lower product shipments to customers in the memory business, partially offset by $125.8 million in product revenue from our newly acquired Orbotech business.



Product revenues increased during the nine months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the nine months ended March 31, 2018, primarily due to a strong demand from our customers in the wafer inspection business, $125.8 million in product revenue from our newly acquired Orbotech business, and a favorable impact from the adoption of ASC 606 due to our assessment of timing of transfer of control, partially offset by a lower products shipments to customers in the memory business.



Service revenues



Service revenues are generated from product maintenance and support services, as well as billable time and material service calls made to our customers. The amount of our service revenues is typically a function of the number of systems installed at our customers’ sites and the utilization of those systems, but it is also impacted by other factors, such as our rate of service contract renewals, the types of systems being serviced and fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. 



Service revenues increased during the each of comparative periods presented, primarily due to the impact of adoption of ASC 606 whereby revenue from the standard warranty represents a separate performance obligation and included in our services revenue, and an increase of $35.5 million in service revenue from our newly acquired Orbotech business.



Revenues by region







A significant portion of our revenues continue to be generated in Asia, where a substantial portion of the world’s semiconductor manufacturing capacity is located, and we expect that trend to continue. 



Gross margin



Our gross margin fluctuates with revenue levels and product mix and is affected by variations in costs related to manufacturing and servicing our products, including our ability to scale our operations efficiently and effectively in response to prevailing business conditions.







Changes in gross margin percentage driven by revenue volume of products and services reflect our ability to leverage existing infrastructure to generate higher revenues. It also includes the effect of fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, average customer pricing and customer revenue deferrals associated with volume purchase agreements. Changes in gross margin percentage from mix of products and services sold reflect the impact of changes in the composition within product and service offerings. Changes in gross margin percentage from manufacturing labor, overhead and efficiencies reflect our ability to manage costs and drive productivity as we scale our manufacturing activity to respond to customer requirements; this includes the impact of capacity utilization, use of overtime and variability of cost structure. Changes in gross margin percentage from other service and manufacturing costs include the impact of customer support costs, including the efficiencies with which we deliver services to our customers, and the effectiveness with which we manage our production plans and inventory risk. 



Our gross margin during the three months ended March 31, 2019 decreased compared to the three months ended December 31, 2018 and March 31, 2018, primarily due to a lower revenue volume of products and services and an increase in service and manufacturing costs, partially offset by a favorable mix of products and services sold, as well as the acquisition of Orbotech which historically had lower product gross margins. 



Our gross margin during the nine months ended March 31, 2019 decreased compared to the nine months ended March 31, 2018, primarily due to an increase in service and manufacturing costs, a lower revenue volume of products and services, partially offset by a favorable mix of products and services sold, as well as the acquisition of Orbotech which historically had lower product gross margins. 































Interest Expense and Other Expense (Income), Net







Interest expense during the three months ended March 31, 2019 increased compared to the three months ended December 31, 2018, and December 31, 2017, primarily due to interest on the $1.20 billion Senior Notes issued in March 2019. The decrease in interest expense during the nine months ended March 31, 2019 compared the nine months ended March 31, 2018 was primarily due to lower outstanding debt during the majority of the 2019 period.



Other expense (income), net is comprised primarily of realized gains or losses on sales of marketable securities, gains or losses from revaluations of certain foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities as well as foreign currency contracts, and interest-related accruals (such as interest and penalty accruals related to our tax obligations) and interest income earned on our invested cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities.



The change in other expense (income), net during the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the three months ended December 31, 2018 was primarily due to a decrease in interest accruals related to uncertain tax positions of $1.3 million partially offset by an increase in interest income of $1.2 million. 



The increase in other expense (income), net during the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018 was primarily due lower net foreign currency loss of $1.8 million.



The increase in other expense (income), net during the nine months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the nine months ended March 31, 2018 was primarily due to an increase in interest income of $7.1 million and a higher net foreign currency gain of $3.3 million. 



Provision for Income Taxes













Our future effective income tax rate depends on various factors, such as tax legislation, the geographic composition of our pre-tax income, the amount of our pre-tax income as business activities fluctuate, non-deductible expenses incurred in connection with acquisitions, research and development credits as a percentage of aggregate pre-tax income, non-taxable or non-deductible increases or decreases in the assets held within our Executive Deferred Savings Plan, the tax effects of employee stock activity and the effectiveness of our tax planning strategies.



In the normal course of business, we are subject to examination by tax authorities throughout the world. We are under United States federal income tax examination for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2016. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The results of an audit or litigation could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made.



In May 2017, Orbotech received an assessment from the ITA with respect to its fiscal years 2012 through 2014 (the “Assessment”, and the “Audit Period”, respectively), for an aggregate amount of tax against the Company, after offsetting all NOLs for tax purposes available through the end of 2014, of approximately NIS 218 million (approximately $65 million as of March 31, 2019), which amount includes related interest and linkage differentials to the Israeli consumer price index (as of date of the Assessment). The Company believes its recorded unrecognized tax benefits are sufficient to cover the resolution of the Assessment. 



On August 31, 2018, Orbotech filed an objection in respect of the tax assessment (the “Objection”). Orbotech is now in the process of the second stage, in which the claims raised by it in the Objection are examined by different personnel at the ITA. In addition, the ITA can examine additional items and may assess additional amounts in the second stage. The second stage must be completed within one year of when the Objection was filed. 



LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES







As of March 31, 2019, our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaled $1.90 billion, which represents a decrease of $983.1 million from June 30, 2018. The decrease is mainly due to $1.82 billion paid to fund Orbotech and other business acquisitions, stock repurchases of $750.2 million, and cash used for payment of dividends and dividend equivalents of $350.9 million, partially offset by the net proceeds of our 2019 Senior Notes of $1.19 billion and our cash generated from operations and net proceeds from marketable securities transactions.



 As of March 31, 2019, $554.1 million of our $1.90 billion of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were held by our foreign subsidiaries and branch offices. We currently intend to indefinitely reinvest $392.4 million of the cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities held by our foreign subsidiaries. If, however, a portion of these funds were to be repatriated to the United States, we would be required to accrue and pay state and foreign taxes of approximately 1%-22% of the funds repatriated. The amount of taxes due will depend on the amount and manner of the repatriation, as well as the location from which the funds are repatriated. We have accrued state and foreign tax on the remaining cash of $161.6 million of the $554.1 million held by our foreign subsidiaries and branch offices. As such, these funds can be returned to the U.S. without accruing any additional U.S. tax expense.





During the three months ended March 31, 2019, our Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.75 per share on our outstanding common stock, which was paid on March 1, 2019 to our stockholders of record as of the close of business on February 15, 2019. During the same period in fiscal year 2018, our Board of Directors declared and paid a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.59 per share on our outstanding common stock. The total amount of regular quarterly cash dividends and dividend equivalents paid during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 was $113.6 million and $92.1 million, respectively. The total amount of regular quarterly cash dividends and dividend equivalents paid during the nine months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 was $348.0 million and $278.8 million, respectively. The amount of accrued dividend equivalents payable for regular quarterly cash dividends on unvested restricted stock units (RSUs) with dividend equivalent rights as of March 31, 2019 and June 30, 2018 was $6.5 million and $6.7 million, respectively. These amounts will be paid upon vesting of the underlying unvested RSU as described in Note 9, “Equity, Long-term Incentive Compensation Plans and Non-Controlling Interest” to the condensed consolidated financial statements.



On November 19, 2014, our Board of Directors declared a special cash dividend of $16.50 per share on our outstanding common stock. The declaration and payment of the special cash dividend was part of our leveraged recapitalization transaction under which the special cash dividend was financed through a combination of existing cash and proceeds from the debt financing disclosed in Note 8 “Debt” to the condensed consolidated financial statements that was completed during the three months ended December 31, 2014. The total amount of the special cash dividend accrued by us at the declaration date was substantially paid out during the three months ended December 31, 2014, except for the aggregate special cash dividend of $43.0 million that was accrued for the unvested RSUs and to be paid when such underlying unvested RSUs vest. During the second quarter of fiscal 2019, all of the special cash dividends accrued with respect to outstanding RSUs were vested and paid in full. During the nine months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, the total special cash dividends paid with respect to vested RSUs were $2.9 million and $6.3 million, respectively. Other than the special cash dividend declared during the three months ended December 31, 2014, we historically have not declared any special cash dividends. For details of the special cash dividend, refer to Note 8 “Equity and Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plans,” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018. 





The shares repurchased under our stock repurchase program have reduced our basic and diluted weighted-average shares outstanding for the nine months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018. The stock repurchase program is intended, in part, to offset shares issued in connection with the purchases under our ESPP program and the vesting of employee restricted stock units. 







•An increase in accounts payable payments of approximately $94.0 million; 



•An increase in payments for employee-related expenses of approximately $22.0 million; 



•An increase in payments for merger and acquisition related expenses, mostly related to the Orbotech acquisition of approximately $55.0 million.





◦An increase in collections of approximately $55.0 million mainly driven by higher shipments; 



◦An increase in interest income of approximately $5.0 million mainly driven by higher interest rates; 



◦A decrease in income tax payments of approximately $62.0 million;



◦A decrease in cash-long term incentives of approximately $11.0 million; 



◦A decrease in debt interest payments of approximately $5.0 million; and 



◦A decrease in net other tax payments of approximately $3.0 million.





Net cash used by investing activities during the nine months ended March 31, 2019 was $1.21 billion compared to cash provided by investing activities of $164.8 million during the nine months ended March 31, 2018. This change was mainly due to $1.82 billion paid to fund Orbotech and other acquisitions, partially offset by cash received from sale and maturity of marketable securities of $679.9 million during the nine months ended March 31, 2019, compared to $215.9 million during the nine months ended March 31, 2018.





Net cash provided by financing activities during the nine months ended March 31, 2019 was $72.1 million compared to cash used by financing activities of $928.7 million during the nine months ended March 31, 2018. This change was mainly impacted by net proceeds from the issuance of Senior Notes in March 2019 of $1.19 billion and lower net payments of the revolving credit facility, partially offset by







In March 2019 and November 2014, we issued $1.20 billion and $2.50 billion, respectively (each a “2019 Senior Notes”, a “2014 Senior Notes”, and collectively the “Senior Notes”), aggregate principal amount of senior, unsecured long-term notes. 





The original discounts on the 2019 Senior Notes and the 2014 Senior Notes amounted to $6.7 million and $4.0 million, respectively, and are being amortized over the life of the debt. Interest is payable semi-annually on May 1 and November 1 of each year for the 2014 Senior Notes and semi-annually on March 15 and September 15 of each year for the 2019 Senior Notes. The indenture for the Senior Notes (the “Indenture”) includes covenants that limit our ability to grant liens on our facilities and enter into sale and leaseback transactions, subject to certain allowances under which certain sale and leaseback transactions are not restricted. 





As of March 31, 2019, we were in compliance with all of our covenants under the Indenture associated with the Senior Notes. 





In November 2017, we entered into a Credit Agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) providing for a $750.0 million five-year unsecured Revolving Credit Facility (the “Revolving Credit Facility”), which replaced our prior Credit Facility. Subject to the terms of the Credit Agreement, the Revolving Credit Facility may be increased in an amount up to $250.0 million in the aggregate. In November 2018, we entered into an Incremental Facility, Extension and Amendment Agreement (the “Amendment”), which amends the Credit Agreement to (a) extend the Maturity Date (the “Maturity Date”) from November 30, 2022 to November 30, 2023, (b) increase the total commitment by $250.0 million and (c) effect certain other amendments to the Credit Agreement as set forth in the Amendment. After giving effect to the Amendment, the total commitments under the Credit Agreement are $1.00 billion. During the third quarter of the fiscal year ending June 30, 2019, we made borrowings of $900.0 million from the Revolving Credit Facility as part of the funding for the Orbotech Acquisition, which were paid in full in the same quarter. As of March 31, 2019, we had no outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility.



We may borrow, repay and reborrow funds under the Revolving Credit Facility until the Maturity Date, at which time such Revolving Credit Facility will terminate, and all outstanding loans under such facility, together with all accrued and unpaid interest, must be repaid. We may prepay outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility at any time without a prepayment penalty. 





The Revolving Credit Facility requires us to maintain an interest expense coverage ratio as described in the Credit Agreement, on a quarterly basis, covering the trailing four consecutive fiscal quarters of no less than 3.50 to 1.00. In addition, we are required to maintain the maximum leverage ratio as described in the Credit Agreement, on a quarterly basis of 3.00 to 1.00, covering the trailing four consecutive fiscal quarters for each fiscal quarter, which can be increased to 4.00 to 1.00 for a period of time in connection with a material acquisition or a series of material acquisitions. As of March 31, 2019, we elected to increase the maximum allowed leverage ratio to 4.00 to 1.00 following the Orbotech Acquisition.



We were in compliance with all covenants under the Credit Agreement as of March 31, 2019 (the interest expense coverage ratio was 16.07 to 1.00 and the leverage ratio was 1.71 to 1.00). Considering our current liquidity position, short-term financial forecasts and ability to prepay the Revolving Credit Facility, if necessary, we expect to continue to be in compliance with our financial covenants at the end of our fiscal year ending June 30, 2019.

































We have adopted a cash-based long-term incentive (“Cash LTI”) program for many of our employees as part of our employee compensation program. Cash LTI awards issued to employees under the Cash Long-Term Incentive Plan (“Cash LTI Plan”) generally vest in three or four equal installments. For additional details, refer to Note 9, “Equity, Long-term Incentive Compensation Plans and Non-Controlling Interest,” to the condensed consolidated financial statements.



We have agreements with financial institutions to sell certain of our trade receivables and promissory notes from customers without recourse. In addition, we periodically sell certain letters of credit (“LCs”), without recourse, received from customers in payment for goods and services.







Factoring and LC fees for the sale of certain trade receivables were recorded in other expense (income), net and were not material for the periods presented. 



We maintain guarantee arrangements available through various financial institutions for up to $45.1 million, of which $38.7 million had been issued as of March 31, 2019, primarily to fund guarantees to customs authorities for VAT and other operating requirements of our subsidiaries in Europe, Israel, and Asia. 





Working capital was $2.74 billion as of March 31, 2019, which is a decrease of $593.0 million compared to our working capital of $3.33 billion as of June 30, 2018. As of March 31, 2019, our principal sources of liquidity consisted of $1.90 billion of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. Our liquidity may be affected by many factors, some of which are based on the normal ongoing operations of the business, spending for business acquisitions, and other factors such as uncertainty in the global and regional economies and the semiconductor equipment industries. Although cash requirements will fluctuate based on the timing and extent of these factors, we believe that cash generated from operations, together with the liquidity provided by existing cash and cash equivalents balances and our $1.00 billion Revolving Credit Facility, will be sufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements associated with working capital needs, capital expenditures, cash dividends, stock repurchases and other contractual obligations, including repayment of outstanding debt, for at least the next 12 months. 







Factors that can affect our credit ratings include changes in our operating performance, the economic environment, conditions in the semiconductor and semiconductor equipment industries, our financial position, material acquisitions and changes in our business strategy.



Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements



As of March 31, 2019, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S-K, that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial position, changes in financial condition, revenues and expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources that are material to investors. Refer to Note 14 “Commitments and contingencies” to the condensed consolidated financial statements for information related to indemnification obligations. 



ITEM 2.UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS



Equity Repurchase Plans











