fls.txt
We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations and projections about future events.


item1.txt
We determine if an arrangement is a lease at its inception.
We generally use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at the lease commencement date in determining the present value of future payments, because the implicit rate of the lease is generally not known.
We amortize our ROU assets as operating lease expense generally on a straight-line basis over the lease term and classify both the lease amortization and imputed interest as operating expenses.
We have lease agreements with lease and non-lease components, and in such cases, we generally account for the components as a single lease component.
For the three months ended August 31, 2019, operating lease expenses totaled $148 million, net of sublease income of $4 million, and cash paid for amounts included in the measurement of operating lease liabilities was $148 million.
We recorded ROU assets of $2.2 billion in exchange for operating lease obligations during the three months ended August 31, 2019, which included $1.9 billion for operating leases existing on June 1, 2019 that were recognized upon our initial adoption of Topic 842 and $211 million for operating leases that were contracted during the first quarter of fiscal 2020.
As of August 31, 2019, the weighted average remaining lease term for operating leases was approximately five years, and the weighted average discount rate for operating leases was 3.1%.
Trade receivables, net of allowance for doubtful accounts, and deferred revenues are reported net of related uncollected deferred revenues in our condensed consolidated balance sheets as of August 31, 2019 and May 31, 2019.
The amount of revenues recognized during each of the three months ended August 31, 2019 and 2018 that were included in the opening deferred revenues balance as of May 31, 2019 and 2018 were each approximately $3.5 billion.
Revenues recognized from performance obligations satisfied in prior periods and impairment losses recognized on our receivables were immaterial in each of the three months ended August 31, 2019 and 2018.
Restricted cash that was included within cash and cash equivalents as presented within our condensed consolidated balance sheets as of August 31, 2019 and May 31, 2019 and our condensed consolidated statements of cash flows for the three months ended August 31, 2019 and 2018 was nominal.
Acquisition related and other expenses primarily consist of personnel related costs for transitional and certain other employees, integration related professional services, certain business combination adjustments including adjustments after the measurement period has ended and certain other operating items, net.
Based on the trading prices of the $54.3 billion and $56.1 billion of senior notes and the related fair value hedges that we had outstanding as of August 31, 2019 and May 31, 2019, respectively, the estimated fair values of the senior notes and the related fair value hedges using Level 2 inputs at August 31, 2019 and May 31, 2019 were $59.8 billion and $58.4 billion, respectively.
Amounts also include any changes in intangible asset balances for the periods presented that resulted from foreign currency translations.
Pursuant to our business combinations accounting policy, we recorded goodwill adjustments for the effects on goodwill of changes to net assets acquired during the period that such a change is identified, provided that any such change is within the measurement period (up to one year from the date of the acquisition).


item2.txt
We expect these trends to continue.
Each hardware product and its related software, such as an operating system or firmware, are highly interdependent and interrelated and are accounted for as a combined performance obligation.
transferred to the customer.
We expect to make investments in research and development to improve existing hardware products and services and to develop new hardware products and services.
Our selective and active acquisition program is another important element of our corporate strategy.
Note 2 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report provides additional information related to our recent acquisitions.
We estimate the financial impact of any potential acquisition with regard to earnings, operating margin, cash flow and return on invested capital targets before deciding to move forward with an acquisition.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2020, there were no significant changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates.
The financial reporting for our three businesses that is presented below is presented in a manner that is consistent with that used by our CODMs.
In order to provide a framework for assessing how our underlying businesses performed excluding the effects of foreign currency rate fluctuations, we compare the percent change in the results from one period to another period in this Quarterly Report using constant currency disclosure.
To present this information, current and comparative prior period results for entities reporting in currencies other than U.S.
Dollars are converted into U.S.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 1A.


