fls.txt
We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations and projections about future events.


item1.txt
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
However, we believe that the disclosures herein are adequate to ensure the information presented is not misleading.
Impacts of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 The comparability of our operating results in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the corresponding prior year period was impacted by the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the Tax Act), which was effective for us starting in our third quarter of fiscal 2018.
Cloud services revenues include revenues from Oracle Cloud Software-as-a-Service (SaaS), Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS) and Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS) offerings (collectively, Oracle Cloud Services), which deliver applications, platform and infrastructure technologies, respectively, via cloud-based deployment models that we develop functionality for, provide unspecified updates and enhancements for, host, manage and support and that customers access by entering into a subscription agreement with us for a stated period.
management, maintenance and security services for customer cloud-based, on-premise or other IT infrastructure for a fee for a stated term.
Cloud license and on-premise license revenues primarily represent amounts earned from granting customers licenses to use our database, middleware, application and industry-specific software products which our customers use for cloud-based, on-premise and other IT environments.
Hardware support contracts are generally priced as a percentage of the net hardware products fees.
We record an unbilled receivable which is included within accounts receivable on our condensed consolidated balance sheets, when revenue is recognized prior to invoicing.
We record deferred revenues on our condensed consolidated balance sheets when revenues are recognized subsequent to cash collection for an invoice.
Our standard payment terms are generally net 30 days but may vary.
Invoices for license support and hardware support contracts are generally invoiced annually in advance.
The transaction price for a contract that is financed through our financing division is adjusted to reflect the time value of money and interest revenue is recorded as a component of non-operating income, net within our condensed consolidated statements of operations based on market rates in the country in which the transaction is being financed.
which have historically been and are expected to continue to be insignificant.
Revenues from cloud services provided on a subscription basis are generally recognized ratably over the contractual period that the services are delivered, beginning on the date our service is made available to our customers.


item2.txt
We market and sell our offerings globally to businesses of many sizes, government agencies, educational institutions and resellers with a worldwide sales force positioned to offer the combinations that best meet customer needs.
Our cloud and license line of business, which represented 81% of our total revenues in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, markets, sells and delivers a broad spectrum of applications, platform and infrastructure technologies through our cloud and license offerings.
Our cloud license and on-premise license transactions are generally perpetual in nature and are generally recognized upfront at the point in time when the software is made available to the customer to download and use.
We expect these trends to continue.
contributions from our acquisitions.
We believe all of these factors should contribute to future growth in our cloud and license revenues, which should enable us to continue to make investments in research and development to develop and improve our cloud and license products and services.
The historical upward trend of our cloud license and on-premise license revenues over the course of the four quarters within a particular fiscal year is primarily due to the addition of new cloud services and license support contracts to the customer contract base; the renewal of existing customers’ cloud services and license support contracts over the course of each fiscal year; and the historical upward trend of our cloud license and on-premise license revenues over those four quarterly periods.
Our hardware business, which represented 10% of our total revenues in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, provides a broad selection of hardware products and hardware-related software products including Oracle Engineered Systems, servers, storage, industry-specific hardware, operating systems, virtualization, management and other hardware related software, and related hardware support.
We expect to make investments in research and development to improve existing hardware products and services and to develop new hardware products and services.
Our hardware support offerings can also include product repairs, maintenance services and technical support services.
Our selective and active acquisition program is another important element of our corporate strategy.


item3.txt



part2.txt
Item 1A.


