fls.txt
We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations and projections about future events.


item1.txt
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
We have prepared the condensed consolidated financial statements included herein pursuant to the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
However, we believe that the disclosures herein are adequate to ensure the information presented is not misleading.
retrospective basis through a cumulative-effect adjustment that resulted in a $110 million decrease in prepaid assets with the corresponding offset to retained earnings.
Impacts of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 The comparability of our operating results in the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2019 compared to the corresponding prior year periods was impacted by the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the Tax Act), which was effective for us starting in our third quarter of fiscal 2018.
Cloud services revenues include revenues from Oracle Cloud Software-as-a-Service (SaaS), Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS) and Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS) offerings (collectively, Oracle Cloud Services), which deliver applications, platform and infrastructure technologies, respectively, via cloud-based deployment models that we develop functionality for, provide unspecified updates and enhancements for, host, manage and support and that customers access by entering into a subscription agreement with us for a stated period.
management, maintenance and security services for customer cloud-based, on-premise or other IT infrastructure for a fee for a stated term.
Cloud license and on-premise license revenues primarily represent amounts earned from granting customers licenses to use our database, middleware, application and industry-specific software products which our customers use for cloud-based, on-premise and other IT environments.
Hardware support contracts are generally priced as a percentage of the net hardware products fees.
Education services include instructor-led, media-based and internet-based training in the use of our cloud, software and hardware products.
recognition of revenues when, or as, the contractual performance obligations are satisfied.
We record an unbilled receivable, which is included within accounts receivable on our condensed consolidated balance sheets, when revenue is recognized prior to invoicing.
We record deferred revenues on our condensed consolidated balance sheets when revenues are recognized subsequent to cash collection for an invoice.
Our standard payment terms are generally net 30 days but may vary.


item2.txt
Our cloud and license line of business, which represented 82% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis, markets, sells and delivers a broad spectrum of applications, platform and infrastructure technologies through our cloud and license offerings.
cloud services revenues, which includes revenues from Oracle Cloud Software-as-a-Service (SaaS), Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS) and Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS) offerings (collectively, Oracle Cloud Services), which provide customers access to applications, platform and infrastructure technologies via cloud-based deployment models that Oracle develops, provides unspecified updates and enhancements for, hosts, manages and supports and that customers access by entering into a subscription agreement with us for a stated period.
Our cloud license and on-premise license transactions are generally perpetual in nature and are generally recognized upfront at the point in time when the software is made available to the customer to download and use.
Revenues from usage-based royalty arrangements for distinct cloud licenses and on-premise licenses are recognized at the point in time when the software end user usage occurs.
Cloud license and on-premise license customers have the option to purchase license support contracts, as described above.
In recent periods, customer demand has increased for our Oracle Cloud Services.
To address customer demand and enable customer choice, we have introduced certain programs for customers to pivot their applications, platform and infrastructure licenses and license support to the Oracle Cloud for new deployments and to migrate to and expand with the Oracle Cloud for their existing workloads.
We expect these trends to continue.
contributions from our acquisitions.
We believe all of these factors should contribute to future growth in our cloud and license revenues, which should enable us to continue to make investments in research and development to develop and improve our cloud and license products and services.
Our cloud and license business’ margin has historically trended upward over the course of the four quarters within a particular fiscal year due to the historical upward trend of our cloud license and on-premise license revenues over those quarterly periods and because the majority of our costs for this business are generally fixed in the short term.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 1A.


