fls.txt
We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations and projections about future events.


item1.txt
We believe that all necessary adjustments, which consisted only of normal recurring items, have been included in the accompanying financial statements to present fairly the results of the interim periods.
We determine if an arrangement is a lease at its inception.
We generally use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at the lease commencement date in determining the present value of future payments, because the implicit rate of the lease is generally not known.
We amortize our ROU assets as operating lease expense generally on a straight-line basis over the lease term and classify both the lease amortization and imputed interest as operating expenses.
We have lease agreements with lease and non-lease components, and in such cases, we generally account for the components as a single lease component.
Cash paid for amounts included in the measurement of operating lease liabilities was $156 million and $304 million for three and six months ended November 30, 2019, respectively.
We recorded ROU assets of $2.2 billion in exchange for operating lease obligations during the six months ended November 30, 2019, which included $1.9 billion for operating leases existing on June 1, 2019 that were recognized upon our initial adoption of Topic 842 and $301 million for operating leases that were contracted during the first half of fiscal 2020.
As of November 30, 2019, the weighted average remaining lease term for operating leases was approximately five years and the weighted average discount rate used for calculating operating lease obligations was 3.2%.
Trade receivables, net of allowance for doubtful accounts, and deferred revenues are reported net of related uncollected deferred revenues in our condensed consolidated balance sheets as of November 30, 2019 and May 31, 2019.
The revenues recognized during the six months ended November 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, that were included in the opening deferred revenues balance as of May 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, were approximately $6.2 billion during each period.
Revenues recognized from performance obligations satisfied in prior periods and impairment losses recognized on our receivables were immaterial in each of the three and six months ended November 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Restricted cash that was included within cash and cash equivalents as presented within our condensed consolidated balance sheets as of November 30, 2019 and May 31, 2019 and our condensed consolidated statements of cash flows for the six months ended November 30, 2019 and 2018 was nominal.
Acquisition related and other expenses primarily consist of personnel related costs for transitional and certain other employees, integration related professional services, certain business combination adjustments including adjustments after the measurement period has ended and certain other operating items, net.
Based on the trading prices of the $51.6 billion and $56.1 billion of senior notes and the related fair value hedges that we had outstanding as of November 30, 2019 and May 31, 2019, respectively, the estimated fair values of the senior notes and the related fair value hedges using Level 2 inputs at November 30, 2019 and May 31, 2019 were $56.6 billion and $58.4 billion, respectively.
Amounts also include any changes in intangible asset balances for the periods presented that resulted from foreign currency translations.


item2.txt
Our products and services include applications and infrastructure offerings that are delivered worldwide through a variety of flexible and interoperable IT deployment models.
These models include on‑premise deployments, cloud‑based deployments, and hybrid deployments (an approach that combines both on-premise and cloud‑based deployment) such as our Oracle Cloud at Customer offering (an instance of Oracle Cloud in a customer’s own data center).
Accordingly, we offer choice and flexibility to our customers and facilitate the product, service and deployment combinations that best suit our customers’ needs.
Our cloud and license line of business, which represented 83% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis, markets, sells and delivers a broad spectrum of applications and infrastructure technologies through our cloud and license offerings.
cloud services revenues, which provide customers access to Oracle Cloud applications and infrastructure technologies via cloud-based deployment models that Oracle develops, provides unspecified updates and enhancements for, hosts, manages and supports and that customers access by entering into a subscription agreement with us for a stated period.
Our cloud license and on‑premise license transactions are generally perpetual in nature and are generally recognized up front at the point in time when the software is made available to the customer to download and use.
Revenues from usage‑based royalty arrangements for distinct cloud licenses and on-premise licenses are recognized at the point in time when the software end user usage occurs.
Cloud license and on-premise license customers have the option to purchase and renew license support contracts, as described above.
Providing choice and flexibility to our customers as to when and how they deploy our applications and infrastructure technologies are important elements of our corporate strategy.
In recent periods, customer demand for our applications and infrastructure technologies delivered through our Oracle Cloud Services has increased.
To address customer demand and enable customer choice, we have introduced certain programs for customers to pivot their applications and infrastructure licenses and the related license support to the Oracle Cloud for new deployments and to migrate to and expand with the Oracle Cloud for their existing workloads.
We expect these trends to continue.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 1A.


