fls.txt
Forward-looking statements may be preceded by, followed by or include the words “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “seeks,” “strives,” “estimates,” “will,” “should,” “is designed to” and similar expressions.


item1.txt
We have prepared the condensed consolidated financial statements included herein pursuant to the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
We believe that all necessary adjustments, which consisted only of normal recurring items, have been included in the accompanying financial statements to present fairly the results of the interim periods.
Such reclassifications did not affect total revenues, operating income or net income (loss).
•    a $7.6 billion expense related to the application of the one-time transition tax to certain foreign subsidiary earnings that were generated prior to December 31, 2017, which expense was substantially recorded to non-current income taxes payable in our consolidated balance sheet and which corresponds to the amount we currently expect to periodically settle over an eight year period as provided by the Act; The net expense related to the enactment of the Act has been accounted for during the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018 based on provisional estimates pursuant to the SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
Restricted cash that was included within cash and cash equivalents as presented within our condensed consolidated balance sheets as of February 28, 2018 and May 31, 2017 and our condensed consolidated statements of cash flows for the nine months ended February 28, 2018 and 2017 was nominal.
Acquisition related and other expenses consist of personnel related costs and stock-based compensation for transitional and certain other employees, integration related professional services, certain business combination adjustments including certain adjustments after the measurement period has ended and certain other operating items, net.
During the first nine months of fiscal 2018, we entered into certain non-material agreements to acquire certain companies and expect these proposed acquisitions to close during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018.
The total purchase price for NetSuite was approximately $9.1 billion, which consisted of approximately $9.0 billion in cash and $78 million for the fair values of restricted stock-based awards and stock options assumed.
In allocating the purchase price based on estimated fair values, we recorded approximately $6.7 billion of goodwill, $3.2 billion of identifiable intangible assets and $763 million of net tangible liabilities.
The total of the purchase prices, certain of which were preliminary, for these acquisitions was approximately $3.0 billion, which consisted of approximately $3.0 billion in cash and $13 million for the fair values of restricted stock-based awards and stock options assumed.
The unaudited pro forma financial information for all periods presented included the business combination accounting effects resulting from these acquisitions, including amortization charges from acquired intangible assets (certain of which are preliminary), stock-based compensation charges for unvested restricted stock-based awards and stock options assumed, if any, and the related tax effects as though the aforementioned companies were combined as of the beginning of fiscal 2017.
The unaudited pro forma financial information for the three and nine months ended February 28, 2018 presented the historical results of Oracle for the three and nine months ended February 28, 2018 as we did not complete any material acquisitions during the first nine months of fiscal 2018.
Based on the trading prices of the $60.9 billion and $54.0 billion of senior notes and the related fair value hedges that were outstanding as of February 28, 2018 and May 31, 2017, respectively, the estimated fair values of the senior notes and the related fair value hedges using Level 2 inputs at February 28, 2018 and May 31, 2017 were $62.0 billion and $56.5 billion, respectively.


item2.txt
Oracle Corporation provides products and services that address all aspects of corporate information technology (IT) environments—applications, platform and infrastructure.
We are a leader in the core technologies of cloud IT environments, including database and middleware software as well as enterprise applications, virtualization, clustering, large-scale systems management and related infrastructure.
An important element of our corporate strategy is to continue our investments in, and innovation with respect to, our products and services that we offer through our cloud and on-premise software, hardware and services businesses.
We have a deep understanding as to how applications, platform and infrastructure technologies interact and function with one another within IT environments.
We believe that our acquisitions enhance the products and services that we can offer to customers, expand our customer base, provide greater scale to accelerate innovation, grow our revenues and earnings, and increase stockholder value.
In recent periods, customer demand has increased at a greater rate for cloud-based IT deployment models relative to on-premise IT deployment models.
We expect these trends to continue.
New software license customers have the option to purchase software license updates and product support contracts, which grant rights to unspecified product upgrades and maintenance releases and patches released during the term of the support period, as well as technical support assistance.
Our software license updates and product support contracts are generally one year in duration and are generally billed in advance of the service being performed and are generally recognized as revenues as the software support services are delivered.
We expect these trends will continue with the mix of this business’ revenues continuing to shift toward cloud-based services.
•    contributions from our acquisitions.
We believe all of these factors should contribute to future growth in our cloud and on-premise software revenues, which should enable us to continue to make investments in research and development to develop and improve our cloud and on-premise software products and services.
We expect to make investments in research and development to improve existing hardware products and services and to develop new hardware products and services.
Hardware support contracts are generally priced as a percentage of the net hardware products fees and are generally recognized as revenues as the hardware support services are delivered.
Our services business has lower margins than our cloud and on-premise software and hardware businesses.


item3.txt



part2.txt
Item 1A.


