The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis (“MD&A”) is intended to assist in an understanding of our financial condition and results of operations.As used in these Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) (these “Notes”), the terms “Harris,” “Company,” “we,” “our” and “us” refer to Harris Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries.
The accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) have been prepared by Harris, without an audit, in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) for interim financial information and with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).
The results for the quarter ended September 28, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the full fiscal year or any subsequent period.
The balance sheet at June 29, 2018 has been derived from our audited financial statements and reflects the adoption of Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), as amended (“ASC 606”), as described below under “Adoption of New Accounting Standards.” The balance sheet at June 29, 2018 does not include all of the information and footnotes required by GAAP for annual financial statements.
Reclassifications include certain direct selling and bid and proposal costs from the “Cost of product sales and services” line item to the “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited) and in these Notes.
Depending on the nature of the modification, we consider whether to account for the modification as an adjustment to the existing contract or as a separate contract.
Therefore, such modifications are accounted for as if they were part of the existing contract, and we may be required to recognize a cumulative catch-up adjustment to revenue at the date of the contract modification.
We determine the transaction price for each contract based on our best estimate of the consideration we expect to receive, which includes assumptions regarding variable consideration, such as award and incentive fees.
For contracts with multiple performance obligations, we allocate the transaction price to each performance obligation based on the relative standalone selling price of the good or service underlying each performance obligation.This MD&A is provided as a supplement to, should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to, our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and accompanying Notes appearing elsewhere in this Report (the “Notes”).
In addition, reference should be made to our audited Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Item 7.
Reclassifications include certain direct selling and bid and proposal costs from the “Cost of product sales and services” line item to the “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited) and in the Notes.
The increase in revenue in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was due to higher revenue in all three of our segments.
The increase in gross margin in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to higher revenue in all three of our segments and productivity savings, partially offset by program and business revenue mix in our Communication Systems segment.
The increase in engineering, selling and administrative (“ESA”) expenses in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to higher bid and proposal and employment costs.These audits may result in assessments of additional taxes that are subsequently resolved with the authorities or ultimately through legal proceedings.