fls.txt
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 ("Securities Act") and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ("Exchange Act").
Forward-looking statements may generally be identified by the use of such words as "anticipate," "believe," “could,” "expect," "intend," “may,” "plan," "potential," "shall," "will," “would,” or variations of such words and similar expressions, or the negative of these terms.
Specific forward-looking statements contained within this Form 10-Q include, but are not limited to, statements regarding (i) our beliefs regarding the Enterprise market, market dynamics and customer behavior as well as our position in the market, (ii) our beliefs regarding the Consumer market, our new product introductions and the expected effect of such introductions, (iii) our belief that our "as-a-service" offerings will benefit our growth long-term but their contribution will not be material in the near term, (iv) our intention to provide customer data insight through software and service solutions, (v) the Unified Communications & Collaboration ("UC&C") market, including adoption of UC&C products, our position, and timing and growth expectations in this market, (vi) our plans regarding our "as a service" offerings including sales and marketing efforts, (vii) our intentions regarding investments in long-term growth opportunities and our core research and development efforts, in particular in the UC&C market, (viii) our intentions regarding the focus of our sales, marketing and customer services and support teams on UC&C, (ix) the future of UC&C technologies, including the transition of businesses to UC&C-supported systems and the effects on headset adoption and use, enterprises that adopt UC&C and our revenue opportunity and profit growth, (x) our expenses, including research, development and engineering expenses and selling, general and administrative expenses, (xi) fluctuations in our cash provided by operating activities as a result of various factors, including fluctuations in revenues and operating expenses, timing of product shipments, accounts receivable collections, inventory and supply chain management, and the timing and amount of taxes and other payments, (xii) our future tax rate and payments related to unrecognized tax benefits, (xiii) the sufficiency of our cash, cash equivalents, and cash from operations to sustain future operations and discretionary cash requirements, (xiv) our ability to pay future stockholder dividends, (xv) our ability to draw funds on our credit facility as needed, (xvi) the sufficiency of our capital resources to fund operations, and other statements regarding our future operations, financial condition and prospects, and business strategies, (xvii) our expectations and beliefs regarding the impact of the Polycom acquisition on our business including, without limitation, our ability to: (a) timely and efficiently integrate the businesses without impacting revenue and operations, (b) timely achieve expected synergies and operating efficiencies; (c) successfully manage relationships with customers, resellers, end-users, suppliers and strategic partners; (d) accurately estimate potential markets and market shares for the combined company's products, achieve market growth rates and successfully advocate the benefits of the combined company and the nature and extent of competitive responses to the combined company; (e) estimate the impact resulting from outcomes or rulings in known or yet undiscovered regulatory, litigation or other similar matters; (f) timely and effectively implement appropriate controls and processes for the reporting of financial and operational information and data according to governmental, contractual and other obligations; (g) tax implications of the acquisition; (h) integrate supply chains; and (i) react quickly and efficiently to mitigate risks related to the failure of our due diligence to uncover potential liabilities of Polycom.
Such forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and assumptions and are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements.
Factors that could cause actual results and events to differ materially from such forward-looking statements are included, but not limited to, those discussed in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q; in Part I, "Item 1A.
Risk Factors" of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on May 9, 2018; and other documents we have filed with the SEC.
We undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as required by applicable law.
Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements.
We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, cash provided by operations, and the availability of additional funds under the Credit Agreement will be sufficient to fund operations for at least the next 12 months; however, any projections of future financial needs and sources of working capital are subject to uncertainty.
Readers are cautioned to review the risks, uncertainties, and assumptions set forth in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, including the section entitled "Certain Forward-Looking Information" and the risk factors set forth in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, filed with the SEC on May 9, 2018, and other periodic filings with the SEC, any of which could affect our estimates for future financial needs and sources of working capital.


part2.txt
The failure to successfully integrate the business and operations of Polycom in the expected time frame and achieve the expected synergies may adversely affect the business and financial results of the combined company.
We have incurred significant indebtedness to finance the acquisition of Polycom, which will decrease our business flexibility and increase borrowing costs, which may adversely affect our operations and financial results.
In connection with the acquisition of Polycom, we borrowed approximately $1.275 billion, which was financed through a senior secured term loan bearing interest at LIBOR plus 250 bps maturing in July 2025 (“Credit Agreement”).
As a result, upon completion of the acquisition we increased our indebtedness in an amount materially greater than our historical indebtedness.
The financial and other covenants in the Credit Agreement and our increased indebtedness and higher debt-to-equity ratio will have the effect, among other things, of reducing our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions and increasing borrowing costs, and may adversely affect our operations and financial results.
In addition, our failure to comply with the covenants could result in a default under the Credit Agreement and our other debt, which could permit the holders to accelerate such debt or demand payment in exchange for a waiver of such default.
If any of our debt is accelerated, we may not have sufficient funds available to repay such debt as due.
The current debt under the Credit Agreement has a floating interest rate that is based on variable and unpredictable U.S. and international economic risks and uncertainties and an increase in interest rates may negatively impact our financial results.
We enter into interest rate hedging transactions that reduce, but do not mitigate, the impact of unfavorable changes in interest rates.
There is no guarantee that our hedging efforts will be effective or, if effective in one period will continue to remain effective in future periods.
In addition, the mandatory debt repayment schedule of the Credit Agreement and the maturity our existing 5.50% Senior Notes in 2023 may negatively impact our cash position and further reduce our financial flexibility.
Furthermore, any changes by rating agencies to our credit rating in connection with such indebtedness may negatively impact the value and liquidity of our debt and equity securities.
The integration of the combined companies may result in significant expenses and accounting charges that adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.
We have significant manufacturing, assembly and packaging operations in Mexico and rely on third party manufacturers located outside of U.S., and a significant amount of our revenues are generated internationally, each of which subjects our business to risks of international operations.
We own and operate a manufacturing facility in Tijuana, Mexico, which is responsible for assembly of a significant portion of our Enterprise products from materials and components sourced from various suppliers in Asia and North America, and other suppliers.
Additionally, our Tijuana facility is primarily responsible for the packaging and final processing of most of our Consumer products after manufacturing and assembly by third parties, many of which are located in Asia, China in particular.
Also, we generate a significant amount of our revenues from foreign customers.
•Compliance with anti-bribery laws, including the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the United Kingdom's Bribery Act. Additionally, recently announced tariffs by the United States will, if implemented as currently proposed, levy tariffs on products, including those incorporating Bluetooth technology that are manufactured in China.
A portion of our Consumer and Enterprise products contain Bluetooth technology and a number of our accessory products are manufactured in China.
If implemented in their currently proposed form, the tariffs are expected to have a materially adverse impact on the profitability of our Consumer category.
Similarly, proposals to impose tariffs, border taxes, and other actions related to the importation of goods from Mexico as well as renegotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement with Mexico and Canada have been suggested by the United States.
importing our products.
Alternatively, if we deem it necessary to alter all or a portion of our domestic and international activities in response to such legislation or executive actions, our capital and operating costs may increase, possibly substantially.
Our largest stockholder has the means to influence our business and operations, its interests may differ from those of our other stockholders, and sales by that shareholder into the market could impact the price of our common stock.
As a consequence of our acquisition of Polycom, Inc. on July 2, 2018, we issued shares of our common stock to Triangle Private Holdings II, LLC ("Triangle"), an entity indirectly controlled by Siris Capital Group, LLC ("Siris"), equivalent to approximately 16% of our issued and outstanding shares, which made Triangle our largest single stockholder.
In addition, we entered into a Stockholder Agreement with Triangle pursuant to which we appointed two individuals selected by Triangle to our board of directors.
The interests of Triangle, Siris and its other affiliated entities and individuals may differ from the interests of other holders of our common stock.
Siris also holds, or in the future may hold, interests in other companies, that may compete with us, and the director representatives of Triangle are not required to present to us corporate opportunities such as potential acquisitions or new clients.
Triangle will be permitted to sell up to one-third of the shares issued pursuant to the acquisition on July 2, 2019, up to two-thirds of their shares beginning on January 2, 2020 and all of the shares after July 2, 2020.
The average daily trading volume of our stock is limited, and any resale of the shares held by Triangle will increase the number of shares of our common stock available for public trading, which may depress the price of our stock.
Additionally, the sale by Triangle or their successors of all or a substantial portion of the shares in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur, could impact the price of our common stock.
On July 27, 2017 the Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase 1,000,000 shares of our common stock from time to time in the market or in privately negotiated repurchases as determined by management.
"Average Price Paid per Share" reflects open market repurchases of common stock only.


