Item 3.   



Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 



We do not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. We have generally invested our available cash in short-term, highly liquid financial instruments, having initial maturities of three months or less. When necessary, we have borrowed to fund acquisitions. 



Interest rate risk 



We derive service revenues from investment earnings related to cash balances maintained in bank accounts on which we are the agent for clients. The balances maintained in the bank accounts will fluctuate. For the six months ended June 30, 2018, we had average daily cash balances of approximately $2.1 billion maintained in such accounts. We estimate that a 100 basis point change in the interest earnings rate would equal approximately $8.7 million of net (loss) income on an annual basis. The effect of changes in interest rates attributable to earnings derived from cash balances we hold for clients is partially offset by changes in interest rates on our variable debt.  



At June 30, 2018, we had total debt of $6,992.5 million, including $6,962.2 million of variable interest rate debt. As of June 30, 2018, a 1% increase in interest rates would result in an increase in interest expense of approximately $69.6 million per year. 



Foreign currency exchange rate risk 



During the six months ended June 30, 2018, approximately 28% of our revenues were from clients located outside the United States. A portion of the revenues from clients located outside the United States is denominated in foreign currencies, the majority being the British pound. While revenues and expenses of our foreign operations are primarily denominated in their respective local currencies, some subsidiaries do enter into certain transactions in currencies that are different from their local currency. These transactions consist primarily of cross-currency intercompany balances and trade receivables and payables. As a result of these transactions, we have exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates that result in foreign currency transaction gains and losses, which we report in other income (expense). These outstanding amounts were not material for the six months ended June 30, 2018. The amount of these balances can fluctuate in the future as we bill customers and buy products or services in currencies other than our functional currency, which could increase our exposure to foreign currency exchange rates. We continue to monitor our exposure to foreign exchange rates as a result of our acquisitions and changes in our operations. We do not enter into any market risk sensitive instruments for trading purposes. 





We have entered into foreign currency cash flow and economic hedging programs to mitigate the impact of movements in foreign currency (principally British pound, Australian dollar, Thai baht and Indian rupee) on our operations. The total notional value of our foreign currency derivatives was $86.2 million at June 30, 2018. The fair value of the contracts that do not qualify for hedge accounting resulted in a liability of $1.2 million at June 30, 2018. We estimate a 10% change in exchange rates on these contracts would result in a $6.3 million change to net (loss) income. Gains and losses on the derivative instruments are largely offset by changes in the underlying hedged items, resulting in a minimal impact on earnings.  



The foregoing risk management discussion and the effect thereof are forward-looking statements. Actual results in the future may differ materially from these projected results due to actual developments in global financial markets. The analytical methods used by us to assess and minimize risk discussed above should not be considered projections of future events or losses. 



