fls.txt



item1.txt
J2 Global, Inc., together with its subsidiaries (“J2 Global”, the “Company”, “our”, “us”, or “we”), is a leading provider of internet services.
In addition, the Cloud Services business includes fax, voice, backup, security, consumer privacy and protection (“CPP”), and email marketing products.
All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
The accompanying interim condensed consolidated financial statements are unaudited and have been prepared in accordance with instructions for Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).
In the opinion of management, all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring adjustments) considered necessary for a fair presentation have been reflected in these interim financial statements.
J2 Global reserves for receivables it may not be able to collect.
The reserves for the Company’s Digital Media business are typically driven by past due invoices based on historical experience.
On an ongoing basis, management evaluates the adequacy of these reserves.
J2 Global recognizes revenue when the Company satisfies its obligation by transferring control of the goods or services to its customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services (see Note 3 - Revenues).
As of September 30, 2019, the carrying value of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, interest receivable, accounts payable, accrued expenses, interest payable, customer deposits and long-term debt are reflected in the financial statements at cost.
With the exception of certain investments and long-term debt, cost approximates fair value due to the short-term nature of such instruments.
J2 Global determines the appropriate classification of its investments at the time of acquisition and evaluates such determination at each balance sheet date.
Trading securities are those investments that the Company intends to sell within a few hours or days and are carried at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses included in investment income.
Held-to-maturity securities are those investments which the Company has the ability and intent to hold until maturity and are recorded at amortized cost.
For equity securities without a readily determinable fair value that are not accounted for by the equity method, the Company measures the equity security using cost, less impairment, if any, and plus or minus observable price changes arising from orderly transactions in the same or similar investment from the same issuer.
Under ASC Topic 323, Investments - Equity Method and Joint Ventures, an investor that holds investments that qualify for specialized industry accounting for investment companies in accordance with ASC 946 should record its share of the earnings or losses, realized or unrealized, as reported by its equity method investees in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income.
The estimated useful lives of property and equipment range from 1 to 10 years.
Fixtures, which are comprised primarily of leasehold improvements and equipment under capital leases, are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives or for leasehold improvements, the related lease term, if less.
The Company has capitalized certain internal use software and website development costs which are included in property and equipment.


item2.txt
◦Sustain growth or profitability, particularly in light of an uncertain U.S. or worldwide economy and the related impact on customer acquisition and retention rates, customer usage levels, and credit and debit card payment declines; J2 Global, Inc., together with its subsidiaries (“J2 Global”, “the Company”, “our”, “us” or “we”), is a leading provider of internet services.
Through our Cloud Services business, we provide cloud services to consumers and businesses and license our intellectual property (“IP”) to third parties.
Our Cloud Services business generates revenues primarily from customer subscription and usage fees and from IP licensing fees.
Our consolidated revenues are currently generated from three basic business models, each with different financial profiles and variability.
Our Digital Media business is driven primarily by advertising revenues, has relatively higher sales and marketing expense and has seasonal strength in the fourth quarter.
Our critical accounting policies are described in our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on March 1, 2019.
During the three months ended September 30, 2019, there were no significant changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates.


item3.txt
Item 3.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which reflect management’s opinions only as of the date hereof.
The primary objectives of our investment activities are to preserve our principal while at the same time maximizing yields without significantly increasing risk.


item4.txt



part2.txt
See Note 10 – Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1) for information regarding certain legal proceedings in which we are involved.


