fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying interim condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of j2 Global and its direct and indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries.
The accompanying interim condensed consolidated financial statements are unaudited and have been prepared in accordance with instructions for Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).
It is suggested that these financial statements be read in conjunction with the audited financial statements and the related notes thereto for the year ended December 31, 2017 included in our Annual Report (Form 10-K) filed with the SEC on March 1, 2018. j2 Global reserves for receivables it may not be able to collect.
The reserves for the Company’s Digital Media segment are typically driven by past due invoices based on historical experience.
On an ongoing basis, management evaluates the adequacy of these reserves.
j2 Global recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, services have been provided, the sales price is fixed and determinable and collection is probable.
j2 Global recognizes revenue when the Company satisfies its obligation by transferring control of the goods or services to its customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services (see Note 3 - Revenues).
The Company has made an accounting policy election to exclude from the measurement of the transaction price all taxes assessed by a governmental authority that are (i) both imposed on and concurrent with a specific revenue-producing transaction and (ii) collected by the Company from a customer.
j2 Global determines the appropriate classification of its investments at the time of acquisition and evaluates such determination at each balance sheet date.
Trading securities are those investments that the Company intends to sell within a few hours or days and are carried at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses included in investment income.
Held-to-maturity securities are those investments which the Company has the ability and intent to hold until maturity and are recorded at amortized cost.
Any unrealized gains or losses will be reported in current earnings (see Note 5 - Investments).
As of June 30, 2018, the carrying value of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, interest receivable, accounts payable, accrued expenses, interest payable, customer deposits and long-term debt are reflected in the financial statements at cost.
With the exception of certain investments and long-term debt, cost approximates fair value due to the short-term nature of such instruments.
The estimated useful lives of property and equipment range from 1 to 10 years.
Fixtures, which are comprised primarily of leasehold improvements and equipment under capital leases, are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives or for leasehold improvements, the related lease term, if less.
The Company has capitalized certain internal use software and website development costs which are included in property and equipment.
The estimated useful life of costs capitalized is evaluated for each specific project and ranges from 1 to 5 years.


item2.txt
◦Sustain growth or profitability, particularly in light of an uncertain U.S. or worldwide economy and the related impact on customer acquisition and retention rates, customer usage levels, and credit and debit card payment declines; j2 Global, Inc., together with its subsidiaries (“j2 Global”, “the Company”, “our”, “us” or “we”), is a leading provider of internet services.
Through our Cloud Services segment, we provide cloud services to consumers and businesses and license our intellectual property (“IP”) to third parties.
Our Cloud Services segment generates revenues primarily from customer subscription and usage fees and from IP licensing fees.
Our consolidated revenues are currently generated from three basic business models, each with different financial profiles and variability.
Our Cloud Services segment is driven primarily by subscription revenues that are relatively higher margin, stable and predictable from quarter to quarter with some seasonal weakness in the fourth quarter.
The Cloud Services segment also includes the results of our IP licensing business, which can vary dramatically in both revenues and profitability from period to period.


item3.txt
Item 3.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which reflect management’s opinions only as of the date hereof.


item4.txt



part2.txt
See Note 9 – Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1) for information regarding certain legal proceedings in which we are involved.
In addition to the other information set forth in this report, before deciding to invest in j2 Global or to maintain or increase your investment, you should carefully consider the factors discussed in Part I, Item 1A “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 (the “10-K Risk Factors”) as well as in other documents we file from time to time with the SEC, including the Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and any Current Reports on Form 8-K filed or to be filed by us in 2018.
Changes to these provisional amounts or any of our other estimates regarding taxes could result in material charges or credits in future reporting periods.
Additionally, the tax project initiated by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (“OECD”) on Base Erosion and Profit Sharing (“BEPS”) and other similar initiatives could adversely affect our worldwide effective tax rate.


