In 2017 Fujifilm publicly announced it had formed an independent investigation committee ("IIC") to conduct a review of the appropriateness of the accounting practices at Fuji Xerox’s New Zealand subsidiary related to the recovery of receivables associated with certain bundled leasing transactions that occurred in, or prior to, Fuji Xerox’s fiscal year ending March 31, 2016.
In the second quarter 2017, we determined that the misstatements to our Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates in prior years and the first quarter of 2017 identified through the IIC's review were immaterial to our previously issued financial statements.
Accordingly, we revised our previously issued consolidated financial statements for the first quarter of 2017.
The effect of the revision on our previously issued financial statements is provided in the tables below.
On January 1, 2018 we adopted ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC Topic 606), which superseded nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under U.S. GAAP.
The core principle of ASC Topic 606 is to recognize revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services.
Under ASC Topic 606, based on the nature of our contracts and consistent with prior practice, we recognize revenue upon invoicing the customer for the large majority of our revenue.
Additionally, the unit of accounting, that is, the identification of performance obligations, is consistent with prior revenue recognition practice.We refer to this analysis as "constant currency", “currency impact” or “the impact from currency.” This impact is calculated by translating current period activity in local currency using the comparable prior year period's currency translation rate.
Refer to Note 19 - Contingencies and Litigation and Note 20 - Fuji Xerox Transaction and Recent Developments in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to this transaction and related matters.
In 2018, in connection with the completion of the audits of Fuji Xerox’s fiscal year-end financial statements as of and for the years ended March 31, 2016 and 2017, as well as the review of Fuji Xerox’s unaudited interim financial statements as of and for the nine months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, additional adjustments and misstatements were identified.
These additional adjustments and misstatements were to the previously reported net income of Fuji Xerox for the period from 2010 through 2017 and are incremental to the items identified by the IIC noted above.
In certain instances, some of the adjustments related to inappropriate accounting and reporting practices in the Fuji Xerox Asia Pacific subsidiaries and are further evidence of inadequate management oversight and an insufficient entity level monitoring system for financial statements of subsidiaries beyond what was previously identified by the IIC.
Total revenue of $2.44 billion for first quarter 2018 declined 0.8% from first quarter 2017 including a 3.8-percentage point favorable impact from currency.
Post-sale revenue, declined 0.3% including a 3.8-percentage point favorable impact from currency.
Equipment revenues of $499 million declined by 2.7%, including a 3.7-percentage point favorable impact from currency.Not applicable.None.