fls.txt



item1.txt
On March 6, 2019, the Xerox Board of Directors approved a reorganization (the “Reorganization”) of the Company's corporate structure into a holding company structure, pursuant to which Xerox Corporation will become a direct, wholly-owned subsidiary of a new holding company.
It is expected that the directors and executive officers of Xerox Corporation will also serve in the same capacities for the new holding company and that shares of the new holding company’s common stock will trade on the New York Stock Exchange under Xerox Corporation’s current ticker symbol “XRX.” Upon the completion of the Reorganization, it is anticipated that the new holding company will become a guarantor of Xerox Corporation's existing Credit Facility.
In March 2019, as part of Project Own It, we entered into a shared services arrangement with HCL Technologies (HCL) pursuant to which we are outsourcing certain global administrative and support functions, including, among others, selected information technology and finance functions (excluding accounting).
The spending commitment excludes restructuring and related costs we are expected to incur in connection with the transition of the contemplated functions - refer to Note 11 - Restructuring Programs for additional information.
Prior year amounts were also revised as follows to conform to the 2019 presentation.
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Financial Instruments Credit Losses - Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments, with additional updates being issued in 2018.
This update requires measurement and recognition of expected credit losses for financial assets.
The update impacts financial assets and net investment in leases that are not accounted for at fair value through Net Income.
We are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of ASU 2016-13 on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The update provides criteria for determining which implementation costs to capitalize as an asset related to the service contract and which costs to expense.
The capitalized implementation costs are required to be expensed over the term of the hosting arrangement.
We are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of ASU 2018-15 on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
This update, as well as additional amendments and targeted improvements issued in 2018 and early 2019, supersedes existing lease accounting guidance found under ASC 840, Leases (“ASC 840”) and requires the recognition of right-to-use assets and lease obligations by lessees for those leases originally classified as operating leases under prior lease guidance.
Short term leases with a term of 12 months or less are not required to be recognized.
Some of these conforming changes, such as those related to the definition of lease term and minimum lease payments, resulted in certain lease arrangements, that would have been previously accounted for as operating leases, to be classified and accounted for as sales-type leases with a corresponding up-front recognition of equipment sales revenue.


item2.txt
We refer to this analysis as "constant currency", “currency impact” or “the impact from currency.” This impact is calculated by translating current period activity in local currency using the comparable prior year period's currency translation rate.
Total revenue of $2.21 billion for first quarter 2019 declined 9.4% from first quarter 2018, including a 2.4-percentage point unfavorable impact from currency.
The increase in Net income attributable to Xerox for the three months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to the prior year period, was primarily due to the continued benefits of cost savings and productivity improvements from our Project Own It transformation actions, which offset the impact of lower revenues, as well as lower Transaction and related costs, net, lower Income tax expense and higher Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates.
These benefits were partially offset by higher Restructuring and related costs.
The increase in adjusted1 net income attributable to Xerox for the three months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to the prior year period was primarily related to increased operating profits reflecting the continued benefits of cost savings and productivity improvements, which offset the decline in revenues, as well as higher Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates.
Cash flows provided by operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2019 were $226 million, as compared to $216 million in first quarter 2018.
The increase reflects improved cash flow from earnings and lower restructuring payments, which were partially offset by a use of cash for working capital2 and accrued compensation.
•Services, maintenance and rentals revenue includes rental and maintenance revenue (including bundled supplies) as well as the post sale component of the document services revenue from our Xerox Services offerings.


item4.txt
The transition of these functions to HCL is expected to take up to 18 months.
Not applicable.
None.


part2.txt
None.
Not applicable.
None.


