fls.txt



item1.txt
On January 1, 2018, we adopted ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC Topic 606), which superseded nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under U.S. GAAP.
The core principle of ASC Topic 606 is to recognize revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services.
Under ASC Topic 606, based on the nature of our contracts and consistent with prior practice, we recognize revenue upon invoicing the customer for the large majority of our revenue.
These revenues, which are approximately $50 annually, relate to certain analyst services performed in connection with the installation of equipment that are being considered part of the equipment sale performance obligation in 2018.
As a result of this change, $9 and $20 of revenue was recorded, for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively, as Sales, which would have been previously recorded as Services revenue in prior periods.
However, as a result of the contract cost guidance included in ASC Topic 606 and ASC Topic 340-40 "Contracts with Customers", upon adoption, we recorded a transition asset of $153, and a net of tax increase of $117 to Retained earnings, related to the incremental cost to obtain contracts.
Substantially all of this adjustment is related to the deferral of sales commissions paid to sales people and agents in connection with the placement of equipment with post sale service arrangements.
Revenue is measured based on consideration specified in a contract with a customer and is recognized when we satisfy a performance obligation by transferring control of a product to a customer or in the period the customer benefits from the service.
As a result of the application of this practical expedient for the substantial portion of our revenue, the disclosure of the value of unsatisfied performance obligations for our services is not required.
Significant judgments primarily include the identification of performance obligations in our Document management services arrangements as well the pattern of delivery for those services.
Certain document management services arrangements may also include an embedded lease of equipment.
In these instances, the revenues associated with the lease are recognized in accordance with the requirements for lease accounting.


item2.txt
We refer to this analysis as "constant currency", “currency impact” or “the impact from currency.” This impact is calculated by translating current period activity in local currency using the comparable prior year period's currency translation rate.
Refer to Note 18 - Contingencies and Litigation and Note 19 - Fuji Xerox Transaction and Recent Developments in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to this terminated transaction and related matters.
In 2018, in connection with the completion of the audits of Fuji Xerox’s fiscal year-end financial statements as of and for the years ended March 31, 2016 and 2017, as well as the review of Fuji Xerox’s unaudited interim financial statements as of and for the nine months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, additional adjustments and misstatements were identified.
Total revenue of $2.51 billion for second quarter 2018 declined 2.2% from second quarter 2017 and included a 1.8-percentage point favorable impact from currency.
Post sale revenue declined 3.1% from second quarter 2017 and included a 1.9-percentage point favorable impact from currency.
Total equipment revenue of $561 million increased 0.9%, including a 1.5-percentage point favorable impact from currency.
Post sale revenue of $3.89 billion, which represented 79% of total revenue, declined 1.7% and included a 2.9-percentage point favorable impact from currency.
Total equipment revenue of $1.06 billion declined 0.8% including a 2.5-percentage point favorable impact from currency.
The decrease in Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 as compared to the prior year periods was primarily due to Transaction and related costs, net and lower revenues.
The decrease in Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the six months ended June 30, 2018 was also negatively impacted by lower Equity in net income from unconsolidated affiliates, which included our share of a significant restructuring charge recorded by Fuji Xerox and Income tax expense.
The decrease in adjusted1 Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 as compared to the prior year periods was primarily related to lower revenues, partially offset by the continued benefits of cost savings and productivity improvements, as well as gains from the sale of non-core assets.


item4.txt
Not applicable.
None.
See SEC File Number 001-04471.


part2.txt
This program replaces the $245 million of authority remaining under Registrant’s previously authorized share repurchase program.
None.
Not applicable.
None.


