fls.txt



item1.txt
Refer to Note 1 - Basis of Presentation for additional information.
Refer to Note 1 - Basis of Presentation for additional information.
References to “Xerox Holdings” refer to Xerox Holdings Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries while references to “Xerox” refer to Xerox Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries.
This is a combined report of Xerox Holdings and Xerox, which includes separate unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for each registrant.
Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements reflect the activity for both Xerox Holdings and Xerox for all periods presented, unless otherwise noted.
On March 6, 2019, the Xerox Board of Directors approved a reorganization (the “Reorganization”) of the Company's corporate structure into a holding company structure.
On July 31, 2019, Xerox completed the Reorganization, pursuant to which Xerox became a direct, wholly-owned subsidiary of Xerox Holdings.
In addition, Xerox Holdings became a guarantor of Xerox’s existing Credit Facility.
Shares of Xerox Holdings common stock trade on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol “XRX”, formerly used by Xerox.
In March 2019, as part of Project Own It, we entered into a shared services arrangement with HCL Technologies (HCL) pursuant to which we are outsourcing certain global administrative and support functions, including, among others, selected information technology and finance functions (excluding accounting).
The spending commitment excludes restructuring and related costs we are expected to incur in connection with the transition of the contemplated functions - refer to Note 12 - Restructuring Programs for additional information.
We incurred net charges of approximately $38 and $68 for three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, associated with this arrangement.


item2.txt
Refer to Note 1 - Basis of Presentation, Corporate Reorganization, in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Reorganization.
We refer to this analysis as "constant currency", “currency impact” or “the impact from currency.” This impact is calculated by translating current period activity in local currency using the comparable prior year period's currency translation rate.
This impact is calculated for all countries where the functional currency is the local country currency.
We do not hedge the translation effect of revenues or expenses denominated in currencies where the local currency is the functional currency.
The decline in Equipment sales primarily reflected lower revenues from our mid-range products, which were impacted by organizational changes within the XBS sales organization, that continue to stabilize, as we transitioned a significant number of accounts from U.S. Enterprise in the first half of 2019.
Third quarter 2019 Net income attributable to Xerox Holdings increased $132 million as compared to third quarter 2018 primarily due to lower non-service retirement-related costs and Income tax expense as well as higher Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates.
Net income attributable to Xerox Holdings for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 increased $311 million as compared to the prior year period primarily due to higher Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates as well as lower Income tax expense and non-service retirement-related costs.


item4.txt
3.3 Certificate of Amendment of Xerox Holdings Corporation’s Certificate of Incorporation dated July 31, 2019.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Xerox Holdings Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2019.
See SEC File Number 001-39013.
3.4 Xerox Holdings Corporation’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation filed with the Department of State of New York on July 31, 2019.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to Xerox Holdings Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2019.


part2.txt
3.3 Certificate of Amendment of Xerox Holdings Corporation’s Certificate of Incorporation dated July 31, 2019.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Xerox Holdings Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2019.
See SEC File Number 001-39013.
3.4 Xerox Holdings Corporation’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation filed with the Department of State of New York on July 31, 2019.
See SEC File Number 001-39013.


