The following tables present revenue, operating income, and assets for the three segments. Operating income as reviewed by the CODM is revenue less cost of goods sold and operating expenses, excluding general corporate expenses, amortization of purchased intangible assets, amortization of acquisition-related inventory step-up, loss on sale of a business and restructuring and other charges. Net accounts receivable, inventories and demonstration assets for the operating segments are regularly reviewed by management and are reported below as segment assets. All remaining assets, liabilities, capital expenditures, and depreciation are managed on a Company-wide basis.
The Industrial business unit develops and manufactures thermal and visible-spectrum imaging camera cores and components that are utilized by third parties to create thermal, industrial, and other types of imaging systems. The segment also develops and manufactures devices that image, measure, and assess thermal energy, gases, and other environmental elements for industrial, commercial, and scientific applications, imaging payloads for Unmanned Aerial Systems ("UAS"), machine vision cameras, people counting and tracking, and thermal imaging solutions for use by consumers in the smartphone and mobile devices markets. Products include thermal imaging cameras, gas detection cameras, firefighting cameras, process automation cameras, and environmental test and measurement devices.
Note 18. Operating Segments and Related Information - (Continued)
 On February 6, 2018 the Company sold the Consumer and Small and Medium-sized ("SMB") Security businesses within the Commercial segment for total cash consideration of approximately $28.8 million. As a result of this combined sale, the Company recognized a pre-tax loss of $10.2 million in the first quarter of 2018. This group of assets was previously classified as held for sale during the fourth quarter of 2017, when the Company recorded an estimated pre-tax loss on net assets held for sale of $23.6 million. This disposal does not qualify as discontinued operations and therefore, its operating results are included in the Company’s continuing operations for all periods presented through the date of the sale.
Many contracts are subject to cancellation or suspension on short notice at the discretion of the customer, and the contracts in our backlog are subject to changes in the scope of services to be provided as well as adjustments to the costs relating to the contract. We have historically experienced variances in the components of backlog related to delivery delays or cancellations resulting from customer-specific circumstances, external market factors and economic factors beyond our control, and we may experience more 
On April 29, 2016, Raytheon filed a Notice of Appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit of the denial by the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas of Raytheon’s Renewed Motion for Judgment as a Matter of Law, or in the Alternative, Motion for New Trial. On May 11, 2016, the FLIR Parties filed a Notice of Appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit of the Order of the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas Denying the FLIR Parties’ Amended Rule 54(d) Motion for Attorneys’ Fees and Costs under the Texas Theft Liability Act, the Order Denying the FLIR Parties’ Renewed Motion For Judgment as a Matter Of Law, and the Final Judgment to the extent it denied the FLIR Parties Attorneys’ Fees and Costs under the Texas Theft Liability Act. The United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit heard the matter on January 12, 2018 and a decision is expected later this year. The matter remains ongoing and is subject to appeal. The Company is unable to estimate the amount or range of potential loss or recovery, if any, which might result if the final determination of this matter is favorable or unfavorable, but an adverse ruling on the merits of the original claims against the FLIR Parties, while remote, could be material.
The Company is unable to reasonably estimate the time it may take to resolve these matters or the amount or range of potential loss, penalty or other government action, if any, that may be incurred in connection with these matters. However, an unfavorable outcome could result in substantial fines and penalties or loss or suspension of export privileges or of particular authorizations that could be material to the Company’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows in and following the period in which such an outcome becomes estimable or known.
Note 18. Operating Segments and Related Information - (Continued)
The following table presents the Company’s revenues disaggregated by geographical region and operating segment for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 (in thousands). 
•the tendency of commercial enterprises to utilize fully annual capital budgets prior to expiration.
Property and equipment are net of accumulated depreciation of $315.5 million and $306.2 million at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.Industrial business unit revenue for the quarter ended March 31, 2018, increased by 10.3 percent compared to the same period of 2017. The increase in revenue for the three-month period was predominately attributable to strength in the Instruments handheld market, UAS, and sales to OEMs. The increase in earnings from operations for the three months ended March 31, 2018, compared to the same periods of 2017, was primarily due to the higher revenue. 
Government and Defense business unit revenue for the quarter ended March 31, 2018, increased by 15.3 percent compared to the same period of 2017. The increase in revenue for the quarter ended March 31, 2018, compared to the same period of 2017 was driven by increase in sales in airborne gimbals and higher HRC demand in the Middle East. The increase in earnings from operations for the three-month period ended March 31, 2018, compared to the same periods in 2017, was primarily due to higher revenues and favorable product mix. The decrease in backlog is due to timing of major bookings and shipments. 
Commercial business unit revenue for the quarter ended March 31, 2018, decreased by 3.7 percent compared to the same period of 2017. The decrease in revenue for the three-month period ended March 31, 2018 was predominately due to the divestitures of our Consumer and SMB Security businesses during the period ended March 31, 2018, partially offset by higher marine electronics sales. The increase in earnings from operations for the three months ended March 31, 2018, compared to the same periods of 2017, was due to favorable product mix, led by marine electronics. •the timing of orders and shipments within a given fiscal quarter.
We face certain security threats and technology disruptions, including threats to our information technology infrastructure, attempts to gain access to our or our customers’ proprietary or classified information, threats to the physical security of our facilities and employees, threats of terrorism events, and failures of our technology tools and systems. We are subject to laws and rules issued by various agencies concerning safeguarding and maintaining infrastructure and physical security and information confidentiality. Our information technology networks and related systems are critical to the operation of our business and essential to our ability to successfully perform day-to-day operations. We are also involved with information technology systems for certain customers and other third parties, for which we face similar security threats as for our own. In particular, cybersecurity threats-which include, but are not limited to, computer viruses, spyware and malware, attempts to access information, denial of service attacks and other electronic security breaches-are persistent and evolve quickly. Such threats have increased in frequency, scope and potential impact 
Competition in the markets for our products is intense. The speed with which companies can identify new applications for thermal imaging, develop products to meet those needs and supply commercial quantities at low prices to the market are important competitive factors. We believe the principal competitive factors in our markets are product performance, price, customer service and training, product reputation, and effective marketing and sales efforts. Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, research and development, and marketing resources than we do. All of these factors, as well as the potential for increased competition from new market entrants, require us to continue to invest in, and focus on, research and development and new product innovation. No assurance can be given that we will be able to compete effectively in the future and a failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
in recent years. Further, a variety of technological tools and systems, including both company-owned information technology and technological services provided by outside parties, support our critical functions. These technologies, as well as our products, are subject to failure and the user’s inability to have such technologies properly supported, updated, expanded or integrated into other technologies and may contain open source and third party software which may unbeknownst to us contain defects or viruses that pose unintended risks to our customers. These risks if not effectively mitigated or controlled could materially harm our business or reputation. While we believe that we have implemented appropriate measures and controls, there can be no assurance that such actions will be sufficient to prevent disruptions to critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential information or corruption of data.