The Company’s chief operating decision maker ("CODM"), its Chief Executive Officer, evaluates each of its segments’ performance and allocates resources based on revenue and segment operating income. Intersegment revenues are recorded at cost and are eliminated in consolidation. The Company and each of its segments employ consistent accounting policies.
The following tables present revenue, operating income, and assets for the three segments. Operating income as reviewed by the CODM is revenue less cost of goods sold and operating expenses, excluding general corporate expenses, amortization of purchased intangible assets, amortization of acquisition-related inventory step-up, loss on sale of a business and restructuring and other charges. Net accounts receivable, inventories and demonstration assets for the operating segments are regularly reviewed by management and are reported below as segment assets. All remaining assets, liabilities, capital expenditures, and depreciation are managed on a Company-wide basis.
Note 18. Operating Segments and Related Information - (Continued)
Many contracts are subject to cancellation or suspension on short notice at the discretion of the customer, and the contracts in our backlog are subject to changes in the scope of services to be provided as well as adjustments to the costs relating to the contract. We have historically experienced variances in the components of backlog related to delivery delays or cancellations resulting from customer-specific circumstances, external market factors and economic factors beyond our control, and we may experience more 
On April 29, 2016, Raytheon filed a Notice of Appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit (the "Court of Appeals") of the denial by the District Court of Raytheon’s Renewed Motion for Judgment as a Matter of Law, or in the Alternative, Motion for New Trial. On May 11, 2016, the FLIR Parties filed a Notice of Appeal to the Court of Appeals of the Order of the District Court Denying the FLIR Parties’ Amended Rule 54(d) Motion for Attorneys’ Fees and Costs under the Texas Theft Liability Act, the Order Denying the FLIR Parties’ Renewed Motion for Judgment as a Matter of Law, and the Final Judgment to the extent it denied the FLIR Parties Attorneys’ Fees and Costs under the Texas Theft Liability Act. The Court of Appeals heard the matter on January 12, 2018, and on July 12, 2018 the Court of Appeals affirmed the rulings of the District Court and its finding of no liability on the part of the FLIR parties. The matter remains subject to appeal but as a result of the decision of the Court of Appeals, the Company believes that ultimate resolution of the matter will not result in material loss or gain to FLIR.
On April 3, 2018, the Company completed a transaction to acquire 100% of the outstanding stock of a startup technology company for approximately $7.1 million in cash. The allocation of the purchase price to identified intangible assets and goodwill is subject to the final determination of the valuation of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. The primary areas of the purchase price allocation that are not yet finalized relate to the valuation of intangible assets and related taxes. The final allocation of the purchase price to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed will be completed when the final assessments of the intangible assets and related taxes are completed during the year ended December 31, 2018. Goodwill and intangibles will be recorded in the Commercial business unit. The unallocated purchase price of approximately $7.1 million has been preliminarily reported in other assets as of June 30, 2018. 
Note 18. Operating Segments and Related Information - (Continued)
•the tendency of commercial enterprises to utilize fully annual capital budgets prior to expiration.
The Industrial business unit develops and manufactures thermal and visible-spectrum imaging camera cores and components that are utilized by third parties to create thermal, industrial, and other types of imaging systems. The segment also develops and manufactures devices that image, measure, and assess thermal energy, gases, and other environmental elements for industrial, commercial, and scientific applications, imaging payloads for Unmanned Aerial Systems ("UAS"), machine vision cameras, people counting and tracking, and thermal imaging solutions for use by consumers in the smartphone and mobile devices markets. Products include thermal imaging cameras, gas detection cameras, firefighting cameras, process automation cameras, and environmental test and measurement devices.
We face certain security threats and technology disruptions, including threats to our information technology infrastructure, attempts to gain access to our or our customers’ proprietary or classified information, threats to the physical security of our facilities and employees, threats of terrorism events, and failures of our technology tools and systems. We are subject to laws and rules issued by various agencies concerning safeguarding and maintaining infrastructure and physical security and information confidentiality. Our information technology networks and related systems are critical to the operation of our business and essential to our ability to successfully perform day-to-day operations. We are also involved with information technology systems for certain customers and other third parties, for which we face similar security threats as for our own. In particular, cybersecurity threats-which include, but are not limited to, computer viruses, spyware and malware, attempts to access information, denial of service attacks and other electronic security breaches-are persistent and evolve quickly. Such threats have increased in frequency, scope and potential impact 
Our future success depends in part on the efforts and continued services of our key executives and our ability to attract and retain qualified technical, sales and other personnel. Significant competition exists for such personnel and we cannot assure the retention of our key executives, technical and sales personnel or our ability to attract, integrate and retain other such personnel that may be required in the future. We cannot assure that employees will not leave and subsequently compete against us. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.Industrial business unit revenue for the quarter ended June 30, 2018 increased by 14.4 percent compared to the same period of 2017. Industrial business unit revenue for the six months ended June 30, 2018 increased by 12.4 percent compared to the same period of 2017. The increase in revenue for the three month period was predominately attributable to strength in the Instruments UAS, gas finders, science and automation product lines and sales to automotive OEMs. The increase in revenue for the six month period was predominately attributable to strong performance in the Instruments and OEM product lines. The increase in earnings from operations for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, compared to the same periods of 2017, was primarily due to strong revenue growth coupled with product mix in the Instruments and OEM products. 
Gross profit. Gross profit for the quarter ended June 30, 2018, was $232.6 million compared to $206.7 million for the same quarter last year. Gross profit for the six months ended June 30, 2018 was $450.5 million compared to $398.1 million for the six month period ended June 30, 2017. Gross margin, defined as gross profit divided by revenue, increased from 47.6 percent in the second quarter of 2017 to 51.4 percent in the second quarter of 2018 and increased from 47.3 percent for the six months ended June 30, 2017 to 50.5 percent during the six months ended June 30, 2018. The increase in gross margin for the three and six month periods was primarily due to strong volume growth and favorable product mix.
Research and development expenses. Research and development expenses for the second quarter of 2018 totaled $46.4 million, compared to $43.0 million in the second quarter of 2017. Research and development expenses in the first six months of 2018 were $91.0 million compared to $85.0 million for the first six months of 2017. Research and development expenses as a percentage of revenue were 10.3 percent for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 9.9 percent for the three months ended June 30, 2017. Research and development expenses as a percentage of revenue for the first six months of 2018 were 10.2 percent compared to 10.1 percent during the first six months of 2017. We have, and will continue to have, fluctuations in quarterly spending depending on product development needs and overall business spending priorities and believe that annual spending levels are most indicative of our commitment to research and development. Over the past five annual periods through December 31, 2017, our annual research and development expenses have varied between 8.5 percent and 9.9 percent of revenue, and we currently expect these expenses to remain within that approximate range, on an annual basis, for the foreseeable future.•the timing of orders and shipments within a given fiscal quarter.
We face certain security threats and technology disruptions, including threats to our information technology infrastructure, attempts to gain access to our or our customers’ proprietary or classified information, threats to the physical security of our facilities and employees, threats of terrorism events, and failures of our technology tools and systems. We are subject to laws and rules issued by various agencies concerning safeguarding and maintaining infrastructure and physical security and information confidentiality. Our information technology networks and related systems are critical to the operation of our business and essential to our ability to successfully perform day-to-day operations. We are also involved with information technology systems for certain customers and other third parties, for which we face similar security threats as for our own. In particular, cybersecurity threats-which include, but are not limited to, computer viruses, spyware and malware, attempts to access information, denial of service attacks and other electronic security breaches-are persistent and evolve quickly. Such threats have increased in frequency, scope and potential impact 
Competition in the markets for our products is intense. The speed with which companies can identify new applications for thermal imaging, develop products to meet those needs and supply commercial quantities at low prices to the market are important competitive factors. We believe the principal competitive factors in our markets are product performance, price, customer service and training, product reputation, and effective marketing and sales efforts. Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, research and development, and marketing resources than we do. All of these factors, as well as the potential for increased competition from new market entrants, require us to continue to invest in, and focus on, research and development and new product innovation. No assurance can be given that we will be able to compete effectively in the future and a failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
in recent years. Further, a variety of technological tools and systems, including both company-owned information technology and technological services provided by outside parties, support our critical functions. These technologies, as well as our products, are subject to failure and the user’s inability to have such technologies properly supported, updated, expanded or integrated into other technologies and may contain open source and third party software which may unbeknownst to us contain defects or viruses that pose unintended risks to our customers. These risks if not effectively mitigated or controlled could materially harm our business or reputation. While we believe that we have implemented appropriate measures and controls, there can be no assurance that such actions will be sufficient to prevent disruptions to critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential information or corruption of data.
We have made twelve acquisitions of various sizes in the past five years. The integration of businesses, personnel, product lines and technologies can be difficult, time consuming and subject to significant risks. For example, we could lose key personnel from 