Note 19. Operating Segments and Related Information - (Continued)
Note 19. Operating Segments and Related Information - (Continued)
The following tables present revenue, operating income, and assets for the three segments. Operating income as reviewed by the CODM is revenue less cost of goods sold and operating expenses, excluding general corporate expenses, amortization of purchased intangible assets, amortization of acquisition-related inventory step-up, loss on sale of a business and restructuring and other charges. Net accounts receivable, inventories and demonstration assets for the operating segments are regularly reviewed by management and are reported below as segment assets. All remaining assets, liabilities, capital expenditures, and depreciation are managed on a Company-wide basis.
The business acquisitions listed above are not significant as defined in Regulation S–X under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor are they significant compared to the Company's overall results of operations. Consequently, no pro forma financial information is provided.
SeaPilot AB. On October 16, 2018, the Company acquired substantially all of the outstanding shares of SeaPilot AB, a privately held technology company for approximately $4.6 million in cash. During the current quarter, the Company preliminarily recorded $2.4 million of identified intangible assets and $2.3 million of goodwill in the Commercial business unit. The final allocation of the purchase price to identified intangible assets, goodwill, and the related tax attributes is subject to final determination of fair value and is expected to be finalized during the third quarter of 2019.
The Industrial business unit develops and manufactures thermal and visible-spectrum imaging camera cores and components that are utilized by third parties to create thermal, industrial, and other types of imaging systems. The segment also develops and manufactures devices that image, measure, and assess thermal energy, gases, and other environmental elements for industrial, commercial, and scientific applications, imaging payloads for Unmanned Aerial Systems ("UAS"), machine vision cameras, people counting and tracking, and thermal imaging solutions for use by consumers in the smartphone and mobile devices markets. Products include thermal imaging cameras, gas detection cameras, firefighting cameras, process automation cameras, and environmental test and measurement devices.
See Note 20, "Business Acquisitions and Divestitures" for additional information on goodwill from acquisitions.
See Note 19, "Operating Segments and Related Information" for additional information on the carrying value of goodwill by operating segments. 
The Government and Defense business unit develops and manufactures enhanced imaging and recognition solutions for a wide variety of military, law enforcement, public safety, and other government customers around the world for the protection of borders, troops, and public welfare. The segment also develops and manufactures sensor instruments and integrated platform solutions for the detection, identification, and suppression of chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear, and explosives ("CBRNE") threats for military force protection, homeland security, and commercial applications. Offerings include airborne, land, maritime, and man-portable multi-spectrum imaging systems, radars, lasers, imaging components, integrated multi-sensor system platforms, CBRNE detectors, nano-class UAS solutions, and services related to these systems.
In July 2018, the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative announced a list of Chinese imports that currently face tariffs of between ten and twenty-five percent. These tariffs currently affect some of the components of our products we import from China, and we may raise our prices on those products due to the tariffs or share the cost of such tariffs with our customers, which could harm our operating performance or cause our customers to seek alternative suppliers. It is possible that further tariffs may be imposed on our other imports, or that our business will be impacted by retaliatory trade measures taken by China or other countries in response to existing or future tariffs, causing us to raise prices or make changes to our operations, any of which could materially harm our revenue or operating results. In addition, we may seek to shift some of our manufacturing supply chain to other countries, which could result in disruption to our operations.
The Company’s chief operating decision maker ("CODM"), its Chief Executive Officer, evaluates each of its segments’ performance and allocates resources based on revenue and segment operating income. Intersegment revenues are recorded at cost and are eliminated in consolidation. The Company and each of its segments employ consistent accounting policies.Revenue. Consolidated revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2019, increased by 6.5 percent year over year, from $452.7 million in the second quarter of 2018 to $482.0 million in the second quarter of 2019. Consolidated revenue for the six months ended June 30, 2019 increased by 3.9 percent year over year, from $892.3 million in the first six months of 2018 to $926.7 million in the first six months of 2019. Increases in revenues for the three month period was primarily driven by increases in our Government and Defense business unit which is partially attributed to the acquisitions of Aeryon Labs Inc. ("Aeryon") and Endeavor Robotics Holdings Inc. ("Endeavor") during the first quarter of 2019 coupled with volume increases of unmanned solutions and surveillance systems. Increases in revenues for the sixth month period were primarily driven by increases in our Government and Defense business unit as noted above, partially offset by declines in our Commercial business unit as a result of the divestiture of the Consumer and Small and Medium-sized ("SMB") Security businesses as announced in February 2018 and volume declines in the Maritime and Outdoor and Tactical Systems ("OTS") businesses. 
Government and Defense business unit revenue for the quarter ended June 30, 2019 increased by 22.7 percent compared to the same period of 2018. Government and Defense business unit revenue for the six months ended June 30, 2019 increased by 15.8 percent compared to the same period of 2018. The increase in revenue for the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2019, compared to the same periods of 2018, was primarily driven by the Aeryon and Endeavor acquisitions during the first quarter of 2019 and increased volumes of UAS products and surveillance systems. Earnings from operations are only up slightly for the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2019 compared to the same periods of 2018 while operating margins declined for the same periods due to the inclusion of the operating losses from the same acquisitions noted above. See Note 20, "Business Acquisitions and Divestitures," of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. The increase in 
Gross profit. Gross profit for the quarter ended June 30, 2019, was $233.6 million compared to $232.6 million for the same quarter last year. Gross profit for the six months ended June 30, 2019 was $467.3 million compared to $450.5 million for the six month period ended June 30, 2018. Gross margin, defined as gross profit divided by revenue, decreased from 51.4 percent in the second quarter of 2018 to 48.5 percent in the second quarter of 2019 and remained flat at 50.4 percent for the six months ended June 30, 2019 compared to 50.5 percent for the six months ended June 30, 2018. The decrease in gross margin for the three month period was primarily due to the change in product mix in our Government and Defense business unit due to the acquisitions as noted above, as well as the increase in amortization of acquired intangible assets recorded during the period. •the timing of orders and shipments within a given fiscal quarter.
Competition in the diverse markets for our products is intense. The speed with which companies can identify new applications for thermal imaging, develop products to meet those needs and supply commercial quantities at low prices to the market are important competitive factors. We believe the principal competitive factors in our markets are product performance, price, customer service and training, product reputation, and effective marketing and sales efforts. Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, research and development, and marketing resources than we do. All of these factors, as well as the potential for increased competition from new market entrants, require us to continue to invest in, and focus on, research and development and new product innovation. No assurance can be given that we will be able to compete effectively in the future and a failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
We face certain security threats and technology disruptions, including threats to our information technology infrastructure, attempts to gain access to our or our customers’ proprietary or classified information, threats to the physical security of our facilities and employees, threats of terrorism events, and failures of our technology tools and systems. We are subject to laws and rules issued by various agencies concerning safeguarding and maintaining infrastructure and physical security and information confidentiality. Our information technology networks and related systems are critical to the operation of our business and essential to our ability to successfully perform day-to-day operations. We are also involved with information technology systems for certain customers and other third parties, for which we face similar security threats as for our own. In particular, cybersecurity threats-which include, but are not limited to, computer viruses, spyware and malware, attempts to access information, denial of service attacks and other electronic security breaches-are persistent and evolve quickly. Such threats have increased in frequency, scope and potential impact in recent years. Further, a variety of technological tools and systems, including both company-owned information technology and technological services provided by outside parties, support our critical functions. These technologies, as well as our products, are subject to failure and the user’s inability to have such technologies properly supported, updated, expanded or integrated into other technologies and may contain open source and third party software which may unbeknownst to us contain defects or viruses that pose unintended risks to our customers. These risks if not effectively mitigated or controlled could materially harm our business or reputation. While we believe that we have implemented appropriate measures, controls, and risk transfer mechanisms, there can be no assurance that such actions will be sufficient to prevent disruptions to critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential information, corruption of data, or financial loss.
We have made twelve acquisitions of various sizes in the past five years. The integration of businesses, personnel, product lines and technologies can be difficult, time consuming and subject to significant risks. For example, we could lose key personnel from companies that we acquire, incur unanticipated costs, lose major sources of revenue, fail to integrate critical technologies, suffer business disruptions, fail to capture anticipated synergies, fail to establish satisfactory internal controls, or incur unanticipated liabilities. Any of these difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, increase our expenses and decrease our revenue.