Note 19. Operating Segments and Related Information - (Continued)
The following tables present revenue, operating income, and assets for the three segments. Operating income as reviewed by the CODM is revenue less cost of goods sold and operating expenses, excluding general corporate expenses, amortization of purchased intangible assets, amortization of acquisition-related inventory step-up, loss on sale of a business and restructuring and other charges. Net accounts receivable, inventories and demonstration assets for the operating segments are regularly reviewed by management and are reported below as segment assets. All remaining assets, liabilities, capital expenditures, and depreciation are managed on a Company-wide basis.
The Government and Defense business unit develops and manufactures enhanced imaging and recognition solutions for a wide variety of military, law enforcement, public safety, and other government customers around the world for the protection of borders, troops, and public welfare. The segment also develops and manufactures sensor instruments and integrated platform solutions for the detection, identification, and suppression of chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear, and explosives ("CBRNE") threats for military force protection, homeland security, and commercial applications. Offerings include airborne, land, maritime, and man-portable multi-spectrum imaging systems, radars, lasers, imaging components, integrated multi-sensor system platforms, CBRNE detectors, nano-class UAS solutions, and services related to these systems.
On March 4, 2019, the Company completed its acquisition of 100% of the outstanding stock of Endeavor Robotics Holdings, Inc. a privately held developer of battle-tested, tactical unmanned ground vehicles for the global military, public safety, and critical infrastructure markets for approximately $386.8 million in cash. The allocation of the purchase price to identified intangible assets and goodwill is subject to the final determination of the valuation of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. The primary areas of the purchase price allocation that are not yet finalized relate to the valuation of intangible assets and related taxes. The final allocation of the purchase price to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed will be completed when the final assessments of the intangible assets and related taxes are completed during the second half of 2019. Goodwill and intangibles will be recorded in the Government and Defense business unit. The preliminary unallocated purchase price of approximately $368.0 million has been reported in unallocated assets from acquisitions as of March 31, 2019. 
The Industrial business unit develops and manufactures thermal and visible-spectrum imaging camera cores and components that are utilized by third parties to create thermal, industrial, and other types of imaging systems. The segment also develops and manufactures devices that image, measure, and assess thermal energy, gases, and other environmental elements for industrial, commercial, and scientific applications, imaging payloads for Unmanned Aerial Systems ("UAS"), machine vision cameras, people counting and tracking, and thermal imaging solutions for use by consumers in the smartphone and mobile devices markets. Products include thermal imaging cameras, gas detection cameras, firefighting cameras, process automation cameras, and environmental test and measurement devices.
Note 19. Operating Segments and Related Information - (Continued)
Property and equipment are net of accumulated depreciation of $341.0 million and $333.4 million at March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.
Note 19. Operating Segments and Related Information - (Continued)
In July 2018, the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative announced a list of Chinese imports that currently face tariffs of between ten and twenty-five percent. These tariffs currently affect some of the components of our products we import from China, and we may raise our prices on those products due to the tariffs or share the cost of such tariffs with our customers, which could harm our operating performance or cause our customers to seek alternative suppliers. It is possible that further tariffs may be imposed on our other imports, or that our business will be impacted by retaliatory trade measures taken by China or other countries in response to existing or future tariffs, causing us to raise prices or make changes to our operations, any of which could materially harm our revenue or operating results. In addition, we may seek to shift some of our manufacturing supply chain to other countries, which could result in disruption to our operations.
On April 18, 2019, the Company’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.17 per share on its common stock, payable on June 7, 2019, to shareholders of record as of the close of business on May 24, 2019. The total cash payment of this dividend will be approximately $23.0 million.
The Company classifies interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in the income tax provision. As of March 31, 2019, the Company had $6.2 million of accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits that are recorded as current and non-current accrued income taxes on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Although we have taken actions and continue to take additional actions necessary to implement policies and procedures to promote an improved compliance culture and programs, there is no guarantee that our actions will be effective or that government agencies will not view our actions and programs with heightened scrutiny, including as a result of events outside of our control. As a result, we may receive more restrictive provisos or limitations on new license requests, wholesale denials of our license requests, suspensions or terminations of our existing licenses, or delays in receiving new licenses resulting from requests for follow-up Revenue. Consolidated revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2019, increased by 1.2 percent year over year, from $439.6 million in the first quarter of 2018 to $444.7 million in the first quarter of 2019. Increases in revenues for the three month period in our Industrial and Government and Defense business units were partially offset by declines in the Commercial business unit.
Gross profit. Gross profit for the quarter ended March 31, 2019, was $233.7 million compared to $217.9 million for the same quarter last year. Gross margin, defined as gross profit divided by revenue, increased from 49.6 percent in the first quarter of 2018 to 52.5 percent in the first quarter of 2019. The increase in gross margin for the three and nine month periods was primarily due to product mix in the Government and Defense business unit and product mix and productivity improvement in the Industrial business unit. 
Government and Defense business unit revenue for the quarter ended March 31, 2019 increased by 8.8 percent compared to the same period of 2018. The increase in both revenue and earnings from operations for the three month period ended March 31, 2019, compared to the same period of 2018, was primarily driven by increased volumes of UAS products and surveillance systems as well as the partial period revenue related to the acquisitions of Aeryon Labs Inc. and Endeavor Robotics Holdings Inc. during the quarter ended March 31, 2019. The decline in operating margin for the three month period ended March 31, 2019, compared to the same period of 2018 is also attributed to the inclusion of the results from these acquisitions. See Note 20, "Business Acquisitions and Divestitures," for further information. The increase in year-over-year backlog is primarily driven by timing of orders and subsequent timing of deployment of major programs in addition to the first quarter of 2019 acquisitions as noted above. •the timing of orders and shipments within a given fiscal quarter.
Competition in the diverse markets for our products is intense. The speed with which companies can identify new applications for thermal imaging, develop products to meet those needs and supply commercial quantities at low prices to the market are important competitive factors. We believe the principal competitive factors in our markets are product performance, price, customer service and training, product reputation, and effective marketing and sales efforts. Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, research and development, and marketing resources than we do. All of these factors, as well as the potential for increased competition from new market entrants, require us to continue to invest in, and focus on, research and development and new product innovation. No assurance can be given that we will be able to compete effectively in the future and a failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
We face certain security threats and technology disruptions, including threats to our information technology infrastructure, attempts to gain access to our or our customers’ proprietary or classified information, threats to the physical security of our facilities and employees, threats of terrorism events, and failures of our technology tools and systems. We are subject to laws and rules issued by various agencies concerning safeguarding and maintaining infrastructure and physical security and information confidentiality. Our information technology networks and related systems are critical to the operation of our business and essential to our ability to successfully perform day-to-day operations. We are also involved with information technology systems for certain customers and other third parties, for which we face similar security threats as for our own. In particular, cybersecurity threats-which include, but are not limited to, computer viruses, spyware and malware, attempts to access information, denial of service attacks and other electronic security breaches-are persistent and evolve quickly. Such threats have increased in frequency, scope and potential impact in recent years. Further, a variety of technological tools and systems, including both company-owned information technology and technological services provided by outside parties, support our critical functions. These technologies, as well as our products, are subject to failure and the user’s inability to have such technologies properly supported, updated, expanded or integrated into other technologies and may contain open source and third party software which may unbeknownst to us contain defects or viruses that pose unintended risks to our customers. These risks if not effectively mitigated or controlled could materially harm our business or reputation. While we believe that we have implemented appropriate measures, controls, and risk transfer mechanisms, there can be no assurance that such actions will be sufficient to prevent disruptions to critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential information, corruption of data, or financial loss.
We have made eleven acquisitions of various sizes in the past five years. The integration of businesses, personnel, product lines and technologies can be difficult, time consuming and subject to significant risks. For example, we could lose key personnel from companies that we acquire, incur unanticipated costs, lose major sources of revenue, fail to integrate critical technologies, suffer business disruptions, fail to capture anticipated synergies, fail to establish satisfactory internal controls, or incur unanticipated liabilities. Any of these difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, increase our expenses and decrease our revenue.