fls.txt



item1.txt
All such adjustments are considered of a normal recurring nature.
Certain footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP") have been condensed or omitted.
The condensed consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2017 was derived from the audited consolidated balance sheet at that date.
The condensed consolidated financial statements of CPSI include the accounts of TruBridge, LLC ("TruBridge"), Evident, LLC ("Evident"), and Healthland Holding Inc. ("HHI"), all of which are wholly-owned subsidiaries of CPSI.
The accounts of HHI include those of its wholly-owned subsidiaries, Healthland Inc. ("Healthland"), Rycan Technologies, Inc. ("Rycan"), and American HealthTech, Inc. ("AHT").
All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
Effective January 1, 2018, our interface services team, which provides the design, development, implementation, and support services for all interfaces for data exchange from the CPSI applications, was previously considered a part of our product development division and has been integrated with our acute care client service team.
This transition will work to create a consistent, personal, and convenient service experience for our clients characterized by transparent communication with prompt resolution.
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, to clarify the principles for recognizing revenue and to develop a common revenue standard for U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards.
The standard outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers and supersedes prior revenue recognition guidance.
Rycan implementation fees totaled $1.6 million in 2017, less than 1% of our 2017 revenues.
The balance sheet impact of the deferred revenue related to these fees was an increase of $1.8 million as of the date of adoption.


item2.txt
Our companies currently support approximately 1,100 acute care facilities and approximately 3,500 post-acute care facilities with a geographically diverse customer mix within the domestic community healthcare market.
We also expect to drive revenue growth from new product development that we may generate from our research and development activities.
Using best practices of the combined companies' implementation processes, we have decreased travel costs for our acute-care installations by approximately 25%.
Accordingly, we recognize that prospective hospital clients often do not have the necessary capital to make investments in information technology.
Additionally, in response to these challenges, hospitals have become more selective regarding where they invest capital, resulting in a focus on strategic spending that generates a return on their investment.
Despite these challenges, we believe healthcare information technology is often viewed as more strategically beneficial to hospitals than other possible purchases because the technology also plays an important role in healthcare by improving safety and efficiency and reducing costs.
Additionally, we believe most hospitals recognize that they must invest in healthcare information technology to meet current and future regulatory, compliance and government reimbursement requirements.
In recent years, there have been significant changes to provider reimbursement by the U.S. federal government, followed by commercial payers and state governments.
We have historically made financing arrangements available to clients on a case-by-case basis depending upon the various aspects of the proposed contract and customer attributes.
These financing arrangements include short-term payment plans and longer-term lease financing through us or third-party financing companies.
During 2017, total financing receivables increased by $15.5 million, which had a significant impact on operating cash flow.
The increase in financing arrangements was primarily due to two reasons.
We have also historically made our software applications available to clients through "Software as a Service" or "SaaS" configurations, including our Cloud Electronic Health Record ("Cloud EHR") offering.
Similarly, compliance with the meaningful use rules has accelerated the purchases of incremental applications by our existing clients.
Consequently, our penetration rates within our existing customer base for our current menu of applications have increased significantly under the ARRA, thereby significantly narrowing the market for add-on sales to existing clients.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Item 4.Controls and Procedures.


part2.txt
Item 1.Legal Proceedings.


