fls.txt



item1.txt
All such adjustments are considered of a normal recurring nature.
Certain footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP") have been condensed or omitted.
The condensed consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2017 was derived from the audited consolidated balance sheet at that date.
The condensed consolidated financial statements of CPSI include the accounts of TruBridge, LLC ("TruBridge"), Evident, LLC ("Evident"), and Healthland Holding Inc. ("HHI"), all of which are wholly-owned subsidiaries of CPSI.
The accounts of HHI include those of its wholly-owned subsidiaries, Healthland Inc. ("Healthland"), Rycan Technologies, Inc. ("Rycan"), and American HealthTech, Inc. ("AHT").
All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
Effective January 1, 2018, our interface services team, which provides the design, development, implementation, and support services for all interfaces for data exchange from the CPSI applications and was previously considered a part of our product development division, has been integrated with our acute care client service team.
This transition has worked to create a consistent, personal, and convenient service experience for our clients characterized by transparent communication with prompt resolution.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, to clarify the principles for recognizing revenue and to develop a common revenue standard for U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards.
The standard outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers and supersedes prior revenue recognition guidance.
Rycan implementation fees totaled $1.6 million in 2017, less than 1% of our 2017 revenues.


item2.txt
Our companies currently support approximately 1,100 acute care facilities and approximately 3,500 post-acute care facilities with a geographically diverse customer mix within the domestic community healthcare market.
Important to our potential for continued long-term revenue growth is our ability to sell new and additional products and services to our existing customer base, including cross-selling opportunities presented with the acquisition of Healthland Holding Inc. ("HHI"), the parent company of Healthland, AHT and Rycan Technologies, Inc. We believe that as our combined customer base grows, the demand for additional products and services, including business management, consulting and managed IT services, will also continue to grow, supporting further increases in recurring revenues.
We also expect to drive revenue growth from new product development that we may generate from our research and development activities.
This acquisition expanded our footprint for servicing acute care facilities and introduced us to the post-acute care segment, adding significantly to our already substantial recurring revenue base and further expanding our ability to generate organic recurring revenue growth through additional cross-selling opportunities now available within the combined company.
Once a hospital has installed our solutions, we continue to provide support services to the customer on an ongoing basis and make available to the customer our broad portfolio of business management, consulting, and managed IT services.
Using best practices of the combined companies' implementation processes, we have decreased travel costs for our acute-care installations by approximately 25%.
Accordingly, we recognize that prospective hospital clients often do not have the necessary capital to make investments in information technology.
Additionally, in response to these challenges, hospitals have become more selective regarding where they invest capital, resulting in a focus on strategic spending that generates a return on their investment.
Despite these challenges, we believe healthcare information technology is often viewed as more strategically beneficial to hospitals than other possible purchases because the technology also plays an important role in healthcare by improving safety and efficiency and reducing costs.
Additionally, we believe most hospitals recognize that they must invest in healthcare information technology to meet current and future regulatory, compliance and government reimbursement requirements.
In recent years, there have been significant changes to provider reimbursement by the U.S. federal government, followed by commercial payers and state governments.
We have historically made financing arrangements available to clients on a case-by-case basis depending upon the various aspects of the proposed contract and customer attributes.
These financing arrangements include short-term payment plans and longer-term lease financing through us or third-party financing companies.
For those clients not seeking a financing arrangement, the payment schedule of the typical contract is structured to provide for a scheduling deposit due at contract signing, with the remainder of the contracted fees due at various stages of the installation process (delivery of hardware, installation of software and commencement of training, and satisfactory completion of a monthly accounting cycle or end-of-month operation by each respective application, as applicable).
During 2017, total financing receivables increased by $15.5 million, which had a significant impact on operating cash flow.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Item 4.Controls and Procedures.


part2.txt
Item 1.Legal Proceedings.


