fls.txt



item1.txt
All such adjustments are considered of a normal recurring nature.
The condensed consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2018 was derived from the audited consolidated balance sheet at that date.
The accounts of HHI include those of its wholly-owned subsidiaries, Healthland Inc. ("Healthland"), Rycan Technologies, Inc. ("Rycan"), and American HealthTech, Inc. ("AHT").
All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
The new guidance requires the recognition of lease assets and lease liabilities by lessees for those leases classified as operating leases under previous U.S. GAAP.
This guidance will be effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those years beginning after December 15, 2019, which is effective for the Company as of the first quarter of our fiscal year ending December 31, 2020.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact that the implementation of this standard will have on its financial statements.
The SSP of hardware is cost plus a reasonable margin.
•Software application support and hardware maintenance services sold with software licenses and hardware are separate and distinct performance obligations.
Payment is due monthly for support services provided.
•Software as a Service ("SaaS") arrangements for EHR software and related conversion and training services are considered a single performance obligation.
Payment is due monthly for SaaS services provided.
Revenue from professional services is recognized as the services are performed based on SSP.


item2.txt
Our clients primarily consist of community hospitals with fewer than 200 acute care beds, with hospitals having fewer than 100 beds comprising approximately 98% of our acute care EHR client base.
See Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements included herein for additional information on our three reportable segments.
As a result, we are placing ever-increasing value in further developing our already significant recurring revenue base.
As such, maintaining and growing recurring revenues are additional key components of our long-term growth strategy, aided by the aforementioned focus on customer retention, and include a renewed focus on driving demand for subscriptions for our existing technology solutions.
Our business model is designed such that, as revenue growth materializes, earnings and profitability growth are naturally bolstered through the increased margin realization afforded us by operating leverage.
For example, during the first quarter of 2018, we further integrated our acute care product lines into a combined client support group.
Using best practices of the combined companies' implementation processes, we have decreased travel costs for our acute care installations by approximately 25%.
Accordingly, we recognize that prospective hospital clients often do not have the necessary capital to make investments in information technology.
Additionally, in response to these challenges, hospitals have become more selective regarding where they invest capital, resulting in a focus on strategic spending that generates a return on their investment.
During 2018, total financing receivables increased by $7.8 million which had a significant impact on operating cash flow.
This increase in financing arrangements was primarily due to two reasons.
We expect positive cash flows from financing receivables during 2019 as cash receipts from MU3 installations in the previous year are received.
We have also historically made our software applications available to clients through "Software as a Service" or "SaaS" configurations, including our Cloud Electronic Health Record ("Cloud EHR") offering.
Unlike our perpetual license arrangements under which the related revenue is recognized effectively upon installation, the SaaS arrangements result in revenue being recognized monthly as the services are provided over the term of the arrangement.


item3.txt
Our exposure to market risk relates primarily to the potential change in the British Bankers Association London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR").


item4.txt
Item 4.Mine Safety Disclosures.


part2.txt
Item 1.Legal Proceedings.


