fls.txt



item1.txt
All such adjustments are considered of a normal recurring nature.
Certain footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP") have been condensed or omitted.
The condensed consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2018 was derived from the audited consolidated balance sheet at that date.
The new guidance requires the recognition of lease assets and lease liabilities by lessees for those leases classified as operating leases under previous U.S. GAAP.
This guidance will be effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those years beginning after December 15, 2019, which is effective for the Company as of the first quarter of our fiscal year ending December 31, 2020.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact that the implementation of this standard will have on its consolidated financial statements.
The SSP of hardware is cost plus a reasonable margin.
•Software application support and hardware maintenance services sold with software licenses and hardware are separate and distinct performance obligations.
Payment is due monthly for support services provided.
•Software as a Service ("SaaS") arrangements for EHR software and related conversion and training services are considered a single performance obligation.
Payment is due monthly for SaaS services provided.


item2.txt
This discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
The provision of these recurring revenue services typically requires fewer resources than the initial system installation, resulting in increased overall gross margins and operating margins.
Accordingly, we recognize that prospective hospital clients often do not have the necessary capital to make investments in information technology.
Additionally, in response to these challenges, hospitals have become more selective regarding where they invest capital, resulting in a focus on strategic spending that generates a return on their investment.
Additionally, we believe most hospitals recognize that they must invest in healthcare information technology to meet current and future regulatory, compliance and government reimbursement requirements.
In recent years, there have been significant changes to provider reimbursement by the U.S. federal government, followed by commercial payers and state governments.
We have historically made financing arrangements available to clients on a case-by-case basis, depending upon the various aspects of the proposed contract and customer attributes.
These financing arrangements include short-term payment plans and longer-term lease financing through us or third-party financing companies.
During 2018, total financing receivables increased by $7.8 million, which had a significant impact on operating cash flow.
This increase in financing arrangements was primarily due to two reasons.
First, meaningful use stage three ("MU3") installations are primarily financed through short-term payment plans and demand for such installation has increased since late 2017.
Second, competitor financing options, primarily through accounts receivable management collections and cloud EHR arrangements, have applied pressure to reduce initial customer capital investment requirements for new EHR installations, leading to the offering of long-term lease options.
We have experienced an increase in the prevalence of such SaaS arrangements for new system installations and add-on sales to existing clients since 2015, a trend we expect to continue for the foreseeable future.
In addition, during the first six months of 2019, we incurred approximately $0.4 million of pre-tax acquisition costs in connection with the acquisition of Get Real Health.
Revenues.
Total revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2019 decreased by $1.7 million, or 3%, compared to the three months ended June 30, 2018.


item3.txt



item4.txt
On May 3, 2019, we acquired Get Real Health, as further described in Note 4 of the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements.


part2.txt
Item 1.Legal Proceedings.


