fls.txt



item1.txt
All such adjustments are considered of a normal recurring nature.
Certain footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP") have been condensed or omitted.
The condensed consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2017 was derived from the audited consolidated balance sheet at that date.
The condensed consolidated financial statements of CPSI include the accounts of TruBridge, LLC ("TruBridge"), Evident, LLC ("Evident"), and Healthland Holding Inc. ("HHI"), all of which are wholly-owned subsidiaries of CPSI.
The accounts of HHI include those of its wholly-owned subsidiaries, Healthland Inc. ("Healthland"), Rycan Technologies, Inc. ("Rycan"), and American HealthTech, Inc. ("AHT").
All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
Effective January 1, 2018, our interface services team, which provides the design, development, implementation, and support services for all interfaces for data exchange from the CPSI applications, was previously considered a part of our product development division and has been integrated with our acute care client service team.
These reclassification had no effect on previously reported total sales revenues, operating income, income before taxes or net income.
Rycan implementation fees totaled $1.6 million in 2017, less than 1% of our 2017 revenues.
The balance sheet impact of the prepaid assets was an increase of $3.8 million as of the date of adoption.
In total, the adoption of ASU 2014-09 resulted in a net increase in retained earnings of $2.0 million as of the date of adoption.
In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-15, Classifications of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments, which clarifies cash flow classification for eight specific issues, including debt prepayment or extinguishment costs, contingent consideration payments made after a business combination, proceeds from the settlement of insurance claims, and proceeds from settlement of corporate-owned life insurance policies.
The new guidance will require the recognition of lease assets and lease liabilities by lessees for those leases classified as operating leases under previous U.S. GAAP.


item2.txt
opportunities now available within the combined company.
The provision of these services typically requires fewer resources than the initial system installation, resulting in increased overall gross margins.
Additionally, healthcare organizations with a large dependency on Medicare and Medicaid populations, such as community hospitals, have been affected by the challenging financial condition of the federal government and many state governments and government programs.
Accordingly, we recognize that prospective hospital clients often do not have the necessary capital to make investments in information technology.
Additionally, in response to these challenges, hospitals have become more selective regarding where they invest capital, resulting in a focus on strategic spending that generates a return on their investment.
Despite these challenges, we believe healthcare information technology is often viewed as more strategically beneficial to hospitals than other possible purchases because the technology also plays an important role in healthcare by improving safety and efficiency and reducing costs.
Additionally, we believe most hospitals recognize that they must invest in healthcare information technology to meet current and future regulatory, compliance and government reimbursement requirements.
In recent years, there have been significant changes to provider reimbursement by the U.S. federal government, followed by commercial payers and state governments.
We have historically made financing arrangements available to customers on a case-by-case basis depending upon the various aspects of the proposed contract and customer attributes.
These financing arrangements include other short-term payment plans and longer-term lease financing through us or third-party financing companies.
During 2017, total financing receivables increased by $15.5 million, which had a significant impact on operating cash flow.
The increase in financing arrangements is primarily due to two reasons.
Revenues.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Item 4.Mine Safety Disclosures.


part2.txt
Item 1.Legal Proceedings.
Item 1A.Risk Factors.


