fls.txt



item1.txt
 In May 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-09, “Scope of Modification Accounting”, to reduce diversity in practice and provide clarity regarding existing guidance in ASC 718, “Stock Compensation”. The amendments in this updated guidance clarify that an entity should apply modification accounting in response to a change in the terms and conditions of an entity’s share-based payment awards unless three newly specified criteria are met. This guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within that reporting period. The new guidance was effective for the Company on a prospective basis beginning on January 1, 2018 and did not impact the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements as it is not the Company’s practice to change either the terms or conditions of stock-based payment awards once they are granted.  
  In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-12, Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815) – Targeted Improvements to Accounting for Hedging Activities, which improves the financial reporting of hedging relationships to better portray the economic results of an entity’s risk management activities in its financial statements. The amendments in this update also make certain targeted improvements to simplify the application of the hedge accounting guidance in current U.S. GAAP. ASU No. 2017-12 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years; the ASU allows for early adoption in any interim period after issuance of the update. The Company is currently assessing the impact this ASU will have on its consolidated financial statements.  
 In June 2018, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2018-07, “Compensation — Stock Compensation (Topic 718), Improvements to Nonemployee Share-Based Payment Accounting,” which aligns the measurement and classification guidance for share-based payments to nonemployees with that for employees, with certain exceptions. It expands the scope of ASC 718 to include share-based payments granted to nonemployees in exchange for goods or services used or consumed in the entity’s own operations and supersedes the guidance in ASC 505-50. The ASU retains the existing cost attribution guidance, which requires entities to recognize compensation cost for nonemployee awards in the same period and in the same manner (i.e., capitalize or expense) they would if they paid cash for the goods or services, but it moves the guidance to ASC 718. The guidance also allows nonpublic entities to account for nonemployee awards using certain practical expedients that are already available for employee awards, but the same accounting policies must be used for awards to both employees and nonemployees. ASU 2018-07 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of adopting this guidance.  
 In July 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-09 – Codification Improvements, which facilitates amendments to a variety of topics to clarify, correct errors in, or make minor improvements to the accounting standards codification. The effective date of the standard is dependent on the facts and circumstances of each amendment. Some amendments do not require transition guidance and will be effective upon the issuance of this standard. A majority of the amendments in ASU 2018-09 will be effective in annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018. We will be required to adopt this standard in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. This standard is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.  
 Assets and liabilities of the Company’s foreign subsidiaries have been translated using the end of the reporting period exchange rates, and related revenues and expenses have been translated at average rates of exchange in effect during the period. Foreign currency transaction gains and losses are recorded as income or expenses as amounts are settled. The net sales from our foreign operations for the first nine months of 2018 were $13.9 million as compared to $14.1 million in the first nine months of 2017. The net sales from our foreign operations for the third quarter of 2018 were $4.0 million as compared to $4.6 million in the third quarter of 2017.   
 Identification of the contract, or contracts, with a customer — A contract with a customer exists when (i) we enter into an enforceable contract with a customer that defines each party’s rights regarding the goods or services to be transferred and identifies the payment terms related to these goods or services, (ii) the contract has commercial substance and, (iii) we determine that collection of substantially all consideration for goods or services that are transferred is probable based on the customer’s intent and ability to pay the promised consideration. We apply judgment in determining the customer’s ability and intention to pay, which is based on a variety of factors including the customer’s historical payment experience or, in the case of a new customer, published credit and financial information pertaining to the customer. The Company considers customer purchase orders, which in some cases are governed by master agreements or general terms and conditions of sale, to be contracts with customers. All revenue is generated from contracts with customers.   
 Identification of the performance obligations in the contract — Performance obligations promised in a contract are identified based on the goods or services that will be transferred to the customer that are capable of being distinct, whereby the customer can benefit from the goods or service either on its own or together with other resources that are readily available from third parties or from us, and are distinct in the context of the contract, whereby the transfer of the goods or services is separately identifiable from other promises in the contract. To the extent a contract includes multiple promised goods or services, we apply judgment to determine whether promised goods or services are capable of being distinct in the context of the contract. If these criteria are not met the promised goods or services are accounted for as a combined performance obligation.  
 Allocation of the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract — If the contract contains a single performance obligation, the entire transaction price is allocated to the single performance obligation. Contracts that contain multiple performance obligations require an allocation of the transaction price to each performance obligation based on a relative standalone selling price, or SSP, basis. We determine standalone SSP based on the price at which the performance obligation is sold separately. If the standalone selling price is not observable through established standard prices, we use judgement and estimate the standalone selling price taking into account available information such as market pricing and pricing related to similar products. Contracts with a significant financing component are discounted to their present value at contract inception and accreted up to the expected payment amounts. These contracts generally offer customers extended payment terms of up to three years.  
 Hardware and software product - Hardware product consists of sales of hardware manufactured by third parties. Hardware product is delivered from our warehouse or drop shipped directly from the vendor. Revenue from our hardware products is recognized on a gross basis, with the selling price to the customer as net sales, and the cost of the related product as cost of sales, upon transfer of control to the customer, as the Company is acting a principal in the transaction. Control is generally deemed to have passed to the customer upon transfer of title and risk of ownership.  
separate performance obligation. In cases where the software maintenance is not distinct from the related software license, it is accounted for as a single performance obligation with the related license. We utilize judgement in determining whether the maintenance is distinct from the software itself. This involves considering if the software provides its original intended functionality without the updates, or is dependent on frequent, or continuous updates to maintain its functionality. See Allocation of the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract for a discussion of the allocation of maintenance and support costs when they are distinct from the related software licenses and Software - security and highly interdependent with support for a discussion of maintenance and support costs when they are not distinct from the related software license.  
 Maintenance, support and other services revenue - Maintenance, support and other services revenue consists of third-party post-contract support that is not critical or essential to the core functionality of the related licensed software, and, to a lesser extent, from third-party professional services, software as a service, and cloud subscriptions. Revenue from maintenance, support and other service revenues is recognized on a net basis, upon fulfillment of an order to the customer, as the Company is an agent in the transaction, and its performance obligations are complete at the time a valid order between the parties is processed.  
 Contract balances -Accounts receivable is recorded at the invoiced amount, net of an allowance for doubtful accounts and returns. A receivable is recognized in the period we deliver goods or provide services or when our right to consideration is unconditional. Payment terms on invoiced amounts are typically 30-75 days. The balance of accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful accounts and returns, as of December 31, 2017 and September 30, 2018 is presented in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheets. Accounts receivable-long-term result from product sales with extended payment terms that are discounted to their present values at the Company’s estimates of prevailing market rates at the time of the sale. The Company has determined that these amounts do not represent variable consideration as the amount earned is fixed. In subsequent periods, the accounts receivable is increased to the amounts due and payable by the customers through the accretion of interest income on the unpaid accounts receivable due in future years. The amounts due under these long-term accounts receivable due within one year are reclassified to the current portion of accounts receivable and are shown net of reserves. As our revenues are generally recognized at a point in time in the same period as they are billed, we have no deferred revenue balances. Provisions for doubtful accounts including long-term accounts receivable and returns are estimated based on historical write offs, sales returns and credit memo analysis which are adjusted to actual on a periodic basis.  


item2.txt
 The Company is organized into two reportable operating segments. The “Lifeboat Distribution” segment distributes technical software to corporate resellers, value added resellers (VARs), consultants and systems integrators worldwide. The “TechXtend” segment is a value-added reseller of software, hardware and services for corporations, government organizations and academic institutions in the USA and Canada.  
 We derive the majority of our net sales though the sale of third party software licenses, maintenance and service agreements. In our Lifeboat distribution segment, sales are impacted by the number of product lines we distribute, and sales penetration of those products into the reseller channel. In our TechXtend segment sales are generally driven by sales force effectiveness and success in providing superior customer service, competitive pricing, and flexible payment solutions to our customers. Our sales are also impacted by external factors such as levels of IT spending and customer demand for products we distribute.  
 Dividend Policy and Share Repurchase Program. Historically we have sought to return value to investors through the payment of quarterly dividends and share repurchases. Total dividends paid and shares repurchased were $0.8 million and $0.02 million for the quarter ended September 30, 2018, respectively, and $0.8 million and $0.1 million for the quarter 
 We adopted ASC 606 Revenue from Contracts with Customers on retrospective basis effective January 1, 2018. Under ASC 606 net sales for certain maintenance, service and security products we sell are recorded net of the related cost of sales. We refer to these items as being recorded on a “net basis” in the discussion below. Software and hardware products for which sales and cost of sales are reported on separate line items are referred to as being recorded on a gross basis.  
 The Company adopted ASC 606 Revenue from Contracts with customers using the full retrospective method effective January 1, 2018. See Note 5 to the accompanying financial statements for further information. The Company makes estimates regarding performance obligations inherent in the products and services it sells including, whether ongoing maintenance obligations performed by third party vendors are distinct from the related software licenses, and allocation of sales prices among distinct performance obligations. These estimates require significant judgement to determine whether the software’s functionality is dependent on ongoing maintenance or if substantially all functionality is available in the original software download. We also use judgement in the allocation of sales proceeds among performance obligations, utilizing observable data such as stand-alone selling prices, or market pricing for similar products and services.  
 The Company writes down its inventory for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated market value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory write-offs may be required.  
 The Company has considered future taxable income and ongoing prudent and feasible tax planning strategies in assessing the need for the valuation allowance related to deferred tax assets. In the event the Company were to determine that it would not be able to realize all or part of its net deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would be charged to income in the period such determination was made.  
 In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases ("ASU 2016-02"). ASU 2016-02 supersedes the lease guidance under FASB ASC Topic 840, Leases, resulting in the creation of FASB ASC Topic 842, Leases. ASU 2016-02 requires a lessee to recognize in the statement of financial position a liability to make lease payments and a right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying asset for the lease term. Leases will be classified as either finance or operating leases with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition in the statement of earnings. This ASU is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2018. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently assessing the potential impact of adopting ASU 2016-02 on its consolidated financial statements. It is expected that assets and liabilities will increase as a result of the adoption of this standard.  
 In May 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-09, “Scope of Modification Accounting”, to reduce diversity in practice and provide clarity regarding existing guidance in ASC 718, “Stock Compensation”. The amendments in this updated guidance clarify that an entity should apply modification accounting in response to a change in the terms and conditions of an entity’s share-based payment awards unless three newly specified criteria are met. This guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within that reporting period. The new guidance was effective for the Company on a prospective basis beginning on January 1, 2018 and did not impact the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements as it is not the Company’s practice to change either the terms or conditions of stock-based payment awards once they are granted.  
 In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-12, Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815) – Targeted Improvements to Accounting for Hedging Activities, which improves the financial reporting of hedging relationships to better portray the economic results of an entity’s risk management activities in its financial statements. The amendments in this update also make certain targeted improvements to simplify the application of the hedge accounting guidance in current U.S. GAAP. ASU No. 2017-12 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years; the ASU allows for early adoption in any interim period after issuance of the update. The Company is currently assessing the impact this ASU will have on its consolidated financial statements.  
 In June 2018, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2018-07, “Compensation — Stock Compensation (Topic 718), Improvements to Nonemployee Share-Based Payment Accounting,” which aligns the measurement and classification guidance for share-based payments to nonemployees with that for employees, with certain exceptions. It expands the scope of ASC 718 to include share-based payments granted to nonemployees in exchange for goods or services used or consumed in the entity’s own operations and supersedes the guidance in ASC 505-50. The ASU retains the existing cost attribution guidance, which requires entities to recognize compensation cost for nonemployee awards in the same period and in the same manner (i.e., capitalize or expense) they would if they paid cash for the goods or services, but it moves the guidance to ASC 718. The guidance also allows nonpublic entities to account for nonemployee awards using certain practical expedients that are already available for employee awards, but the same accounting policies must be used for awards to both employees and nonemployees. ASU 2018-07 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of adopting this guidance.  
 We define adjusted gross billings as net sales in accordance with U.S. GAAP, adjusted for the cost of sales related to Software – security or highly interdependent with support and maintenance, support or other services. We provided a reconciliation of adjusted gross billings to net sales, which is the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure. We use adjusted gross billings of product and services as a supplemental measure of our performance to gain insight into the volume of business generated by our business, and to analyze the changes to our accounts receivable and accounts payable. Our use of adjusted gross billings of product and services as analytical tools has limitations, and you should not consider it in isolation or as substitutes for analysis of our financial results as reported under U.S. GAAP. In addition, other companies, including companies in our industry, might calculate Adjusted gross billings of product and services or similarly titled measures differently, which may reduce their usefulness as comparative measures.  
 We use net income excluding separation payments as a supplemental measure of our performance to gain insight into comparison of our businesses profitability when compared to the prior year. Our use of net income excluding separation expenses, net of tax has limitations, and you should not consider it in isolation or as substitutes for analysis of our financial results as reported under U.S. GAAP. In addition, other companies, including companies in our industry, might calculate separation expenses net of tax, or similarly titled measures differently, which may reduce their usefulness as comparative measures.  
 Net sales for the quarter ended September 30, 2018 increased 23%, or $8.9 million, to $47.9 million, compared to $39.0 million for the same period in 2017. Adjusted gross billings for the quarter ended September 30, 2018 increased 26%, or $27.3 million, to $134.0 million, compared to $106.6 million for the same period in 2017.   


item4.txt
 Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures. As required by Rule 13a-15(b) under the Exchange Act, our management carried out an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Company’s “disclosure controls and procedures”, as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act, as of the end of the period covered by this report. This evaluation was carried out under the supervision and with the participation of various members of our management, including our Company’s President and Chief Executive Officer (principal executive officer), Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (principal financial officer), and Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer (principal accounting officer). Based upon that evaluation, we have identified a material weakness in our controls over financial reporting that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and forms, and is accumulated and communicated to the Company’s management, including the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.  


part2.txt
   (1)    Includes 1,888 shares surrendered to the Company by employees to satisfy individual tax withholding obligations upon vesting of previously issued shares of Restricted Stock. These shares are not included in the Common Stock repurchase program referred to in footnote (4) below. 


