fls.txt
 Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance that such expectations will prove to have been correct. Substantial risks and uncertainties unknown at this time could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, the continued acceptance of the Company’s distribution channel by vendors and customers, the timely availability and acceptance of new products, product mix, market conditions, competitive pricing pressures, contribution of key vendor relationships and support programs, including vendor rebates and discounts, as well as factors that affect the software industry in general and other factors generally. We strongly urge current and prospective investors to carefully consider the cautionary statements and risk factors contained in this report and our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 18, 2019.  


item1.txt
 In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued ASU 2016-02, Leases ("ASU 2016-02"). ASU 2016-02 supersedes the lease guidance under FASB ASC Topic 840, Leases, resulting in the creation of FASB ASC Topic 842, Leases. ASU 2016-02 requires a lessee to recognize in the statement of financial position a liability to make lease payments (the lease liability) and a right-of-use (“ROU”) asset representing its right to use the underlying asset for the lease term from operating leases. For leases with a term of 12 months or less, a lessee is permitted to make an accounting policy election by class of underlying asset not to recognize lease assets and lease liabilities. In transition, lessees and lessors were originally required to recognize and measure leases at the beginning of the earliest period presented using a modified retrospective approach. In July 2018, FASB issued ASU No. 2018-11, Targeted Improvements. This update still requires modified retrospective transition; however, it adds the option to initially apply the new standard at the adoption date and recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment in the current period instead of at the beginning of the earliest period presented. Under this option, comparative periods presented in the financial statements in which the new lease standard is adopted will continue to be presented in accordance with prior guidance.  
 The Company adopted the new accounting standard on January 1, 2019 using the modified retrospective transition option. The new standard provides optional practical expedients in transition, which the Company has elected as a package permitting the Company to not reassess under the new standard prior conclusions regarding lease identification, lease classification and initial direct costs. Also, in accordance with the new standard, the Company has elected in transition and for an ongoing basis not to apply the recognition requirements for all short-term leases.  
 The adoption of the new standard had a material effect on the Company’s financial statements, with the most significant effects of adoption relating to (1) the recognition of new right-of-use assets and lease liabilities on its balance sheet for real estate operating leases; and (2) providing significant new disclosures about its leasing activities. Upon adoption, the Company recognized operating lease liabilities of approximately $3.0 million based on the present value of the remaining minimum rental payments for existing operating leases. The Company also recognized corresponding ROU assets, net of lease incentives of approximately $2.2 million. There was no impact to stockholders’ equity from the adoption.  
 In June 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326) ("ASU No. 2016-13"). ASU No. 2016-13 revises the methodology for measuring credit losses on financial instruments and the timing of when such losses are recorded. ASU No. 2016-13 is effective for the Company in the first quarter of 2020, with early adoption permitted, and is to be applied using a modified retrospective approach. The Company is currently evaluating the potential effects of adopting the provisions of ASU No. 2016-13 on its Consolidated Financial Statements, particularly its recognition of allowances for accounts receivable.  
 In June 2018, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2018-07, “Compensation — Stock Compensation (Topic 718), Improvements to Nonemployee Share-Based Payment Accounting” (“ASU 2018-07”), which aligns the measurement and classification guidance for share-based payments to nonemployees with that for employees, with certain exceptions. It expands the scope of ASC 718 to include share-based payments granted to nonemployees in exchange for goods or services used or consumed in the entity’s own operations and supersedes the guidance in ASC 505-50. The ASU retains the existing cost attribution guidance, which requires entities to recognize compensation cost for nonemployee awards in the same period and in the same manner (i.e., capitalize or expense) they would if they paid cash for the goods or services, but it moves the guidance to ASC 718. The new standard became effective for the Company beginning with the first quarter of 2019. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements.  
 In July 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-09 – Codification Improvements (“ASU 2018-09”), which facilitates amendments to a variety of topics to clarify, correct errors in, or make minor improvements to the accounting standards codification. The effective date of the standard is dependent on the facts and circumstances of each amendment. Some amendments do not require transition guidance and will be effective upon the issuance of this standard. A majority of the amendments in ASU 2018-09 became effective for the Company beginning with the first quarter of 2019. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements.  
 Identification of the contract, or contracts, with a customer — A contract with a customer exists when (i) we enter into an enforceable contract with a customer that defines each party’s rights regarding the goods or services to be transferred and identifies the payment terms related to these goods or services, (ii) the contract has commercial substance and, (iii) we determine that collection of substantially all consideration for goods or services that are transferred is probable based on the customer’s intent and ability to pay the promised consideration. We apply judgment in determining the customer’s ability and intention to pay, which is based on a variety of factors including the customer’s historical payment experience or, in the 
 Identification of the performance obligations in the contract — Performance obligations promised in a contract are identified based on the goods or services that will be transferred to the customer that are capable of being distinct, whereby the customer can benefit from the goods or service either on its own or together with other resources that are readily available from third parties or from us, and are distinct in the context of the contract, whereby the transfer of the goods or services is separately identifiable from other promises in the contract. To the extent a contract includes multiple promised goods or services, we apply judgment to determine whether promised goods or services are capable of being distinct in the context of the contract. If these criteria are not met the promised goods or services are accounted for as a single performance obligation.   
 Allocation of the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract — If the contract contains a single performance obligation, the entire transaction price is allocated to the single performance obligation. Contracts that contain multiple performance obligations require an allocation of the transaction price to each performance obligation based on a relative standalone selling price, or SSP, basis. We determine SSP based on the price at which the performance obligation is sold separately. If the standalone selling price is not observable through established standard prices, we use judgement and estimate the standalone selling price considering available information such as market pricing and pricing related to similar products. Contracts with a significant financing component are discounted to their present value at contract inception and accreted up to the expected payment amounts. These contracts generally offer customers extended payment terms of up to three years.   
  Software product consists of sales of perpetual and term software licenses for products developed by third party vendors, which are distinct from related maintenance and support. Software licenses are delivered via electronic license keys provided by the vendor to the end user. Revenue from the sale of software products is recognized on a gross basis, with the selling price to the customer as net sales, and the cost of the related product as cost of sales, upon transfer of control to our customers as the Company is a principal in the transaction. Control is deemed to have passed to the customer when they acquire the right to use or copy the software under license as substantially all product functionality is available to the customer at the time of sale. Other products include marketing revenues that are recorded on a gross basis as the Company is a principal in the arrangement.  
 Software maintenance and support, commonly known as software assurance or post contract support, consists of software updates and technical support provided by the software vendor to the licensor over a period. In cases where the software maintenance is distinct from the related software license, software maintenance is accounted for as a separate performance obligation. In cases where the software maintenance is not distinct from the related software license, it is accounted for as a single performance obligation with the related license. We utilize judgement in determining whether the maintenance is distinct from the software itself. This involves considering if the software provides its original intended functionality without the updates, or is dependent on frequent, or continuous updates to maintain its functionality. See Allocation of the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract for a discussion of the allocation of maintenance and support costs when they are distinct from the related software licenses and Software - security and highly interdependent with support for a discussion of maintenance and support costs when they are not distinct from the related software license.   
 Software - security and highly interdependent with support - Software - security software and software highly interdependent with support consists of sales of security subscriptions and other licensed software products whose functionality is highly interdependent with, and therefore not distinct from, related software maintenance. Delivery of the software license and related support over time is considered a single performance obligation of the third-party vendor for these products. The Company is an agent in these transactions, with revenue being recorded on a net basis when its performance obligation of processing a valid order between the supplier and customer contracting for the services is complete.   
 Maintenance, support and other services revenue - Maintenance, support and other services revenue consists of third-party post-contract support that is not critical or essential to the core functionality of the related licensed software, and, to a lesser extent, from third-party professional services, software as a service, and cloud subscriptions. Revenue from maintenance, support and other service revenues is recognized on a net basis, upon fulfillment of an order to the customer, as the Company is an agent in the transaction, and its performance obligations are complete at the time a valid order between the parties is processed.   


item2.txt
 The Company makes estimates regarding performance obligations inherent in the products and services it sells including, whether ongoing maintenance obligations performed by third party vendors are distinct from the related software licenses, and allocation of sales prices among distinct performance obligations. These estimates require significant judgement to determine whether the software’s functionality is dependent on ongoing maintenance or if substantially all functionality is available in the original software download. We also use judgement in the allocation of sales proceeds among performance obligations, utilizing observable data such as stand-alone selling prices, or market pricing for similar products and services.  
 In limited circumstances, the Company offers extended payment terms to customers for periods of 12 to 48 months. The related customer receivables are classified as accounts receivable long-term and discounted to their present value at prevailing market rates at the time of sale. In subsequent periods, the accounts receivable is increased to the amounts due and payable by the customers through the accretion of interest income on the unpaid accounts receivable due in future years. The amounts under these long-term accounts receivable due within one year are reclassified to the current portion of accounts receivable. At times the Company sells receivables to a financial institution on a non-recourse basis for cash, less a discount. The net proceeds from such sales are included in the operating section of the statement of cash flows as changes in accounts receivable.  
 In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases ("ASU 2016-02"). ASU 2016-02 supersedes the lease guidance under FASB ASC Topic 840, Leases, resulting in the creation of FASB ASC Topic 842, Leases. ASU 2016-02 requires a lessee to recognize in the statement of financial position a liability to make lease payments (the lease liability) and a right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying asset for the lease term from operating leases. For leases with a term of 12 months or less, a lessee is permitted to make an accounting policy election by class of underlying asset not to recognize lease assets and lease liabilities. In transition, lessees and lessors were originally required to recognize and measure leases at the beginning of the earliest period presented using a modified retrospective approach. In July 2018, FASB issued ASU No. 2018-11, Targeted Improvements. This update still requires modified retrospective transition; however, it adds the option to initially apply the new standard at the adoption date and recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment in the current period instead of at the beginning of the earliest period presented. Under this option, comparative periods presented in the financial statements in which the new lease standard is adopted will continue to be presented in accordance with prior guidance.  
 The adoption of the new standard had a material effect on the Company’s financial statements, with the most significant effects of adoption relating to (1) the recognition of new right-of-use assets and lease liabilities on its balance sheet for real estate operating leases; and (2) providing significant new disclosures about its leasing activities. Upon adoption, the Company recognized operating lease liabilities of approximately $3.0 million based on the present value of the remaining minimum rental payments for existing operating leases. The Company also recognized corresponding right-of-use assets, net of lease incentives of approximately $2.2 million. There was no impact to stockholders’ equity from the adoption.  
 In June 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326) ("ASU No. 2016-13"). ASU No. 2016-13 revises the methodology for measuring credit losses on financial instruments and the timing of when such losses are recorded. ASU No. 2016-13 is effective for the Company in the first quarter of 2020, with early adoption permitted, and is to be applied using a modified retrospective approach. The Company is currently evaluating the potential effects of adopting the provisions of ASU No. 2016-13 on its Consolidated Financial Statements, particularly its recognition of allowances for accounts receivable.  
 In July 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-09 – Codification Improvements (“ASU 2018-09”), which facilitates amendments to a variety of topics to clarify, correct errors in, or make minor improvements to the accounting standards codification. The effective date of the standard is dependent on the facts and circumstances of each amendment. Some amendments do not require transition guidance and will be effective upon the issuance of this standard. A majority of the amendments in ASU 2018-09 became effective for the Company beginning with the first quarter of 2019. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements.  
 We use net income excluding separation expenses, net of taxes and diluted earnings per share excluding separation expenses, net of taxes as supplemental measures of our performance to gain insight into comparison of our businesses’ profitability when compared to the prior year. We provided a reconciliation of net income excluding separation expenses, net of taxes to net income and diluted earnings per share excluding separation expenses, net of taxes to diluted earnings per share, which are the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measures. Our use of net income excluding separation expenses, net of taxes and diluted earnings per share excluding separation expenses, net of taxes has limitations, and you should not consider it in isolation or as substitutes for analysis of our financial results as reported under U.S. GAAP. In addition, other companies, including companies in our industry, might calculate separation expenses, net of taxes, or similarly titled measures differently, which may reduce their usefulness as comparative measures.  
 Net sales for the three months ended September 30, 2019 increased 9%, or $4.5 million, to $52.4 million compared to $47.9 million for the same period in the prior year. Adjusted gross billings for the three months ended September 30, 2019 increased 11%, or $15.1 million, to $149.1 million compared to $134.0 million for the same period in the prior year. Adjusted gross billings increased at a higher rate than net sales primarily due to a higher percentage of adjusted gross billings being comprised of Software – security and highly interdependent with support and maintenance, support and other services, which are recorded on a net basis.  
 Lifeboat Distribution segment net sales for the three months ended September 30, 2019 increased $4.7 million, or 11%, to $48.8 million compared to $44.1 million for the same period in the prior year. The increase was due primarily to sales growth in several of our more significant product lines, as well as incremental sales from new product lines added during 2018 and the first quarter of 2019. Adjusted gross billings for the Lifeboat Distribution segment for the three months ended September 30, 2019 increased $21.2 million, or 17%, to $143.2 million compared to $122.0 million for the same period in the prior year.   
 TechXtend segment net sales for the three months ended September 30, 2019 decreased $0.2 million, or 6%, to $3.6 million compared to $3.8 million for the same period in the prior year. Sales in our TechXtend segment may vary significantly from quarter to quarter based on the timing of IT spending decisions by our larger customers and internal capital allocation decisions regarding capital we allocate to our extended payment program. Adjusted gross billings for the TechXtend segment for the three months ended September 30, 2019 decreased $6.1million, or 51%, to $5.9 million compared to $12.0 million for the same period in the prior year.   
 During the three months ended September 30, 2019, we relied on two key customers for a total of 36% of our net sales, with one of these customers accounting for 19% and the other customer accounting for 17% of our total net sales during the three months ended September 30, 2019. The Company had two major customers that accounted for 37% and 16%, respectively, of its total net sales during the three months ended September 30, 2018. The Company had two major vendors that accounted for 22% and 18%, respectively, of total purchases during the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 23% and 15%, respectively, of total purchases during the three months ended September 30, 2018.   
 Gross profit for the three months ended September 30, 2019 increased 12%, or $0.8 million, to $7.1 million compared to $6.3 million for the same period in the prior year. Lifeboat Distribution segment gross profit for the three months ended September 30, 2019 increased 13%, or $0.8 million, to $6.4 million compared to $5.6 million for the same period in the prior year due to the sales growth from existing and new product lines discussed above. TechXtend segment gross profit for the three months ended September 30, 2019 remained consistent with the same period in the prior year at $0.7 million.  
 Gross profit margin (gross profit as a percentage of net sales) for the three months ended September 30, 2019 was 13.5% compared to 13.2% for the same period in the prior year. The change in gross profit margin is significantly impacted by changes in the percentage mix of our products which are recorded net of the related cost of sales, and hardware and software product sales which are reported on a gross basis. During the three months ended September 30, 2019 approximately 9.3% of our net sales was attributable to security, maintenance and third-party service products which are recorded on a net basis, or an effective 100% gross profit margin, compared to 8.0% for the same period in the prior year. This shift in product mix had the effect of increasing gross profit as a percent of net sales by 120 basis points. This increase was partially offset by lower gross profit margin on software and hardware products recorded on a gross basis. Lifeboat Distribution segment gross profit margin for the three months ended September 30, 2019 was 13.1% compared to 12.8% for the same period in the prior year. TechXtend segment gross profit margin for the three months ended September 30, 2019 was 18.9% compared to 17.6% for the same period in the prior year.  
 Net sales for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 increased 12%, or $15.5 million, to $147.9 million, compared to $132.4 million for the same period in the prior year. Adjusted gross billings for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 increased 15%, or $57.9 million, to $433.5 million compared to $375.6 million for the same period in the prior year. Adjusted gross billings increased at a higher rate than net sales primarily due to a higher percentage of adjusted gross billings being comprised of Software – security and highly interdependent with support and maintenance, support and other services, which are recorded on a net basis.  


part2.txt
   (1)    Includes 1,862 shares surrendered to the Company by employees to satisfy individual tax withholding obligations upon vesting of previously issued shares of Restricted Stock. These shares are not included in the Common Stock repurchase program referred to in footnote (4) below. 


