fls.txt
 The Company operates in a rapidly changing business, and new risk factors emerge from time to time. Management cannot predict every risk factor, nor can it assess the impact, if any, of all such risk factors on the Company’s business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements.  


item1.txt
 Effective January 1, 2018 we adopted the requirements of Accounting Standards Update, or ASU, No. 2014-09 Revenue from Contracts with customers, or Accounting Standard Codification (“ASC”) 606 using the full retrospective method, as discussed in detail in Note 5. All amounts and disclosures set forth in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q have been updated to comply with ASC 606, as indicated by the “as adjusted” footnote.  
 In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases ("ASU 2016-02"). ASU 2016-02 supersedes the lease guidance under FASB ASC Topic 840, Leases, resulting in the creation of FASB ASC Topic 842, Leases. ASU 2016-02 requires a lessee to recognize in the statement of financial position a liability to make lease payments and a right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying asset for the lease term. Leases will be classified as either finance or operating leases with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition in the statement of earnings. This ASU is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2018. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently assessing the potential impact of adopting ASU 2016-02 on its consolidated financial statements.   
 In June 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326) ("ASU No. 2016-13"). ASU No. 2016-13 revises the methodology for measuring credit losses on financial instruments and the timing of when such losses are recorded. ASU No. 2016-13 is effective for the Company in the first quarter of 2020, with early adoption permitted, and is to be applied using a modified retrospective approach. The Company is currently evaluating the potential effects of adopting the provisions of ASU No. 2016-13 on its consolidated financial statements, particularly its recognition of allowances for accounts receivable.   
 In May 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-09, “Scope of Modification Accounting”, to reduce diversity in practice and provide clarity regarding existing guidance in ASC 718, “Stock Compensation”. The amendments in this updated guidance clarify that an entity should apply modification accounting in response to a change in the terms and conditions of an entity’s share-based payment awards unless three newly specified criteria are met. This guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within that reporting period. The new guidance was effective for the Company on a prospective basis beginning on January 1, 2018 and did not impact the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements as it is not the Company’s practice to change either the terms or conditions of stock-based payment awards once they are granted.  
  In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-12, Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815) – Targeted Improvements to Accounting for Hedging Activities, which improves the financial reporting of hedging relationships to better portray the economic results of an entity’s risk management activities in its financial statements. The amendments in this update also make certain targeted improvements to simplify the application of the hedge accounting guidance in current U.S. GAAP. ASU No. 2017-12 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years; the ASU allows for early adoption in any interim period after issuance of the update. The Company is currently assessing the impact this ASU will have on its consolidated financial statements.  
 Identification of the contract, or contracts, with a customer — A contract with a customer exists when (i) we enter into an enforceable contract with a customer that defines each party’s rights regarding the goods or services to be transferred and identifies the payment terms related to these goods or services, (ii) the contract has commercial substance and, (iii) we determine that collection of substantially all consideration for goods or services that are transferred is probable based on the customer’s intent and ability to pay the promised consideration. We apply judgment in determining the customer’s ability and intention to pay, which is based on a variety of factors including the customer’s historical payment experience or, in the case of a new customer, published credit and financial information pertaining to the customer. The Company considers customer purchase orders, which in some cases are governed by master agreements or general terms and conditions of sale, to be contracts with customers. All revenue is generated from contracts with customers.   
separately identifiable from other promises in the contract. To the extent a contract includes multiple promised goods or services, we apply judgment to determine whether promised goods or services are capable of being distinct in the context of the contract. If these criteria are not met the promised goods or services are accounted for as a combined performance obligation.  
 Allocation of the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract — If the contract contains a single performance obligation, the entire transaction price is allocated to the single performance obligation. Contracts that contain multiple performance obligations require an allocation of the transaction price to each performance obligation based on a relative standalone selling price, or SSP, basis. We determine standalone SSP based on the price at which the performance obligation is sold separately. If the standalone selling price is not observable through established standard prices, we use judgement and estimate the standalone selling price taking into account available information such as market pricing and pricing related to similar products. Contracts with a significant financing component are discounted to their present value at contract inception and accreted up to the expected payment amounts. These contracts generally offer customers extended payment terms of up to three years.  
 Hardware and software product - Hardware product consists of sales of hardware manufactured by third parties. Hardware product is delivered from our warehouse or drop shipped directly from the vendor. Revenue from our hardware products is recognized on a gross basis, with the selling price to the customer as net sales, and the cost of the related product as cost of sales, upon transfer of title and risk of loss to the customer, as the Company is acting a principal in the transaction.  
 Software maintenance and support, commonly known as software assurance or post contract support, consists of software updates and technical support provided by the software vendor to the licensor over a period of time. In cases where the software maintenance is distinct from the related software license, software maintenance is accounted for as a separate performance obligation. In cases where the software maintenance is not distinct from the related software license, it is accounted for as a single performance obligation with the related license. We utilize judgement in determining whether the maintenance is distinct from the software itself. This involves considering if the software provides its original intended functionality without the updates, or is dependent on frequent, or continuous updates to maintain its functionality. See Allocation of the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract for a discussion of the allocation of maintenance and support costs when they are distinct from the related software licenses and Software - security and highly interdependent with support for a discussion of maintenance and support costs when they are not distinct from the related software license.  
 Software - security and highly interdependent with support - Software - security software and software highly interdependent with support consists of sales of security subscriptions and other licensed software products whose functionality is highly interdependent with, and therefore not distinct from, related software maintenance. Delivery of the software license and related support over time is considered a single performance obligation of the third-party vendor for these products. The Company is an agent in these transactions, with revenue being recorded on a net basis when its performance obligation of processing a valid order between the supplier and customer contracting for the services is complete.  
 Contract balances - Accounts receivable are recorded at the invoiced amount, net of an allowance for doubtful accounts and returns. A receivable is recognized in the period we deliver goods or provide services or when our right to consideration is unconditional. Payment terms on invoiced amounts are typically 30-75 days. The balance of accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful accounts and returns, as of December 31, 2017 and March 31, 2018 is presented in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheets. Accounts receivable-long-term result from product sales with extended payment terms that are discounted to their present values at the Company’s estimates of prevailing market rates at the time of the sale. The Company has determined that these amounts do not represent variable consideration as the amount earned is fixed. In subsequent periods, the accounts receivable are increased to the amounts due and payable by the customers through the accretion of interest income on the unpaid accounts receivable due in future years. The amounts due under these long-term accounts receivable due within one year are reclassified to the current portion of accounts receivable and are shown net of reserves. As our revenues are generally recognized at a point in time in the same period as they are billed, we have no deferred revenue balances. Provisions for doubtful accounts including long-term accounts receivable and returns are estimated based on historical write offs, sales returns and credit memo analysis which are adjusted to actual on a periodic basis.  


item2.txt
 We derive the majority of our net sales though the sale of third party software licenses, maintenance and service agreements. In our Lifeboat distribution segment, sales are impacted by the number of product lines we distribute, and sales penetration of those products into the reseller channel. In our TechXtend segment sales are generally driven by sales force effectiveness and success in providing superior customer service, competitive pricing, and flexible payment solutions to our customers. Our sales are also impacted by external factors such as levels of IT spending and customer demand for products we distribute.  
 Selling general and administrative expenses are comprised mainly of employee salaries, commissions and other employee related expenses, facility costs, costs to maintain our IT infrastructure, public company compliance costs and professional fees. We monitor our level of accounts payable, inventory turnover and accounts receivable turnover which are measures of how efficiently we utilize capital in our business.  
 Dividend Policy and Share Repurchase Program. Historically we have sought to return value to investors through the payment of quarterly dividends and share repurchases. Total dividends paid and shares repurchased were $0.8 and $0.1 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2018, respectively, and $0.8 million and $1.7 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2017, respectively. The payment of future dividends and share repurchases is at the discretion of our Board of Directors and dependent on results of operations, projected capital requirements and other factors the Board of Directors may find relevant.  
 The Company writes down its inventory for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated market value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory write-offs may be required.  
 The Company has considered future taxable income and ongoing prudent and feasible tax planning strategies in assessing the need for the valuation allowance related to deferred tax assets. In the event the Company were to determine that it would not be able to realize all or part of its net deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would be charged to income in the period such determination was made.  
 Under the fair value recognition provision, stock-based compensation cost is measured at the grant date based on the fair value of the award and is recognized as expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period. We record the impact of forfeitures when they occur. We review our valuation assumptions periodically and, as a result, we may change our valuation assumptions used to value stock based awards granted in future periods. Such changes may lead to a significant change in the expense we recognize in connection with share-based payments.  
 In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases ("ASU 2016-02"). ASU 2016-02 supersedes the lease guidance under FASB ASC Topic 840, Leases, resulting in the creation of FASB ASC Topic 842, Leases. ASU 2016-02 requires a lessee to recognize in the statement of financial position a liability to make lease payments and a right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying asset for the lease term. Leases will be classified as either finance or operating leases with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition in the statement of earnings. This ASU is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2018. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently assessing the potential impact of adopting ASU 2016-02 on its consolidated financial statements.   
 In June 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326) ("ASU No. 2016-13"). ASU No. 2016-13 revises the methodology for measuring credit losses on financial instruments and the timing of when such losses are recorded. ASU No. 2016-13 is effective for the Company in the first quarter of 2020, with early adoption permitted, and is to be applied using a modified retrospective approach. The Company is currently evaluating the potential effects of adopting the provisions of ASU No. 2016-13 on its consolidated financial statements, particularly its recognition for accounts receivable.   
 In May 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-09, “Scope of Modification Accounting”, to reduce diversity in practice and provide clarity regarding existing guidance in ASC 718, “Stock Compensation”. The amendments in this updated guidance clarify that an entity should apply modification accounting in response to a change in the terms and conditions of an entity’s share-based payment awards unless three newly specified criteria are met. This guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within that reporting period. The new guidance was effective for the Company on a prospective basis beginning on January 1, 2018 and did not impact the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements as it is not the Company’s practice to change either the terms or conditions of stock-based payment awards once they are granted.  
 In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-12, Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815) – Targeted Improvements to Accounting for Hedging Activities, which improves the financial reporting of hedging relationships to better portray the economic results of an entity’s risk management activities in its financial statements. The amendments in this update also make certain targeted improvements to simplify the application of the hedge accounting guidance in current U.S. GAAP. ASU No. 2017-12 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years; the ASU allows for early adoption in any interim period after issuance of the update. The Company is currently assessing the impact this ASU will have on its consolidated financial statements.  
 We define adjusted gross billings as net sales in accordance with U.S. GAAP, adjusted for the cost of sales related to Software – security and highly interdependent with support and Maintenance, support and other services. We provided a reconciliation of Adjusted gross billings to net sales, which is the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure. We use Adjusted gross billings of product and services as a supplemental measure of our performance to gain insight into the volume of business generated by our business, and to analyze the changes to our accounts receivable and accounts payable. Our use of Adjusted gross billings of product and services as analytical tools has limitations, and you should not consider it in isolation or as substitutes for analysis of our financial results as reported under U.S. GAAP. In addition, other companies, including companies in our industry, might calculate Adjusted gross billings of product and services or similarly titled measures differently, which may reduce their usefulness as comparative measures.  
 Net sales for the quarter ended March 31, 2018 increased 6%, or $2.5 million, to $40.6 million, compared to $38.1 million for the same period in 2017, as increased net sales in our Lifeboat Distribution segment were offset in part by decreased extended payment sales in our TechXtend segment. Adjusted gross billings for the quarter ended March 31, 2018 increased 11%, or $12.3 million, to $125.1 million, compared to $112.8 million for the same period in 2017. Adjusted gross billings increased at a higher rate than net sales primarily due to a higher percentage of sales being comprised of maintenance and software -security and highly interdependent with support which are recorded on a net basis.   
 Lifeboat Distribution segment net sales for the quarter ended March 31, 2018 increased $3.0 million, or 9% to $36.8 million, compared to $33.8 million for the same period a year earlier. The increase was due primarily to growth in sales penetration for several of our more significant product lines, as well as the addition of several new product lines. The increases were partially offset by turnover in some vendor and customer accounts. We operate in a competitive market in which vendor distribution and sales agreements are subject to change due competitive bidding processes and other factors. Adjusted gross billings for the Lifeboat Distribution segment increased $14.5 million or 14% to $119.0 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2018. Adjusted gross billings increased at a faster rate than net sales because of a higher percentage of our sales being derived from maintenance services and subscriptions which are recorded net of cost of sales.  


item3.txt



item4.txt
 Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures. As required by Rule 13a-15(b) under the Exchange Act, our management carried out an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Company’s “disclosure controls and procedures”, as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act, as of the end of the period covered by this report. This evaluation was carried out under the supervision and with the participation of various members of our management, including our Company’s President, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive 
Officer (principal executive officer), Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (principal financial officer), and Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer (principal accounting officer). Based upon that evaluation, we have identified a material weakness in our controls over financial reporting that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and forms, and is accumulated and communicated to the Company’s management, including the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.  


part2.txt
   (1)    Includes 9,126 shares surrendered to the Company by employees to satisfy individual tax withholding obligations upon vesting of previously issued shares of Restricted Stock. These shares are not included in the Common Stock repurchase program referred to in footnote (4) below. 
   (2)    Average price paid per share reflects the closing price the Company’s Common Stock on the business date the shares were surrendered by the employee stockholder to satisfy individual tax withholding obligations upon vesting of Restricted Stock or the price of the Common Stock paid on the open market purchase, as applicable. 


