 In October 2015, Corning announced a strategy and capital allocation framework (the “Framework”) that reflects the Company’s financial and operational strengths, as well as its ongoing commitment to increasing shareholder value. The Framework outlines our leadership priorities and articulates the opportunities we see across our businesses. We designed the Framework to create significant value for shareholders by focusing our portfolio and leveraging our financial strength. Under our Framework, we target generating $26 billion to $30 billion of cash through 2019, returning more than $12.5 billion to shareholders and investing $10 billion to extend our leadership positions and deliver growth.   
 Our probability of success increases as we invest in our world-class capabilities. Corning is concentrating approximately 80% of its research, development and engineering investment and capital spending on a cohesive set of three core technologies, four manufacturing and engineering platforms, and five market-access platforms. This strategy allows us to quickly apply our talents and repurpose our assets as needed.   
 Net sales for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 were $3.0 billion and $8.3 billion, compared to $2.6 billion and $7.5 billion, respectively, for the same periods in 2017, driven by an increase in net sales in all segments. The increase in both periods was led by the Optical Communications segment, which increased $200 million and $409 million, respectively, due to higher sales of carrier network products in North America and Europe, an increase in sales of enterprise network products from growth in data centers and sales from 3M’s Communications Market Division which we acquired in June. Net sales in the Display Technologies segment increased by $57 million and $23 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, with volumes exceeding the display glass market’s strong growth and more than offsetting price declines. The Specialty Materials segment net sales increased by $86 million and $70 million, respectively, resulting from strong demand for Gorilla Glass products in support of new product releases.  Net sales for Environmental Technologies increased $54 million and $155 million, respectively, driven by growth in all product categories. Life Sciences sales increased by $8 million and $54 million, respectively, driven by higher sales across all product lines.   
   ·    Lower segment net income in the All Other segment, down $8 million, resulting from continued investment in product development. 
 Diluted earnings per share increased by $0.28 per share, or 72%, when compared to the third quarter of 2017, driven by the increase in net income described above, coupled with the repurchase of 76 million shares of common stock over the last twelve months.  
   ·    An increase in the translated earnings contract gains of $174 million. 
 Diluted earnings per share decreased by $0.07 per share, or 8%, when compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2017, driven by the decrease in net income described above, coupled with the repurchase of 76 million shares of common stock over the last twelve months.  
 The translation impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, including the impact of hedges realized in the current quarter, did not materially impact Corning’s consolidated net income in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 when compared to the same periods in 2017.  
 We believe 2018 will be another year of strong growth and investment, consistent with our Strategy and Capital Allocation Framework, and anticipate that segment net sales will exceed $11.3 billion. In our Display Technologies segment, we expect pricing to continue to improve, with moderate year-over-year declines during the fourth quarter, an important milestone toward our goal of stabilizing returns. For the full year, we anticipate Corning’s glass volume will grow faster than the expected display glass market growth of mid-single digits, driven by the ramp of our Gen 10.5 facility in China. In the Optical Communications segment, we expect sales to increase in the high-teen percentage range, including approximately $200 million from the acquisition of 3M’s Communications Market Division. We expect organic growth will improve by a low-teen percentage range driven by strong demand from carrier and enterprise network customers. We expect mid-single digit percentage growth in the Specialty Materials segment, driven by new model launches and the adoption of our innovations. We expect sales growth in the mid-teen percentage range in our Environmental Technologies segment, driven by continued strength in automotive product sales, on-going improvements in the heavy-duty diesel market and the commercial launch of gas-particulate filters. We expect mid-to-high single digit percentage growth in the Life Sciences segment.   
 Movements in foreign exchange rates increased Corning’s consolidated net sales in the amount of $9 million in the three months ended September 30, 2018, when compared to the prior year.  
 Movements in foreign exchange rates decreased Corning’s consolidated net sales in the amount of $42 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2018, when compared to the prior year.  
 In the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, gross margin increased by $182 million, or 17%, and $271 million, or 9%, respectively, primarily driven by an increase in sales across all operating segments. Gross margin as a percentage of net sales increased by 1% for the three months ended September 30, 2018. Gross margin as a percentage of sales declined by 1% for the year to date period driven by glass price declines in the high-single digits in percentage terms, combined with spending for capacity expansions in the Display Technologies and Optical Communications segments.   
   ·    Increased acquisition related costs, up $21 million. 
 For the nine months ended September 30, 2018, research, development and engineering expenses increased by $105 million, or 17%, when compared to the same period last year, driven by higher costs associated with new product launches and our emerging businesses. As a percentage of sales, these expenses increased slightly when compared to the same period last year.   
 In the third quarter ending September 30, 2018, equity in earnings of affiliated companies remain relatively consistent with the prior year.  
 In the first three quarters of 2018, equity in earnings of affiliated companies decreased by $46 million, driven by the absence of a $46 million gain recorded in the first quarter of 2017 resulting from the modification of long-term sales agreements with a customer of HSG.  
 The translation impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, including the impact of hedges realized in the current quarter, did not materially impact Corning’s consolidated income before income taxes in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 when compared to the same periods in 2017.  
   (1)    Refer to Note 6 (Earnings per Common Share) to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. 
 For the three months ended September 30, 2018 comprehensive income increased by $79 million when compared to the same period in 2017, due to an increase in net income of $235 million and higher unrealized gains on designated hedges of $23 million, offset by the negative impact of the change in foreign currency translation gains and losses of $181 million, driven primarily by the Japanese yen and the Korean won.  
 For the nine months ended September 30, 2018 comprehensive income decreased by $965 million when compared to the same period in 2017, due to the negative impact of the change in foreign currency translation adjustments of $749 million, driven primarily by the devaluation of the Japanese yen and the Korean won, a $141 million decrease in net income and a decrease of $38 million in unrealized gains on designated hedges.  
 Refer to Note 14 (Shareholders’ Equity) to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.  
 For a reconciliation of non-GAAP performance measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, please see “Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures” below.  
   ·    A decrease of $8 million in the All Other segment resulting from increased investment in development projects. 
 Included in core earnings for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 is net periodic pension expense in the amounts of $13 million and $38 million, respectively, and $12 million and $37 million, respectively.   
   ·    Display Technologies – manufactures glass substrates primarily for flat panel displays. 
   ·    Optical Communications – manufactures carrier and enterprise network components for the telecommunications industry. 
   ·    Specialty Materials – manufactures products that provide more than 150 material formulations for glass, glass ceramics and fluoride crystals to meet demand for unique customer needs. 
   ·    Environmental Technologies – manufactures ceramic substrates and filters for automotive and diesel emission control applications.  
 All other segments that do not meet the quantitative threshold for separate reporting have been grouped as “All Other.” This group is primarily comprised of the results of the pharmaceutical technologies business and new product lines and development projects, as well as certain corporate investments such as Eurokera and Keraglass equity affiliates.   
 Net sales in the Display Technologies segment increased by $57 and $23 million, respectively, in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, driven by glass volume growth in the low-teens and high-single digits in percentage terms. Volume growth more than offset price declines in the mid-single digits and high-single digits in percentage terms, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively. Capacity expansion in China is supporting the increase in volume.  
 Net income in the Display Technologies segment increased by $7 million in the three months ended September 30, 2018, for the reasons outlined in the above paragraph. Net income decreased by $87 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2018 driven by expansion costs and price declines more than offsetting increases in glass volume.  
 For the fourth quarter, display glass market volume is expected to grow by a low-single-digit percentage sequentially. Display Technologies sales volumes are expected to grow faster than the market, driven by the Gen 10.5 ramp up in China. Fourth-quarter sequential glass price declines are expected to be even more moderate than the third quarter.  
 Net sales in the Optical Communications segment increased by $200 million, or 22%, and $409 million, or 16%, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively. Higher sales of carrier products, up $107 million and $251 million, and enterprise network products, up $93 million and $158 million, respectively, drove the increase. Strong growth in the North American and European fiber-to-the-home and access markets drove the sales increase in carrier network products and growth in data centers drove the increase in enterprise sales. The acquisition of 3M’s Communications Market Division also contributed to sales growth.  
 Net income increased by $36 million, or 27%, and $57 million, or 15%, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018. The increase was driven by the increase in sales. For the nine months ended September 30, 2018, volume gains were partially offset by costs associated with our planned capacity expansions and lower sales prices.  
 Net sales in the Specialty Materials segment increased by $86 million, or 23%, and $70 million, or 7%, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, driven primarily by increased Gorilla Glass sales. Net income increased by $30 million, or 35%, and $13 million, or 6% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, primarily driven by the increase in sales and lower manufacturing costs.  
 Net sales in the Environmental Technologies segment increased $54 million, or 19%, and $155 million, or 19%, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively. Automotive product sales increased $20 million and $72 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, due to global market strength and continued sales growth of gas particulate filters. Diesel product sales increased $34 million and $83 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively. The increases were driven by higher demand for heavy-duty diesel products in North America and Europe. Movements in foreign exchange rates were not material when compared to the corresponding three-month period in 2017. The year to date impact is $29 million when compared to the corresponding nine-month period in 2017.  
Net income increased by $20 million, or 50%, and $44 million, or 36%, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively. The increase was driven by the sales increase outlined above and improved manufacturing efficiencies. Movements in foreign exchange rates had an immaterial effect on net income when compared to the three months ended September 2017, and impacted net income by $4 million when compared to the corresponding nine-month period in 2017.  
 Net sales in the Life Sciences segment increased by $8 million, or 4%, and $54 million, or 8%, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, driven by higher sales across all product categories. Movements in foreign exchange rates reduced net sales $2 million and increased net sales $12 million in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 when compared to the same period in 2017.  
 Net income increased by $5 million, or 20%, and $17 million, or 24%, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, driven by the increase in sales described above and improved manufacturing efficiencies. Movements in foreign exchange rates were not material when compared to the corresponding three-month and nine-month periods in 2017.   
 All other segments that do not meet the quantitative threshold for separate reporting have been grouped as “All Other.” This group is primarily comprised of the results of the pharmaceutical technologies business and new product lines and development projects, as well as certain corporate investments such as Eurokera and Keraglass equity affiliates.   
 Net sales of this segment increased by $5 million, or 10%, and $23 million, 17%, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017, driven primarily by an increase in sales in our emerging businesses. The increase in the net loss of $8 million, or 13%, and $38 million, or 20%, reflects increased spending in our development projects when compared to the corresponding three and nine months ended September 30, 2017.  
In the third quarter of 2018, Corning amended and restated its revolving credit agreement (the “Revolving Credit Agreement”). The Revolving Credit Agreement provides a $1.5 billion unsecured multi-currency line of credit and expires August 15, 2023. The Revolving Credit Agreement includes affirmative and negative covenants with which Corning must comply, including a leverage (debt to capital ratio) financial covenant. The required leverage ratio is a maximum of 60%.   
 There were no significant items that impacted Corning’s financing structure in the nine months ended September 30, 2017.  
 During 2017, Corning repurchased 84.4 million shares for approximately $2.4 billion through accelerated share repurchase agreements and open market repurchases under the 2016 Repurchase Program.  
 On April 26, 2018, Corning’s Board of Directors approved a $2 billion share repurchase program with no expiration (the “2018 Repurchase Program”). During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, the Company repurchased 11.8 million and 63.4 million shares of common stock on the open market for approximately $384 million and $1.9 billion, respectively, as part of its 2016 and 2018 Repurchase Programs.   
 Refer to Note 14 (Shareholders’ Equity) for additional information.  
 Capital spending totaled $1.6 billion and $1.2 billion in the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. We expect our 2018 capital expenditures to be slightly more than $2.0 billion, driven by expansions related to the Gen 10.5 glass manufacturing facility, the addition of capacity to support the new gas-particulate filters business in the Environmental Technologies segment and investment to support growth in customer demand in the Optical Communications and Specialty Materials segments.  
 Net cash used in investing activities increased by $1 billion in the nine months ended September 30, 2018 when compared to the same period last year, driven by the cash outflow of $794 million for the acquisition of 3M’s Communications Market Division, an increase of $382 million in capital expenditures largely due to capacity expansion projects in our Display Technologies, Optical Communications and Environmental Technologies segments and a decrease of $137 million in realized gains on translated earnings contracts. Cash received of $196 million, which represents the original fair value of the contingent consideration asset related to the acquisition of Samsung Corning Precision Materials (see Note 13), partially offset the net cash used in investing activities.  
 Net cash used in financing activities in the nine months ended September 30, 2018 increased by $521 million when compared to the same period last year, driven by an increase in debt repayments of $375 million and decreases of $201 million and $106 million in proceeds received from the exercise of stock options and the issuance of debt, respectively. A decrease of $184 million in share repurchases partially offset the negative cash impact of these items.  
 Corning also has a commercial paper program pursuant to which we may issue short-term, unsecured commercial paper notes up to a maximum aggregate principal amount outstanding at any one time of $1.5 billion. Under this program, the Company may issue the paper from time to time and will use the proceeds for general corporate purposes. The Company’s Revolving Credit Agreement is available to support obligations under the commercial paper program, if needed. At September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017 Corning did not have outstanding commercial paper.  
 Our major source of funding for 2018 and beyond will be our operating cash flow, our existing balances of cash and cash equivalents and proceeds from any issuances of debt. We believe we have sufficient liquidity to fund operations, acquisitions, capital expenditures, scheduled debt repayments, dividend payments and share repurchase programs.  
 Our Revolving Credit Agreement includes affirmative and negative covenants with which we must comply, including a leverage (debt to capital ratio) financial covenant. The required leverage ratio is a maximum of 60%. At September 30, 2018, our leverage using this measure was approximately 28%. As of September 30, 2018, we were in compliance with the terms of the Revolving Credit Agreement.  
 Our debt instruments contain customary event of default provisions, which allow the lenders the option of accelerating all obligations upon the occurrence of certain events. In addition, some of our debt instruments contain a cross default provision, whereby an uncured default in excess of a specified amount on one debt obligation of the Company, also would be considered a default under the terms of another debt instrument. As of September 30, 2018, we were in compliance with all such provisions.  
 There have been no material changes outside the ordinary course of business in the contractual obligations disclosed in our 2017 Form 10-K under the caption “Contractual Obligations.”  
 We are required to assess the recoverability of the carrying value of long-lived assets when an indicator of impairment has been identified. We review our long-lived assets in each quarter in which impairment indicators are present. We must exercise judgment in assessing whether an event of impairment has occurred.  
 Manufacturing equipment includes certain components of production equipment that are constructed of precious metals, primarily platinum and rhodium. These metals are not depreciated because they have very low physical losses and are repeatedly reclaimed and reused in our manufacturing process and have a very long useful life. Precious metals are reviewed for impairment as part of our assessment of long-lived assets. This review considers all of the Company’s precious metals that are either in place in the production process; in reclamation, fabrication, or refinement in anticipation of re-use; or awaiting use to support increased capacity. Precious metals are only acquired to support our manufacturing operations and are not held for trading or other purposes.  
 Refer to Note 1 (Significant Accounting Policies) to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  
 Corning has been named by the Environmental Protection Agency (“the Agency”) under the Superfund Act, or by state governments under similar state laws, as a potentially responsible party for 15 active hazardous waste sites. Under the Superfund Act, all parties who may have contributed any waste to a hazardous waste site, identified by the Agency, are jointly and severally liable for the cost of cleanup unless the Agency agrees otherwise. It is Corning’s policy to accrue for its estimated liability related to Superfund sites and other environmental liabilities related to property owned by Corning based on expert analysis and continual monitoring by both internal and external consultants. At September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, Corning had accrued approximately $33 million and $38 million, respectively, (undiscounted) for the estimated liability for environmental cleanup and related litigation. Based upon the information developed to date, management believes that the accrued reserve is a reasonable estimate of the Company’s liability and that the risk of an additional loss in an amount materially higher than that accrued is remote.  
   -    currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and other currencies, primarily the Japanese yen, New Taiwan dollar, euro, Chinese yuan and South Korean won; 
   -    other risks detailed in Corning’s SEC filings. 
 © 2018 Corning Incorporated. All Rights Reserved.  
