This interim MD&A should be read in conjunction with the MD&A in our 2017 Form 10-K.
 In October 2015, Corning announced a strategy and capital allocation framework (the “Framework”) that reflects the Company’s financial and operational strengths, as well as its ongoing commitment to increasing shareholder value.
The Framework outlines our leadership priorities and articulates the opportunities we see across our businesses.
We designed the Framework to create significant value for shareholders by focusing our portfolio and leveraging our financial strength.
Under our Framework, we target generating $26 billion to $30 billion of cash through 2019, returning more than $12.5 billion to shareholders and investing $10 billion to sustain our leadership positions and deliver growth.
Corning is concentrating approximately 80% of its research, development and engineering investment and capital spending on a cohesive set of three core technologies, four manufacturing and engineering platforms, and five market-access platforms.
This strategy allows us to quickly apply our talents and repurpose our assets as needed.
 Net sales in the three months ended March 31, 2018 were $2,500 million, compared to $2,375 million in the same period in 2017.
The increase was driven by higher sales in the Optical Communications, Environmental Technologies and Life Sciences segments, up $68 million, $47 million and $22 million, respectively.
 © 2018 Corning Incorporated.
The translation impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, including the impact of hedges realized in the current quarter, did not materially impact Corning’s consolidated net loss in the three months ended March 31, 2018 when compared to the same period in 2017.
 We believe 2018 will be another year of strong growth and investment, consistent with our Strategy and Capital Allocation Framework, and anticipate that segment net sales will grow to approximately $11 billion.
In our Display Technologies segment, we expect pricing to continue to improve, with year-over-year declines reaching mid-single digits, an important milestone toward our goal of stabilizing returns.
We anticipate Corning’s LCD glass volume will grow faster than the expected LCD glass market growth of mid-single digits, driven by the ramp of our Gen 10.5 facility in China.
In the Optical Communications segment, we expect sales to increase by about 10%, excluding any contribution from the pending acquisition of 3M’s Communications Market Division, driven by strong demand from carrier and enterprise network customers, supported by our planned capacity additions.
We expect sales growth of approximately 10% in our Environmental Technologies segment, driven by continued strength in automotive product sales, on-going improvements in the heavy-duty diesel market and from the commercial launch of gas-particulate filters.
We anticipate mid-single digit growth in the Life Sciences segment.
 © 2018 Corning Incorporated.
 © 2018 Corning Incorporated.
   ·    An increase of $22 million in the Life Sciences segment, driven by higher sales in North America and China.
 Movements in foreign exchange rates impacted Corning’s consolidated net sales in the amount of $87 million in the three months ended March 31, 2018, when compared to the prior year.
   ·    An increase of $18 million in corporate spending primarily related to new information technology platforms and outside legal fees.
 © 2018 Corning Incorporated.
As a percentage of sales, these expenses increased slightly in the first quarter, when compared to the same period last year.
 Equity in earnings of affiliated companies decreased by $41 million, driven largely by the absence of a $46 million gain recorded in the first quarter of 2017 resulting from the modification of long-term sales agreements with a customer of HSG.
 © 2018 Corning Incorporated.
 The translation impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, including the impact of hedges realized in the current quarter, did not materially impact Corning’s consolidated loss before income taxes in the three months ended March 31, 2018 when compared to the same period in 2017.
   ·    The impact from domestic losses attributable to foreign exchange and losses on translated earnings contracts.
   (1)    Refer to Note 6 ((Loss) Earnings per Common Share) to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.
 For the three months ended March 31, 2018 comprehensive (loss) income decreased by $890 million when compared to the same period in 2017, due to a decrease in net income of $675 million, the negative impact of the change in foreign currency translation gains and losses of $186 million, driven primarily by the Japanese yen and the euro, and a decrease in net unrealized gains of designated hedges of $26 million.
 © 2018 Corning Incorporated.
Refer to Note 13 (Shareholders’ Equity) to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.
Additionally, Corning has adopted the use of constant currency reporting for our Display Technologies and Specialty Materials segments for the Japanese yen, South Korean won, Chinese yuan and New Taiwan dollar currencies.
 These measures are not prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States (“GAAP”).
These measures are not, and should not be viewed as a substitute for, GAAP reporting measures.
As a result, the Company is unable to provide outlook information on a GAAP basis.
 See “Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for details on core performance measures.
For a reconciliation of non-GAAP performance measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, please see “Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures” below.
 © 2018 Corning Incorporated.
 In the three months ended March 31, 2018, we generated core earnings of $299 million or $0.31 per share, compared to core earnings generated in the three months ended March 31, 2017 of $376 million, or $0.36 per share.
 Included in core earnings for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 is net periodic pension expense in the amounts of $12 million and $13 million, respectively.
 © 2018 Corning Incorporated.
 © 2018 Corning Incorporated.
 © 2018 Corning Incorporated.
   ·    Display Technologies – manufactures glass substrates primarily for flat panel liquid crystal displays.
   ·    Optical Communications – manufactures carrier and enterprise network components for the telecommunications industry.
   ·    Specialty Materials – manufactures products that provide more than 150 material formulations for glass, glass ceramics and fluoride crystals to meet demand for unique customer needs.
   ·    Environmental Technologies – manufactures ceramic substrates and filters for automotive and diesel emission control applications.
   ·    Life Sciences – manufactures glass and plastic labware, equipment, media and reagents enabling workflow solutions for scientific applications.
 We prepared the financial results for our reportable segments on a basis that is consistent with the manner in which we internally disaggregate financial information to assist the CODM in making internal operating decisions.
We included the earnings of equity affiliates that are closely associated with our reportable segments in the respective segment’s net income.
Segment net income may not be consistent with measures used by other companies.
 © 2018 Corning Incorporated.
 Net sales in the Display Technologies segment decreased by $37 million, or 5%, in the first quarter of 2018, when compared to the first quarter of 2017.
The decrease was driven by LCD glass price declines in the high-single digits in percentage terms, partially offset by an increase in volume in the mid-single digits in line with the overall glass market.
First-quarter sequential price declines were the best first quarter since 2010.
These items were partially offset by the increase in volume described above.
 Net sales in the Optical Communications segment increased by $68 million, or 8%, in the first quarter of 2018, due to higher sales of carrier and enterprise network products, up $49 million and $19 million, respectively.
Strong growth in the North American and European fiber-to-the-home market drove the increase in carrier network products, and an increase in hyper-scale data centers drove the increase in enterprise network.
 In the second quarter, Optical Communications sales are expected to increase by a low-teens percentage on a year-over-year basis.
Improvements in manufacturing efficiency partially offset the decline.
 © 2018 Corning Incorporated.
 Net sales in the Environmental Technologies segment increased $47 million, or 17%, in the first quarter of 2018 when compared to the same period in 2017.
Automotive product sales increased by $22 million, due to market strength in Europe, China and North America, and continued sales growth of gas particulate filters.
Diesel product sales increased $25 million, driven by higher demand for heavy-duty diesel products in North America and Europe.
Movements in foreign exchange rates impacted net sales in the amount of $20 million when compared to the same period in 2017.
 Net income in the first quarter of 2018 increased by $8 million, or 18%, driven by the sales increase outlined above and improved manufacturing efficiencies.
Movements in foreign exchange rates impacted net income in the amount of $3 million when compared to the same period in 2017.
 In the second quarter, we expect sales to increase in the high-teens in percentage terms.
 Net sales in the Life Sciences segment increased by $22 million, or 10%, in the first quarter of 2018 when compared to the same period in 2017, driven by higher sales in North America and China.
Movements in foreign exchange rates impacted net sales in the amount of $9 million in the three months ended March 31, 2018 when compared to the same period in 2017.
 Net income in the first quarter of 2018 increased by $3 million, or 13%, driven by the increase in sales described above.
Movements in foreign exchange rates did not materially impact net income in the three months ended March 31, 2018 when compared to the same period in 2017.
 Second-quarter sales are expected to grow in the high-single digits on a year-over-year basis.
 © 2018 Corning Incorporated.
 Net sales of this segment increased by $14 million, or 39%, in the three months ended March 31, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017, driven by an increase in sales in our emerging businesses.
The increase in the net loss in the first quarter of $14 million, or 23%, reflects higher losses in our development projects.
 There were no significant items that impacted Corning’s financing and capital resources in the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017.
 On February 7, 2018, Corning’s Board of Directors declared a 16% increase in the Company’s quarterly common stock dividend, which increased the quarterly dividend from $0.155 to $0.18 per share of common stock, beginning with the dividend to be paid in the first quarter of 2018.
This increase marks the seventh dividend increase since October 2011.
 During 2017, Corning repurchased 84.4 million shares for approximately $2.4 billion through accelerated share repurchase agreements and open market repurchases under the 2016 Repurchase Program.
 In the three months ended March 31, 2018, the Company repurchased 27.1 million shares of common stock on the open market for approximately $814.3 million as part of its 2016 Repurchase Program.
 On April 26, 2018, Corning’s Board of Directors approved a $2 billion share repurchase program with no expiration (the “2018 Repurchase Program”).
 Refer to Note 13 (Shareholders’ Equity) for additional information.
 Capital spending totaled $655 million and $364 million in the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
We expect our 2018 capital expenditures to be slightly more than $2.0 billion, driven by expansions related to the Gen 10.5 glass manufacturing facility, the addition of capacity to support the new gas-particulate filters business in the Environmental Technologies segment and investment to support growth in customer demand in the Optical Communications and Specialty Materials segments.
 Net cash provided by operating activities increased by $129 million in the three months ended March 31, 2018 when compared to the same period last year, driven by customer deposits received of $276 million and a decrease of $94 million in accounts receivable in the Specialty Materials segment, partially offset by an increase in payments for variable compensation, a decrease of $34 million in dividends received from affiliated companies and an increase in inventory of $69 million in the Specialty Materials segment.
 © 2018 Corning Incorporated.
 Net cash used in investing activities increased by $318 million in the three months ended March 31, 2018 when compared to the same period last year, driven by an increase of $291 million in capital expenditures largely due to capacity expansion projects in our Display Technologies and Optical Communications segments.
 We ended the first quarter of 2018 with approximately $3 billion of cash and cash equivalents.
We utilize a variety of financing strategies to ensure that our worldwide cash is available in the locations in which it is needed.
There were no incremental taxes beyond the toll charge due with the respect to this distribution of cash.
 To manage interest rate exposure, the Company, from time to time, enters into interest rate swap agreements.
We are currently party to two interest rate swaps that are designated as fair value hedges and economically exchange a notional amount of $550 million of previously issued fixed rate long-term debt to floating rate debt.
Under the terms of the swap agreements, we pay the counterparty a floating rate that is indexed to the one-month LIBOR rate.
Under this program, the Company may issue the paper from time to time and will use the proceeds for general corporate purposes.
The Company’s $2 billion revolving credit facility is available to support obligations under the commercial paper program, if needed.
At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 Corning did not have outstanding commercial paper.
 © 2018 Corning Incorporated.
 We complete comprehensive reviews of our significant customers and their creditworthiness by analyzing their financial strength at least annually or more frequently for customers where we have identified a measure of increased risk.
 Our major source of funding for 2018 and beyond will be our operating cash flow, our existing balances of cash and cash equivalents and proceeds from any issuances of debt.
We believe we have sufficient liquidity for the next several years to fund operations, acquisitions, asbestos litigation, capital expenditures, scheduled debt repayments, dividend payments and share repurchase programs.
 Corning has access to a $2 billion unsecured committed revolving credit facility.
This credit facility includes a leverage ratio financial covenant.
The required leverage ratio, which measures debt to total capital, is a maximum of 50%.
At March 31, 2018, our leverage using this measure was approximately 26% and we are in compliance with the financial covenant.
 Our debt instruments contain customary event of default provisions, which allow the lenders the option of accelerating all obligations upon the occurrence of certain events.
In addition, some of our debt instruments contain a cross default provision, whereby an uncured default in excess of a specified amount on one debt obligation of the Company, also would be considered a default under the terms of another debt instrument.
As of March 31, 2018, we were in compliance with all such provisions.
 There have been no material changes outside the ordinary course of business in the contractual obligations disclosed in our 2017 Form 10-K under the caption “Contractual Obligations.”
The estimates that require management’s most difficult, subjective or complex judgments are described in our 2017 Form 10-K and remain unchanged through the first three months of 2018.
For certain items, additional details are provided below.
 We are required to assess the recoverability of the carrying value of long-lived assets when an indicator of impairment has been identified.
We review our long-lived assets in each quarter in which impairment indicators are present.
We must exercise judgment in assessing whether an event of impairment has occurred.
 Manufacturing equipment includes certain components of production equipment that are constructed of precious metals, primarily platinum and rhodium.
These metals are not depreciated because they have very low physical losses and are repeatedly reclaimed and reused in our manufacturing process and have a very long useful life.
Precious metals are reviewed for impairment as part of our assessment of long-lived assets.
This review considers all of the Company’s precious metals that are either in place in the production process; in reclamation, fabrication, or refinement in anticipation of re-use; or awaiting use to support increased capacity.
 At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the carrying value of precious metals was higher than the fair market value by $661 million and $711 million, respectively.
These precious metals are utilized by the Display Technologies and Specialty Materials segments.
Corning believes these precious metal assets to be recoverable due to the significant positive cash flow in both segments.
The potential for impairment exists in the future if negative events significantly decrease the cash flow of these segments.
 © 2018 Corning Incorporated.
 Refer to Note 1 (Significant Accounting Policies) to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
 Corning has been named by the Environmental Protection Agency (“the Agency”) under the Superfund Act, or by state governments under similar state laws, as a potentially responsible party for 15 active hazardous waste sites.
Under the Superfund Act, all parties who may have contributed any waste to a hazardous waste site, identified by the Agency, are jointly and severally liable for the cost of cleanup unless the Agency agrees otherwise.
It is Corning’s policy to accrue for its estimated liability related to Superfund sites and other environmental liabilities related to property owned by Corning based on expert analysis and continual monitoring by both internal and external consultants.
At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, Corning had accrued approximately $38 million (undiscounted) for the estimated liability for environmental cleanup and related litigation.
Based upon the information developed to date, management believes that the accrued reserve is a reasonable estimate of the Company’s liability and that the risk of an additional loss in an amount materially higher than that accrued is remote.
The company does not undertake to update forward-looking statements.
   -    currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and other currencies, primarily the Japanese yen, New Taiwan dollar, euro, Chinese yuan and South Korean won;
   -    other risks detailed in Corning’s SEC filings.
 © 2018 Corning Incorporated.
 © 2018 Corning Incorporated.
 © 2018 Corning Incorporated.
 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 © 2018 Corning Incorporated.
