fls.txt
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains or incorporates by reference statements that are not historical in nature and that are intended to be, and are hereby identified as, “forward-looking statements” as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


item1.txt
Continued on next page.
All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
Sales of residential central air conditioners, heating equipment, and parts and supplies are seasonal.
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued guidance on accounting for leases, which requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets for the rights and obligations created by those leases.
In July 2018, the FASB issued updated guidance that provides an additional transition method of adoption that allows entities to initially apply the standard at the adoption date and recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings.
The adoption of this standard and its related amendments (collectively, the “New Lease Standard”) on January 1, 2019, did not result in the recognition of a cumulative adjustment to opening retained earnings under the additional transition method, nor did it have a significant impact on our consolidated statements of income or cash flows.
The New Lease Standard had a material impact on our consolidated balance sheet due to the recognition of right-of-use (“ROU”) assets and lease liabilities for operating leases, while accounting for finance leases remained substantially unchanged.
We have operating leases for real property, vehicles and equipment and finance leases primarily for vehicles.
Operating leases are included in operating lease right-of-use assets, current portion of long-term obligations, and operating lease liabilities in our consolidated balance sheet.
Finance lease ROU assets at March 31, 2019 of $2,783 are included in property and equipment, net in our consolidated balance sheet.
Finance lease liabilities at March 31, 2019 of $2,882 are included in current portion of long-term obligations and other long-term obligations, net of current portion in our consolidated balance sheet.
Operating lease ROU assets also include any lease pre-payments made and exclude lease incentives.
Our leases have remaining lease terms of 1-9 years, some of which include options to extend the leases for up to five years.
Certain real property lease agreements have lease and non-lease components, which are generally accounted for as a single lease component.


item2.txt
the continued viability of our business strategy.
Revenues primarily consist of sales of air conditioning, heating, and refrigeration equipment, and related parts and supplies.
Other significant selling, general and administrative expenses relate to the operation of warehouse facilities, including a fleet of trucks and forklifts, and facility rent, a majority of which facilities we operate under non-cancelable operating leases.
Sales of residential central air conditioners, heating equipment, and parts and supplies are seasonal.
Furthermore, results of operations can be impacted favorably or unfavorably based on weather patterns, primarily during the Summer and Winter selling seasons.
Collectively, the Northeast locations and the Mexico operations are referred to as Carrier Enterprise II.
Revenues for the first quarter of 2019 increased $4.7 million, or 1%, including $4.1 million from locations opened and acquired during the preceding 12 months, offset by $2.7 million from locations closed.
For HVAC equipment, the increase in revenues was primarily due to realization of price increases and a higher mix of high-efficiency air conditioning and heating systems, which sell at higher unit prices, resulting in a 2% increase in the average selling price, partially offset by a 1% decrease in volume.
Gross profit for the first quarter of 2019 increased $2.9 million, or 1%, primarily as a result of increased revenues.
Selling, general and administrative expenses for the first quarter of 2019 increased $1.5 million, or 1%, primarily due to increased revenues.
Other income of $1.4 million and $1.6 million for the first quarters of 2019 and 2018, respectively, represents our share of the net income of RSI.
Interest expense, net, for the first quarter of 2019 increased $0.2 million, or 37%, primarily as a result of an increase in average outstanding borrowings, partially offset by a lower effective interest rate for the 2019 period, in each case under our revolving credit facility, as compared to the same period in 2018.
The effective income tax rates attributable to us were 22.7% and 23.8% for the quarters ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.


item4.txt



part2.txt
filed herewith.


