fls.txt
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains or incorporates by reference statements that are not historical in nature and that are intended to be, and are hereby identified as, “forward-looking statements” as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


item1.txt
The condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements contained in this report include the accounts of Watsco, all of its wholly owned subsidiaries and the accounts of three joint ventures with Carrier Corporation (“Carrier”), in each of which Watsco maintains a controlling interest.
All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
Sales of residential central air conditioners, heating equipment, and parts and supplies are seasonal.
Furthermore, results of operations can be impacted favorably or unfavorably based on weather patterns, primarily during the Summer and Winter selling seasons.
These reclassifications had no effect on net income or earnings per share as previously reported.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the “FASB”) issued a standard on revenue recognition that provides a single, comprehensive revenue recognition model for all contracts with customers.
Under the new guidance, modification accounting is required only if the fair value, the vesting conditions or the classification of the award (as equity or liability) changes as a result of the change in terms or conditions.
We adopted the New Revenue Standard on January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective approach.
Revenue primarily consists of sales of air conditioning, heating and refrigeration equipment and related parts and supplies.
We satisfy our performance obligations for services when we render the services within the agreed-upon service period.
Total service revenue is not material and accounted for less than 1% of our consolidated revenues for both the quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2018.
We estimate product returns based on historical experience and record them on a gross basis.
Sales incentives are accounted for as a reduction in the transaction price and are generally paid on an annual basis.
We generally expense sales commissions when incurred because the amortization period is one year or less.
We do not disclose the value of unsatisfied performance obligations for contracts with an original expected length of one year or less.
borrowings outstanding under the credit agreement are classified as current liabilities in our condensed consolidated unaudited balance sheet at September 30, 2018.


item2.txt
the continued viability of our business strategy.
Revenues primarily consist of sales of air conditioning, heating, and refrigeration equipment, and related parts and supplies.
Other significant selling, general and administrative expenses relate to the operation of warehouse facilities, including a fleet of trucks and forklifts, and facility rent, which are payable mostly under non-cancelable operating leases.
Sales of residential central air conditioners, heating equipment, and parts and supplies are seasonal.
Furthermore, results of operations can be impacted favorably or unfavorably based on weather patterns, primarily during the Summer and Winter selling seasons.
Demand related to the new construction market is generally evenly distributed throughout the year, subject to weather and economic conditions, including their effect on the number of housing completions.
Collectively, the Northeast locations and the Mexico operations are referred to as Carrier Enterprise II.
We did not acquire any material businesses during 2018 or 2017.
Revenues for the third quarter of 2018 increased $66.4 million, or 5%, including $3.4 million from locations opened and acquired during the preceding 12 months, offset by $3.8 million from locations closed.
Gross profit for the third quarter of 2018 increased $23.1 million, or 8%, primarily as a result of increased revenues.
Other income of $3.7 million and $2.3 million for the quarters ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, represents our share of the net income of RSI.
The effective income tax rates attributable to us were 23.3% and 32.8% for the quarters ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.


item4.txt



part2.txt
filed herewith.


