fls.txt
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains or incorporates by reference statements that are not historical in nature and that are intended to be, and are hereby identified as, “forward-looking statements” as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


item1.txt
Sales of residential central air conditioners, heating equipment, and parts and supplies are seasonal.
Furthermore, results of operations can be impacted favorably or unfavorably based on weather patterns, primarily during the Summer and Winter selling seasons.
Certain reclassifications of prior year amounts have been made to conform to the 2018 presentation.
These reclassifications had no effect on net income or earnings per share as previously reported.
The standard is principle-based and provides a five-step model to determine the measurement of revenue and timing of when it is recognized.
A cumulative-effect adjustment captured the previously held unrealized losses of $301 related to our equity investment carried at fair value.
Under this updated standard, an entity should recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value, but the loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.
We adopted the New Revenue Standard on January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective approach.
Revenue primarily consists of sales of air conditioning, heating and refrigeration equipment and related parts and supplies.
obligation under such contracts when we transfer control of the product to the customer.
We satisfy our performance obligations for services when we render the services within the agreed-upon service period.
Revenue is recognized when control transfers to our customers when picked up or via shipment of products or delivery of services.
Revenue for shipping and handling charges is recognized when products are delivered to the customer.
We estimate product returns based on historical experience and record them on a gross basis.
Substantially all customer returns relate to products that are returned under manufacturers’ warranty obligations.
We estimate sales incentives expected to be paid over the term of the program based on the most likely amount.


item2.txt
•   the continued viability of our business strategy.
Revenues primarily consist of sales of air conditioning, heating, and refrigeration equipment, and related parts and supplies.
Other significant selling, general and administrative expenses relate to the operation of warehouse facilities, including a fleet of trucks and forklifts, and facility rent, which are payable mostly under non-cancelable operating leases.
Sales of residential central air conditioners, heating equipment, and parts and supplies are seasonal.
Furthermore, results of operations can be impacted favorably or unfavorably based on weather patterns, primarily during the Summer and Winter selling seasons.
Demand related to the new construction market is generally evenly distributed throughout the year, subject to weather and economic conditions, including their effect on the number of housing completions.
We did not acquire any material businesses during 2018 or 2017.
Revenues for the second quarter of 2018 increased $56.8 million, or 5%, including $6.0 million from locations opened during the preceding 12 months, offset by $3.2 million from locations closed.
Revenues from sales of residential HVAC equipment also benefited from an improved sales mix of higher-efficiency air conditioning and heating systems, which sell at higher unit prices.
Gross profit for the second quarter of 2018 increased $10.5 million, or 3%, primarily as a result of increased revenues.
Selling, general and administrative expenses for the second quarter of 2018 increased $5.6 million, or 3%, primarily due to increased revenues.
Other income of $3.2 million for the second quarter of 2018 represents our share of the net income of RSI.


item4.txt



part2.txt



