fls.txt
We believe these forward-looking statements are reasonable; however, you should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which are based on current expectations.


item1.txt
All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
Sales of residential central air conditioners, heating equipment, and parts and supplies are seasonal.
-lived intangible assets and long-lived intangible assets.
See Note 2.
In January 2017, the FASB issued guidance to simplify the subsequent measurement of goodwill by eliminating Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test.
right-of-use (“ROU”) assets and lease liabilities for operating leases, while accounting for finance leases remained substantially unchanged.
non-lease components for all underlying asset classes.
We have operating leases for real property, vehicles and equipment, and finance leases primarily for vehicles.
other long-term obligations and other long-term obligations, net of current portion in our condensed consolidated unaudited balance sheet.
ROU assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term, and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
expensed as incurred.
1-10 years, some of which include options to extend the leases for up to five years.
Such leases had estimated future minimum rental commitments of approximately $1,600.
five years.


item2.txt
the continued viability of our business strategy.
10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, as well as the other documents and reports that we file with the SEC.
10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
Revenues primarily consist of sales of air conditioning, heating, and refrigeration equipment, and related parts and supplies.
Sales of residential central air conditioners, heating equipment, and parts and supplies are seasonal.
Furthermore, results of operations can be impacted favorably or unfavorably based on weather patterns, primarily during the Summer and Winter selling seasons.
Collectively, the Northeast locations and the Mexico operations are referred to as Carrier Enterprise II.
Homans previously operated as a division of Carrier Enterprise II and now operates as one of our stand-alone-subsidiaries.
10-Q, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
Revenues for the third quarter of 2019 increased $98.9 million, or 8%, including $58.7 million from locations opened and acquired during the preceding 12 months, offset by $4.2 million from locations closed.
Sales of HVAC equipment (68% of sales) increased 8%, sales of other HVAC products (29% of sales) increased 11% and sales of commercial refrigeration products (3% of sales) increased 1%.
On a same-store basis, revenues increased $44.4 million, or 3%, as compared to the same period in 2018, reflecting a 4% increase in sales of HVAC equipment (69% of sales), which included a 6% increase in residential HVAC equipment, a 2% increase in sales of other HVAC products (27% of sales) and 1% increase of commercial refrigeration products (4% of sales).
Gross profit for the third quarter of 2019 increased $15.7 million, or 5%, primarily as a result of increased revenues.


item4.txt
Our management, with the participation of our CEO, EVP and CFO, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this report, and, based on that evaluation, our CEO, EVP and CFO concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective, at a reasonable assurance level, at and as of such date.


