fls.txt
We believe these forward-looking statements are reasonable; however, you should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which are based on current expectations.


item1.txt
Continued on next page.
All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
Sales of residential central air conditioners, heating equipment, and parts and supplies are seasonal.
The adoption of this standard and its related amendments (collectively, the “New Lease Standard”) on January 1, 2019 did not result in the recognition of a cumulative adjustment to opening retained earnings under the additional transition method, nor did it have a significant impact on our consolidated statements of income or cash flows.
right-of-use (“ROU”) assets and lease liabilities for operating leases, while accounting for finance leases remained substantially unchanged.
We elected the package of practical expedients which did not require us to reassess (1) whether existing contracts contain embedded leases, (2) the lease classification of existing leases, and (3) whether initial direct costs for existing leases would qualify for capitalization under the New Lease Standard.
We have operating leases for real property, vehicles and equipment, and finance leases primarily for vehicles.
Finance lease ROU assets at June 30, 2019 of $2,759 are included in property and equipment, net in our condensed consolidated unaudited balance sheet.
Finance lease liabilities at June 30, 2019 of $2,852 are included in current portion of long-term obligations and other long-term obligations, net of current portion in our condensed consolidated unaudited balance sheet.
non-lease components, which are generally accounted for as a single lease component.
Such leases had estimated future minimum rental commitments of approximately $17,000.
These undiscounted amounts are not included in the table above.
Carrier Enterprise I acquired its ownership interest in RSI for cash consideration of $63,600, of which we contributed $50,880 and Carrier contributed $12,720.
This acquisition increased Carrier Enterprise I’s ownership interest in RSI to 38.1%.


item2.txt
10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, as well as the other documents and reports that we file with the SEC.
10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
Revenues primarily consist of sales of air conditioning, heating, and refrigeration equipment, and related parts and supplies.
Sales of residential central air conditioners, heating equipment, and parts and supplies are seasonal.
Furthermore, results of operations can be impacted favorably or unfavorably based on weather patterns, primarily during the Summer and Winter selling seasons.
Collectively, the Northeast locations and the Mexico operations are referred to as Carrier Enterprise II.
Homans previously operated as a division of Carrier Enterprise II and now operates as one of our stand-alone-subsidiaries.
10-K, as filed with the SEC on February 28, 2019.
10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
Revenues for the second quarter of 2019 increased $39.1 million, or 3%, including $22.8 million from locations opened and acquired during the preceding 12 months, offset by $3.6 million from locations closed.
Gross profit for the second quarter of 2019 increased $7.2 million, or 2%, primarily as a result of increased revenues.
non-equipment products.
Selling, general and administrative expenses for the second quarter of 2019 increased $10.0 million, or 5%, primarily due to increased revenues.
Excluding new locations opened or acquired during the last 12 months, selling, general and administrative expenses increased $4.6 million, or 2%.


item4.txt



part2.txt



