fls.txt
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains or incorporates by reference statements that are not historical in nature and that are intended to be, and are hereby identified as, “forward-looking statements” as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


item1.txt
Sales of residential central air conditioners, heating equipment, and parts and supplies are seasonal.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the “FASB”) issued a standard on revenue recognition that provides a single, comprehensive revenue recognition model for all contracts with customers.
The standard is principle-based and provides a five-step model to determine the measurement of revenue and timing of when it is recognized.
Most prominent among the changes to the standard is the requirement that changes in the fair value of equity investments, with certain exceptions, be recognized through net income rather than other comprehensive income.
A cumulative-effect adjustment captured the previously held unrealized losses of $301 related to our equity investment carried at fair value.
In May 2017, the FASB issued guidance to clarify when to account for a change to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award as a modification.
Under the new guidance, modification accounting is required only if the fair value, the vesting conditions or the classification of the award (as equity or liability) changes as a result of the change in terms or conditions.
We will adopt this guidance on January 1, 2019.
In January 2017, the FASB issued guidance to simplify the subsequent measurement of goodwill by eliminating Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test.
Under this updated standard, an entity should recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value, but the loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.
In August 2017, the FASB issued guidance to simplify the accounting for hedging derivatives.
We adopted the New Revenue Standard on January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective approach.
Revenue primarily consists of sales of air conditioning, heating and refrigeration equipment and related parts and supplies.
Our performance obligations for services are satisfied when the services are rendered within the arranged service period.
Revenue is recognized when control transfers to our customers via shipment of products or delivery of services.
We estimate product returns based on historical experience and record them on a gross basis.


item2.txt
•   the continued viability of our business strategy.
The following information should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements, including the notes thereto, included under Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Neither Watsco nor Carrier has any remaining options to purchase additional ownership interests in Carrier Enterprise I or any of our other joint ventures with Carrier, which are described below.
In 2012, we formed a third joint venture, which we refer to as Carrier Enterprise III, with UTC Canada Corporation, referred to as UTC Canada, an affiliate of Carrier.
Our critical accounting policies are included in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K, as filed with the SEC on March 1, 2018.
We believe that there have been no significant changes during the quarter ended March 31, 2018 to the critical accounting policies disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
We did not acquire any material businesses during 2018 or 2017.
Revenues for the first quarter of 2018 increased $54.5 million, or 6%, including $4.6 million from locations opened during the preceding 12 months, offset by $3.3 million from locations closed.
On a same-store basis, revenues increased $53.2 million, or 6%, as compared to the same period in 2017, reflecting an 8% increase in sales of HVAC equipment (66% of sales), which included a 9% increase in residential HVAC equipment and a 4% increase in commercial HVAC equipment, a 5% increase in sales of other HVAC products (29% of sales) and flat sales of commercial refrigeration products (5% of sales).
Gross profit for the first quarter of 2018 increased $12.3 million, or 6%, primarily as a result of increased revenues.
Other income of $1.6 million for the first quarter of 2018 represents our approximate 35% share of the net income of RSI.
Net interest expense for the first quarter of 2018 decreased $0.7 million, or 55%, primarily as a result of a decrease in average outstanding borrowings, partially offset by a higher effective interest rate for the 2018 period, in each case under our revolving credit facility, as compared to the same period in 2017.


item4.txt



part2.txt



