fls.txt
The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying notes included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on November 19, 2018 (the “2018 Annual Report”).


item1.txt
The Company recorded an inventory return asset of $3.2 as of June 30, 2019.
During fiscal 2018, the Company recorded impairment charges of $24.4 on the goodwill of the Infant Care reporting unit.
The Guarantors are 100% owned either directly or indirectly by the Company and jointly and severally guarantee the Company's obligations under the Notes and substantially all of the Company's other outstanding indebtedness.
For the three and nine months ended June 30, 2019, the calculation of diluted weighted-average shares outstanding excludes 0.5 of share options because the effect of including these awards was anti-dilutive.
As a result, the Wet Ones and Diaper Genie trade names were impaired $87.0 and $75.0, respectively as of June 30, 2019.
On October 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASU 2014-09 which provided guidance for accounting for revenue from contracts with customers.
The agreement also provided the Acquirer with indefinite and exclusive worldwide rights to the Playtex trademark for gloves.
The Company had indefinite-lived trade names and brands of $831.5 ($182.2 in Wet Shave, $475.6 in Sun and Skin Care, $29.9 in Feminine Care, and $143.8 in All Other) at September 30, 2018.
Statement of Cash Flows Presentation.
The estimated fair value of the long-term debt was estimated using yields obtained from independent pricing sources for similar types of borrowing arrangements.
The Company has made an accounting policy election to treat GILTI taxes as a current period expense.
As of June 30, 2019, the discount rate used to determine the purchase price for the subject receivables is based upon LIBOR plus a margin applicable to the specified obligor.
Additionally, the carrying amounts of the Company’s revolving credit facilities, which are classified as long-term debt on the balance sheet, approximate fair value due to the revolving nature of the balances.
In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-16 intended to improve the accounting for the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory.
In February 2016, the FASB issued an ASU which amends existing lease accounting guidance to require recognition of lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet for leases previously classified as operating leases.


item2.txt
From a geographic perspective, organic net sales in North America declined 6.1% while International organic net sales decreased 1.1%.
The effectiveness of such credit facilities is subject to the occurrence of customary closing conditions, including the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement.
Capital expenditures totaled $38.7 during the first nine months of fiscal 2019 and included $22.4 of capital expenditures in support of Project Fuel, compared to $41.8 during the same period in the prior year.
As a result, segment net sales and segment profit historically have been higher in the second and third quarters of the fiscal year.
The following table presents changes in net sales for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019, as compared to the corresponding periods in fiscal 2018, and provides a reconciliation of organic net sales to reported amounts.
Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic net sales increased $7.0, or 4.3% driven by growth in all geographic regions with the exception of Asia Pacific.
Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic net sales decreased 6.5% driven by volume declines in Playtex Gentle Glide® branded tampons and Stayfree® branded pads, partially offset by growth in Playtex Sport and o.b.
Refer to additional discussion around goodwill and intangible asset valuation in our 2018 Annual Report.
Organic net sales and organic segment profit exclude the impact of changes in foreign currency, acquisitions, and dispositions (including the acquisition of Jack Black through February 2019 and the disposition of the Playtex gloves business through October 2018).
Feminine Care net sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased $3.2, or 3.8%, inclusive of a 0.4% decline due to the impact of currency movements.
The counterparties to deposits consist of several major financial institutions.
These Non-GAAP measures are referred to as “adjusted” or “organic” and exclude items such as impairment charges, restructuring charges, Harry’s, Inc. (“Harry’s”) acquisition and integration planning costs, advisory expenses in connection with the evaluation of the Feminine and Infant Care businesses, Sun Care reformulation charges, the Jack Black, L.L.C.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt



