In August 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued a new Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") which requires management to evaluate whether there are conditions or events, considered in the aggregate, that raise substantial doubt about the entity's ability to continue as a going concern within one year after the date that the financial statements are issued.
Account receivables sold under this agreement for the three and six months ended March 31, 2018 were $281.5 and $491.6, respectively.
Acquisition of Jack Black.
Many of these legal matters are in preliminary stages and involve complex issues of law and fact, and may proceed for protracted periods of time.
The Company plans to adopt this standard at the beginning of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018.
At times, the Company enters into contractual arrangements (derivatives) to reduce its exposure to foreign currency risk.
The Company is in the process of evaluating the impact the guidance will have on its financial statements.
These derivative instruments have a high correlation to the underlying exposure being hedged and have been deemed highly effective for accounting purposes in offsetting the associated risk.Our total borrowings at September 30, 2017 were $1,544.8.
The effective tax rate for the first six months of 2018 and 2017 was 39.7% and 26.2%, respectively.
The current year periods reflect the negative impact of foreign currency exchange contract gains and losses and the revaluation of nonfunctional currency balance sheet exposures.
For fiscal year 2018, Project Fuel related restructuring charges and capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $40 and $16, respectively.
Industry and Market Data.
The list of factors above is illustrative, but not exhaustive.
We also may refer to brand names, trademarks, service marks and trade names of other companies and organizations, and these brand names, trademarks, service marks and trade names are the property of their respective owners.
The decline was primarily driven by lower sales volumes in Wet Shave and Feminine Care, unfavorable price mix from Wet Shave promotions and Sun Care returns and higher product costs, partially offset by favorable foreign currency impact.Item 1A.