fls.txt
Risk Factors and "Forward-Looking Statements" included within our Annual Report on Form 10-K.


item1.txt
Contract maturities for these hedges extend into fiscal 2019.
The Company manages counterparty risk through the utilization of investment grade commercial banks, diversification of counterparties and its counterparty netting arrangements.
The amount of liability, if any, from these proceedings cannot be determined with certainty.
U.S. Tax Reform
The acquisition was financed through available operating cash.
At June 30, 2018, the Company maintained a cash flow hedging program related to foreign currency risk.
It is also designed to simplify the organization and streamline ways of working in order to increase competitiveness, speed and agility, and ensure the Company has the skills, capabilities and investments needed to compete in a rapidly changing world.
The Company's senior notes issued in May 2011 and May 2012 (collectively, the "Notes") are fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a joint and several basis by the Company's existing and future direct and indirect domestic subsidiaries that are guarantors of any of the Company's credit agreements or other indebtedness for borrowed money (the "Guarantors").
The acquisition creates opportunities to expand Edgewell's personal care portfolio into a growing global category where it can leverage its international geographic footprint.
The amendments note that measurement of share-based payments used to acquire goods or services should be valued at the grant-date fair value.
Due to an increase in Wet Shave footprint costs and a delay in the transition of manufacturing in the Company's Feminine Care segment from Montreal to Dover, Delaware, some anticipated savings are not expected to be realized until fiscal 2019.
The subsidiary guarantee with respect to the Notes is subject to release upon sale of all of the capital stock of the Subsidiary Guarantor; if the guarantee under the Company's credit agreements and other indebtedness for borrowed money is released or discharged (other than due to payment under such guarantee); or when the requirements for legal defeasance are satisfied or the obligations are discharged in accordance with the indenture.
In July 2015, the FASB issued a new ASU which aligns the measurement of inventory under GAAP more closely with International Financial Reporting Standards.


item2.txt
The change was primarily due to the $90.2 acquisition of Jack Black in the second quarter of fiscal 2018, slightly offset by the $19.0 sale of the Playtex gloves business in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
The following tables present changes in segment net sales and segment profit for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018, as compared to the corresponding periods in fiscal 2017, and provide a reconciliation of organic segment net sales and organic segment profit to reported amounts.
Our total borrowings at September 30, 2017 were $1,549.4.
Net earnings and earnings per share ("EPS") for the time periods presented were impacted by the impairment charge, the acquisition of Jack Black, the gain on the sale of the Playtex gloves business, restructuring activities, the related tax impact from these charges and the impact of the Tax Act as described in the table below.
In addition to the expected cost savings and improved profitability, Project Fuel is designed to strengthen our challenger culture and reinforce our consumer-centric organizational focus.
Refer to Note 7 of our Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion on the interim impairment test.
Risk Factors and "Forward-Looking Statements" included within our Annual Report on Form 10-K.
We had outstanding international borrowings, recorded in Notes payable, of $20.9 and $19.4 as of June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively.
The personal care product categories are highly competitive, both in the U.S. and on a global basis, as large manufacturers with global operations compete for consumer acceptance and, increasingly, limited retail shelf space.
From a geographic perspective, organic net sales in North America declined 6%, while International markets experienced a 2% decline.
For the first nine months of fiscal 2018, general corporate expenses were $54.7, or 3.2% of net sales, compared to $58.1, or 3.4% of net sales, in the prior year period.
As of June 30, 2018, we did not have any outstanding borrowings under our unsecured revolving credit facility in the U.S. (the "Revolving Facility").


item3.txt



item4.txt
Item 5.


part2.txt
Risk Factors.
The anticipated savings will provide ongoing financial and operational flexibility for reinvestment to reinforce growth and margin improvement objectives.


