fls.txt
Forward-looking statements generally can be identified by the use of words or phrases such as “believe,” “expect,” “expectation,” “anticipate,” “may,” “could,” “intend,” “belief,” “estimate,” “plan,” “target,” “predict,” “likely,” “will,” “should,” “forecast,” “outlook,” or other similar words or phrases.


item1.txt
The purchaser assumes the credit risk at the time of sale and has the right at any time to assign, transfer, or participate any of its rights under the purchased receivables to another bank or financial institution.
The Company adopted the ASU beginning October 1, 2018 and noted that the impact on its financial statements was not material.
The acquisition creates opportunities to expand the Company’s personal care portfolio into a growing global category where it can leverage its international geographic footprint.
The rate was also unfavorably impacted by $18.5 of restructuring and
Additionally, this update requires qualitative disclosure along with specific quantitative disclosures.
The adoption of ASU 2014-09 required changes in the presentation of returns on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
For the three months ended December 31, 2018, the calculation of diluted weighted-average shares outstanding excludes 0.2 of RSE awards that would have otherwise been dilutive, because the Company reported a net loss.
The plans provide retirement benefits based on years of service and earnings.
The Company accrues, at the time of sale, the estimated total payments and allowances associated with each transaction.
The Company entered into a series of forward currency contracts to hedge cash flow uncertainty associated with currency fluctuations.
In February 2016, the FASB issued an ASU which amends existing lease accounting guidance to require recognition of lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet for leases previously classified as operating leases.
The Company did not repurchase any shares under this authorization during the three months ended December 31, 2018.
The estimated fair value of cash and cash equivalents, short-term borrowings, and the revolving credit agreements have been determined based on Level 2 inputs.
The Company entered into a series of forward currency contracts to hedge cash flow uncertainty associated with currency fluctuations.
Those sales predominantly contain a single delivery element and revenue is recognized at a single point in time when ownership, risks, and rewards transfer.
Due to the nature of cash and cash equivalents and short-term borrowings, including notes payable, carrying amounts on the balance sheets approximate fair value.


item2.txt
Project Fuel is an enterprise-wide transformational initiative, launched in the second fiscal quarter of 2018, designed to address all aspects of our business and cost structure, simplifying and transforming the organization, structure and key processes that will enable us to achieve its desired future state operations.
Our total borrowings were $1,334.1 at December 31, 2018, including $224.0 tied to variable interest rates.
The effective tax rate for the current period includes a $4.7 net transitional charge resulting from the enactment of the Tax Act.
Sales in North America increased due to favorable Sun Care price mix and volume growth in Bulldog.
The decline in operating cash flow in the current quarter was primarily driven by the build of inventory for the upcoming Sun Care season in North America, the processing of returns related to the fiscal 2018 season, and the timing of payments.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2019 Project Fuel related restructuring charges and capital expenditures were $18.5 and $5.3, respectively.
As of December 31, 2018, we were in compliance with the provisions and covenants associated with our debt agreements.
•Adjusted net earnings and adjusted earnings per share are defined as net earnings and diluted earnings per share excluding items such as restructuring charges, the gain on the disposition of the Playtex gloves business, investor settlement expense, Jack Black acquisition and integration costs, Sun Care reformulation charges, the related tax effects of these items, and the impact of the Tax Act.
The decline in interest expense was the result of lower outstanding debt under the U.S. revolving credit facility in fiscal 2019.
Retail sales for purposes of market size, market position and market share information are based on retail sales in U.S. dollars.
Our total borrowings at September 30, 2018 were $1,300.2.


item3.txt
Assuming a one-percent increase in the applicable interest rates, annual interest expense on these variable-rate debt instruments would increase by approximately $2.3.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


