fls.txt
The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying notes included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on November 19, 2018.


item1.txt
Other impacts related to the adoption of the standard were not material to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The net proceeds received were included in cash provided by operating activities and cash provided by investing activities on the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
The Guarantors are 100% owned either directly or indirectly by the Company and jointly and severally guarantee the Company's obligations under the Notes and substantially all of the Company's other outstanding indebtedness.
The amendments provide guidance about which changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award require an entity to apply modification accounting.
The adoption resulted in the recognition of a $1.3 liability for advanced payments from customers in Other current liabilities with a corresponding increase to Trade receivables to reclassify advanced payments from customers from contra-Trade receivables as of October 1, 2018.
The Company generally repatriates a portion of current year earnings from select non-US subsidiaries only if the economic cost of the repatriation is not considered material.
The plans provide retirement benefits based on years of service and earnings.
Accounts receivable are stated at their net realizable value.
Diluted earnings per share is based on the number of shares used for the basic earnings per share calculation, adjusted for the dilutive effect of share options and restricted share equivalent (“RSE”) awards.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued an Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) which provides a single comprehensive revenue recognition model for all contracts with customers to improve comparability within industries, across industries, and across capital markets.
The Company had indefinite-lived intangible assets of $828.9 ($179.6 in Wet Shave, $475.6 in Sun and Skin Care, $29.9 in Feminine Care, and $143.8 in All Other) at March 31, 2019, a decrease of $2.6 from September 30, 2018, resulting from changes in foreign currency translation rates.
On May 8, 2019, the Company entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (“Merger Agreement”) to acquire Harry’s, Inc., an innovative shaving retailer, for total consideration of approximately $1,370.0 in cash and stock, subject to adjustment pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement.
The Company adopted the ASU for revenue recognition beginning October 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method.
On September 15, 2017, the Company entered into the Accounts Receivable Facility.
In February 2018, the Company announced Project Fuel, an enterprise-wide transformational initiative that is designed to address all aspects of the Company’s business and cost structure, simplifying and transforming the organization, structure, and key processes that will provide the necessary catalyst for further re-investment in the Company’s growth objectives while enabling the Company to achieve its desired future state operations.


item2.txt
Feminine Care net sales for the first six months of fiscal 2019 decreased $13.6, or 8.3%, inclusive of a 0.2% decline due to the impact of currency movements.
The following table presents changes in net sales for the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019, as compared to the corresponding periods in fiscal 2018, and provides a reconciliation of organic net sales to reported amounts.
All Other net sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 increased 7.3%, inclusive of a 1.0% decline from the impact of currency movements.
There have been no other material changes in our contractual obligations since the presentation in our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on November 19, 2018.
As of March 31, 2019, we had outstanding borrowings of $215.0 under our unsecured revolving credit facility in the U.S. (the “Revolving Facility”) and $8.5 of outstanding letters of credit.
Gross margin as a percent of net sales for the first six months of fiscal 2019 was 44.3%, down 220 basis points as compared to the prior year period.
The following table presents changes in net sales for the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019, as compared to the corresponding periods in fiscal 2018, and provides a reconciliation of organic net sales to reported amounts.
Sun and Skin Care net sales for the first six months of fiscal 2019 increased 0.2%, inclusive of an 8.1% increase due to the acquisition of Jack Black, a 0.5% decline due to the Playtex gloves sale and a 1.5% decline due to currency movements.
We manage our worldwide cash requirements by reviewing available funds among the many subsidiaries through which we conduct business and the cost effectiveness with which those funds can be accessed.
We consistently monitor positions with, and credit ratings of, counterparties both internally and by using outside ratings agencies.
While we report financial results in accordance with GAAP, this discussion also includes Non-GAAP measures.
Risk Factors and “Forward-Looking Statements” included within our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on November 19, 2018.


item3.txt
For further information on our foreign currency derivative instruments, refer to Note 14 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.


item4.txt



part2.txt



