fls.txt
These statements are not guarantees of performance and are inherently subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict and could cause our actual results to differ materially from those indicated by those statements.


item1.txt
Under the new guidance, an entity that measures inventory using FIFO or average cost should measure inventory at the lower of cost and net realizable value.
These derivative instruments have a high correlation to the underlying exposure being hedged and have been deemed highly effective for accounting purposes in offsetting the associated risk.
The estimated fair value of variable-rate debt, excluding revolving credit facilities, which consists of bank debt, was $185.0 compared to its carrying value of $184.7 at December 31, 2017 and September 30, 2017.
The Company had outstanding, variable-rate international borrowings, recorded in Notes payable, of $21.1 and $19.4 as of December 31, 2017 and September 30, 2017, respectively.
Such allocations are estimates, and do not represent the costs of such services if performed on a stand-alone basis.
Revenues are primarily generated from the sale of finished products to customers.
Item 1A.
The estimates of the transition impact of the Tax Act, as discussed above, are provisional.
The estimated fair value of the long-term debt was estimated using yields obtained from independent pricing sources for similar types of borrowing arrangements.
During fiscal 2017, the Company recorded impairment charges of $312.0 and $7.0 on its Playtex and Edge brand names, respectively.
The Company generally repatriates a portion of current year earnings from select non-US subsidiaries only if the economic cost of the repatriation is not considered material.
At times, the Company enters into contractual arrangements (derivatives) to reduce its exposure to foreign currency.


item2.txt
The amount of liability, if any, from these proceedings cannot be determined with certainty.
We review our legal proceedings and claims, regulatory reviews and inspections and other legal proceedings on an ongoing basis and follow appropriate accounting guidance when making accrual and disclosure decisions.
Net earnings and earnings per share ("EPS") for the time periods presented were impacted by the gain on the sale of the Playtex gloves business, restructuring activities, the related tax impact from those costs and the impact of the Tax Act as described in the table below.
Trademarks and Trade Names.
At September 30, 2017, we had outstanding borrowings of $245.0 under the Revolving Facility.
The increase in corporate expenses compared to the prior year quarter was driven by a loss on the sale of an asset related to our ZBS initiative and executive severance related charges.
Innovation launches by the Company across the Wet Shave segment are expected to grow share in this decelerating environment in addition to expected gains in e-commerce distribution and share.
Amortization expense also increased from the conversion of the Playtex and Edge brand names to definite lived intangible assets in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017.
Given our extensive international operations, a significant portion of our cash is denominated in foreign currencies.
The improvement in operating cash flow was driven by changes in working capital, primarily accounts receivable and inventory.
The effective tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal 2017 includes favorable adjustments related to prior year provision estimates, which reduced the effective rate by approximately 4%.
Organic net sales and organic segment profit exclude the impact of changes in foreign currency, acquisitions and dispositions (including the disposition of the gloves business and acquisition of Bulldog).
The effective tax rate for the first quarters of fiscal 2018 and 2017 was 79.8% and 25.4%, respectively.


item3.txt
None.


item4.txt
Item 6.


part2.txt
Mine Safety Disclosures.
Mine Safety Disclosures.


