fls.txt
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”) provides a historical and prospective narrative on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations.


item1.txt
See our 2018 Form 10-K, Part I, Item 3.


item2.txt
Under our Framework, we target generating $26 billion to $30 billion of cash through 2019, returning more than $12.5 billion to shareholders and investing $10 billion to extend our leadership positions and deliver growth.
Corning is concentrating approximately 80% of its research, development and engineering investment and capital spending on a cohesive set of three core technologies, four manufacturing and engineering platforms, and five market-access platforms.
Net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2019 were $2.8 billion, compared to $2.5 billion in the same period in 2018.
The increase was led by the Optical Communications segment, which increased $178 million, due to higher sales of carrier network products in North America, an increase in sales of enterprise network products from growth in hyper-scale data centers and sales from our acquisition of 3M’s Communication Markets Division (“CMD”).
Net sales for Environmental Technologies increased $40 million driven primarily by sales growth of gas particulate filters.
·    Higher segment net income in all our business segments and All Other segment, up $68 million.
Diluted earnings per share increased by $1.27 per share when compared to the first quarter of 2018, driven by the increase in net income described above, coupled with the repurchase of 55.5 million shares of common stock over the last twelve months.
We believe 2019 will be another year of strong growth and investment, consistent with our Strategy and Capital Allocation Framework.
We anticipate Corning’s display glass volume will grow faster than the expected display glass market growth of mid-single digits, driven by television screen size growth and the ramp of our Gen 10.5 facility in China.
We expect growth in the Specialty Materials segment, the rate of which will depend on the adoption of our innovations.
We anticipate low to mid-single digit percentage growth in sales for the Life Sciences segment.
·    An increase of $11 million in the Life Sciences segment, driven by higher sales in all product categories.
Movements in foreign exchange rates increased Corning’s consolidated net sales in the amount of $25 million in the three months ended March 31, 2019, when compared to the prior year.
In the three months ended March 31, 2019, gross margin increased by $144 million, or 15% primarily driven by an increase in sales across all operating segments.
·    An increase of $25 million in the Optical Communications segment, driven largely by the acquisition of CMD in June 2018.
As a percentage of sales, these expenses decreased by 1% when compared to the same period last year.
Equity in earnings of affiliated companies decreased by $14 million, driven by the absence of a gain recorded in the first quarter of 2018 resulting from a legal settlement.
The translation impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, including the impact of hedges realized in the current quarter, did not materially impact Corning’s consolidated income before income taxes in the three months ended March 31, 2019 when compared to the same periods in 2018.
(1)    Refer to Note 6 (Earnings (Loss) per Common Share) to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.
For the three months ended March 31, 2019 comprehensive income increased by $667 million when compared to the same period in 2018, due to an increase in net income of $1.1 billion.
The increase in net income was offset by the negative impacts of the change in foreign currency translation gains and losses of $374 million, driven primarily by the Japanese yen and the Korean won, and $53 million related to the adoption of the new standard for reclassification of stranded tax effects in AOCI.
Corning utilizes constant currency reporting for our Display Technologies and Specialty Materials segments for the Japanese yen, South Korean won, Chinese yuan and new Taiwan dollar currencies.
Effective January 1, 2019, Corning also began using constant currency reporting for our Environmental Technologies and Life Sciences segments for the euro, Japanese yen and Chinese yuan.
For a reconciliation of non-GAAP performance measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, please see “Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures” below.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Based on that evaluation, we have concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of that date.


part2.txt
See our 2018 Form 10-K, Part I, Item 3.
There have been no material changes to Part I, Item 1A.


