CCUR Holdings, Inc. CCUR Holdings, Inc. ccur holdings, inc. ccur holdings, inc. ccur holdings, inc. ccur holdings, inc. 1.Overview of Business and Basis of Presentation References herein to “CCUR Holdings,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” or “our” refer to CCUR Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis unless the context specifically indicates otherwise.
On December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our content delivery and storage business (the “Content Delivery business”) and other related assets to Vecima Networks, Inc. (“Vecima”) pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of October 13, 2017, between the Company and Vecima.
Prior year information has been adjusted to conform to the current year presentation.
Unless otherwise stated, the information disclosed in the footnotes accompanying the consolidated financial statements refers to continuing operations.
See Note 3 for more information regarding results from discontinued operations.
During the first quarter of our fiscal year 2019 we created Recur Holdings LLC (“Recur Holdings”), a Delaware limited liability company wholly owned by the Company.
LMCS will do business as “LuxeMark Capital” with daily operations led by the three LuxeMark principals.
Through LMCS, we (i) continue to operate the LuxeMark syndication network by sourcing syndication funding for MCA originators and providing reporting and other administrative services in exchange for a syndication fee, (ii) directly purchase participation interests from MCA originators for LMCS’ own MCA portfolio and (iii) provide loans to MCA originators to fund the MCAs themselves, which generates interest income and syndication fee income from servicing those MCAs.
GAAP”) have been omitted pursuant to applicable rules and regulations.References herein to “CCUR Holdings,” the “Company,” “we,” “us” or “our” refer to CCUR Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the context specifically indicates otherwise.
Substantially all assets and liabilities associated with the Content Delivery business were assigned to Vecima as part of the transaction.
Results of the Content Delivery business are retrospectively reflected as discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for fiscal year 2018 (see Note 3, “Discontinued Operations,” to the accompanying consolidated financial statements).
The Investment Committee, a special sub-committee of the Company’s Board of Directors (the “Board of Directors” or the “Board”), was established in December 2017 upon the signing of the CDN APA for the purpose of considering alternative means to deploy the proceeds of the sale of the Content Delivery business and other corporate assets to maximize long-term value for our stockholders.
Other than the restrictions set forth in the relevant non-competition and non-solicitation agreement executed by the Company in connection with the disposition of our prior operations, there are no restrictions on the transactions that we can pursue, including with respect to industry sector and geographic location.
The Asset Management Committee, among other things, continues the work of the former Investment Committee by providing oversight of the Company’s acquisition process and also manages the Company’s ongoing operations and assets (including continued expansion and development of its real estate and merchant cash advance (“MCA”) operations) and those of any subsequently acquired businesses.We are not presently involved in any material litigation.
However, we are, from time to time, party to various routine legal proceedings arising out of our business.
Item 1A.Risk Factors Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018, except as noted below.