fls.txt
The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto, which appear elsewhere herein.


item1.txt
Item 1.Financial Statements CCUR Holdings, Inc. CCUR Holdings, Inc. ccur holdings, inc. ccur holdings, inc. ccur holdings, inc. 1.Overview of the Business and Basis of Presentation During the first quarter of our fiscal year 2019 we created Recur Holdings LLC (“Recur”), a Delaware limited liability company wholly owned by the Company.
LMCS does business as “LuxeMark Capital” with daily operations led by the three principals of Old LuxeMark.
Through LMCS, we (i) continue to operate the Old LuxeMark syndication network by sourcing syndication funding for MCA originators and providing reporting and other administrative services in exchange for a syndication fee, (ii) directly purchase participation interests from MCA originators for LMCS’ own MCA portfolio and (iii) provide loans to MCA originators to fund the MCAs themselves, which generates interest income and syndication fee income from servicing those MCAs.
The accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements included herein have been prepared by the Company pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).
We reflect recoveries in the reserve for transaction losses as collected.
Land investment assets are stated at acquired cost.
Gains and losses resulting from the disposition of real estate are included in operations.
As of September 30, 2019, all land held by the Company is considered to be held for use and development.
Diluted earnings (loss) per share is computed by dividing net income (loss) by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding including dilutive common share equivalents.
Under the treasury stock method, incremental shares representing the number of additional common shares that would have been outstanding if the dilutive potential common shares had been issued are included in the computation.
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly fashion between market participants at the measurement date.
·Level 3 Assets or liabilities for which fair value is based on valuation models with significant unobservable pricing inputs and which include the use of management estimates.
Our investment portfolio consists of money market funds, equity securities, and corporate debt.
All cash equivalents are carried at cost less any unamortized premium or discount, which approximates fair value.
All investments with original maturities of more than three months are classified as available-for-sale, trading or held-to-maturity investments.
Interest on securities is recorded in interest income.
Dividends paid by securities are recorded in dividend income.


item2.txt
References herein to “CCUR Holdings,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” or “our” refer to CCUR Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the context specifically indicates otherwise.
Since commencing our real estate operations, we have made several commercial loans secured by real property.
Recur currently provides commercial loans to local, regional, and national builders, developers, and commercial landowners and is also acquiring, owning, and managing a portfolio of real property for development.
Recur does not provide consumer mortgages.
The SEC defines “critical accounting estimates” as those that require application of management’s most difficult, subjective, or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain and may change in subsequent periods.
We recognize revenue in accordance with the appropriate accounting guidance as described in our critical accounting policies.
Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of commissions, travel, employee salaries, benefits, and consulting fees.
General and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries, benefits, overhead, management travel, administrative personnel, rent, information systems, insurance, accounting, legal services, board of director fees and expenses, and other professional services.
Other interest income is earned on cash overnight sweep accounts and money market deposits, as well as investments in debt securities.
Interest income also includes accretion of discounts for which we purchased debt securities whereby such discount is amortized over the term of the debt security to its commitment value that will be due on the maturity date, as well as early repayment.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 1A.Risk Factors Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019.


