fls.txt
All forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events to differ materially from those projected.
The risks and uncertainties which could affect our financial condition or results of operations include, without limitation: uncertainty caused by the Company’s suspension of trading on The Nasdaq Stock Market and subsequent transfer of our stock listing to the OTCQB Venture Market; the process of evaluating strategic alternatives; the Company’s ability to compete with experienced investors in the acquisition of one or more businesses, the Company’s ability to consummate proposed acquisition transactions; the Company’s ability to utilize its NOLs to offset cash taxes, in general, and in the event of an ownership change as defined by the Internal Revenue Code; changes in and related uncertainties caused by changes in applicable tax laws, the current macroeconomic environment generally and with respect to acquisitions and the financing thereof; continuing unevenness of the global economic recovery; the availability of debt or equity financing to support any liquidity needs; global terrorism; and earthquakes, tsunamis, floods and other natural disasters.


item1.txt
CCUR Holdings, Inc. CCUR Holdings, Inc. ccur holdings, inc. ccur holdings, inc. 1.Overview of Business and Basis of Presentation References herein to “CCUR Holdings,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” or “our” refer to CCUR Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries unless the context specifically indicates otherwise.
CCUR Holdings was formerly known as Concurrent Computer Corporation and changed its name on January 2, 2018.
In May 2017, we sold our Real-Time business consisting of real-time Linux operating system versions, development and performance optimization tools, simulation software and other system software combined, in many cases, with computer platforms and services.
Substantially all liabilities associated with the Content Delivery business were assigned to Vecima as part of the transaction.
The Content Delivery business consisted of (i) software, hardware and services for intelligently streaming video content to a variety of consumer devices and storing and managing content in the network and (ii) Aquari™ Storage, a unified scale-out storage solutions product that is ideally suited for a wide range of enterprise IT and video applications that require advanced performance, very large storage capacities, and a high degree of reliability.
See Note 3 “Discontinued Operations” for more information regarding results from discontinued operations.
Based on the success of these activities, including the yield characteristics of these loans, and management’s experience in the real estate area, we created Recur Holdings LLC, a Delaware limited liability company wholly owned by the Company, during the first quarter of our fiscal year 2019.
The accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements included herein have been prepared by the Company pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).
We meet the SEC’s definition of a “Smaller Reporting Company,” and therefore qualify for the SEC’s reduced disclosure requirements for smaller reporting companies.
Held-to-maturity securities are recorded as either short term or long term in the consolidated balance sheet based on contractual maturity date and are stated at amortized cost.
The fee is earned over the six-month advance period and is reported as part of other interest income within the statement of operations.
Each quarter, we review the carrying value of this cash advance, and determine if an impairment reserve is necessary.
As of September 30, 2018, our advance receivable was not impaired.
Basic earnings (loss) per share is computed by dividing income (loss) by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during each year.


item2.txt
References herein to the “current year period” and the “prior year period” refer to the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
In May 2017, we sold our Real-Time business consisting of real-time Linux operating system versions, development and performance optimization tools, simulation software and other system software combined to Real-Time, Inc. pursuant to an Asset and Share Purchase Agreement.
Substantially all assets and liabilities associated with the Content Delivery business were assigned to Vecima as part of the transaction.
Results of the Content Delivery business are retrospectively reflected as discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for all periods presented (see Note 3, “Discontinued Operations,” to the accompanying consolidated financial statements).
A special committee of the Board, the Investment Committee, was established upon the signing of the CDN APA for the purpose of considering alternative means to deploy the proceeds of the sale of the Content Delivery business and other corporate assets to maximize long-term value for our stockholders.
We have received referrals with respect to and have performed due diligence assessments on multiple target companies and strategic opportunities in a variety of industries.
We work with several financial advisors and consultants on a non-exclusive basis and have been able to filter leads and referrals through diverse channels enabling us to review a wide range of opportunities in a variety of industries.
Our acquisition process is focused on identifying fairly- to under-valued businesses that have growth potential.
On October 2, 2018, we announced that the Company entered into a non-binding letter of intent (the “LOI”) to acquire an 80% membership interest in LuxeMark Capital, LLC (“LuxeMark”), a privately held firm focused on the rapidly growing merchant cash advance sector of the finance industry that provides financing to small and medium-sized businesses.
Additionally, the Company will commit up to $10 million of syndication capital under a separate agreement with LuxeMark, which amount shall be placed by LuxeMark with its qualified funders.
The acquisition and deployment of syndication capital are subject to a number of conditions including the negotiation of definitive documentation and completion of CCUR’s due diligence investigation to CCUR’s satisfaction during a 120-day exclusivity period.


item4.txt
We conducted an evaluation as of September 30, 2018, under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures.


part2.txt
Item 1.
We are not presently involved in any material litigation.


