fls.txt
The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto which appear elsewhere herein.


item1.txt
CCUR Holdings, Inc. CCUR Holdings, Inc. ccur holdings, inc. ccur holdings, inc. ccur holdings, inc. 1.Overview of Business and Basis of Presentation References herein to “CCUR Holdings,” the “Company,” “we,” “our,” or “us” refer to CCUR Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries unless the context specifically indicates otherwise.
CCUR Holdings was formerly known as Concurrent Computer Corporation and changed its name on January 2, 2018.
Substantially all liabilities associated with the Content Delivery business were assigned to Vecima as part of the transaction.
The Content Delivery business provided advanced applications focused on storing, protecting, transforming, and delivering high value media assets and served industries and customers that demand uncompromising performance, reliability and flexibility to gain a competitive edge, drive meaningful growth and confidently deliver best-in-class solutions that enrich the lives of millions of people around the world every day.
The Content Delivery business consisted of (1) software, hardware and services for intelligently streaming video content to a variety of consumer devices and storing and managing content in the network and (2) Aquari™ Storage, a unified scale-out storage solutions product that is ideally suited for a wide range of enterprise IT and video applications that require advanced performance, very large storage capacities, and a high degree of reliability.
In May 2017, we sold our Real-Time business consisting of real-time Linux operating system versions, development and performance optimization tools, simulation software and other system software combined, in many cases, with computer platforms and services.
These real-time products were sold to a wide variety of companies seeking high performance, real-time computer solutions in the defense, aerospace, financial and automotive markets around the world.
Prior year information has been adjusted to conform with the current year presentation.
Unless otherwise stated, the information disclosed in the footnotes accompanying the condensed consolidated financial statements refers to continuing operations.
See Note 4 – Discontinued Operations for more information regarding results from discontinued operations.
We meet the SEC’s definition of a “Smaller Reporting Company,” and therefore qualify for the SEC’s reduced disclosure requirements for smaller reporting companies.
Held-to-maturity securities are recorded as either short term or long term in the condensed consolidated balance sheet based on contractual maturity date and are stated at amortized cost.
Marketable securities that are bought and held principally for the purpose of selling them in the near term are classified as trading securities and are reported as fair value, with unrealized gains and losses recognized in earnings.
ASU 2016-02 requires a lessee to recognize a lease liability for the obligation to make lease payments and a right-to-use asset for the right to use the underlying asset for the lease term.
2016-15, Clarification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments (“ASU 2016-15”), which eliminates the diversity in practice related to the classification of certain cash receipts and payments in the statement of cash flows, by adding or clarifying guidance on eight specific cash flow issues.
The amendments in this update should be applied retrospectively to all periods presented, unless deemed impracticable, in which case, prospective application is permitted.
For accounting and financial reporting purposes, businesses are generally comprised of three elements; inputs, processes, and outputs.


item2.txt
References herein to “CCUR Holdings,” the “Company,” “we,” “our” or “us” refer to CCUR Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries unless the context specifically indicates otherwise.
The Real-Time business provided real-time Linux operating system variants, development and performance optimization tools, simulation software and other system software combined, in many cases, with computer platforms and services.
Prior to the sale, we sold our Real-Time business products to a wide variety of companies seeking high performance, real-time computer solutions in the defense, aerospace, financial and automotive markets around the world.
Having divested both our Real-Time and Content Delivery businesses, we are now in the process of evaluating opportunities intended to maximize the value of our remaining assets, which consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents, available-for-sale investments, escrow funds receivable, and approximately $56 million in U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards.
This process includes the evaluation of opportunities to invest in or acquire one or more operating businesses intended to provide appreciation in value, thereby enhancing the Company’s liquidity, and potentially allowing us greater ability to utilize existing net operating loss carryforwards.
If the Investment Committee is unable to identify a suitable acquisition target that is appropriately valued, we may consider alternatives for returning capital to stockholders while we wind up our affairs.
Results of our Content Delivery and Real-Time businesses are retrospectively reflected as discontinued operations in our consolidated financial statements for all periods presented (see Note 4 to the condensed consolidated financial statements).


item3.txt



item4.txt
The term “disclosure controls and procedures,” as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act, means controls and other procedures of a company that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms.


part2.txt
We are not presently involved in any material litigation.
However, we are, from time to time, party to various routine legal proceedings arising out of our business.
Item 1A.
Additional risk factors are discussed in Part I, Item 1A.


