Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries As of September 30, 2018 the $18.3 million of consideration for the Miles acquisition was included in other current liabilities of the Company's Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as it was not funded until October 2018.
Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries The Company is continuing to evaluate the classification of the 2017 and 2018 acquisitions that collectively make up the EbixCash Financial Exchanges, refer to Part I, Item I Business in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Restricted Cash- As part of the Wdev Solucoes em Technologia SA ("Wdev") acquisition, upfront cash consideration is being held in an escrow account for the thirty-eight month period following the effective date of the acquisition to ensure that the acquired business achieves the minimum specified annual net revenue threshold, which if not achieved will result in said funds being returned to Ebix.
As of September 30, 2018 there is $2.5 million included in other long-term assets of the Company's Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Under legacy US GAAP 340-20, direct response advertising was eligible for capitalization if certain conditions were met.
During the first nine months of 2017 reported sales and marketing expenses included $3.0 million of amortization of certain direct-response advertising costs associated with our medical education services, which have been capitalized in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Topic 340.
•Short-term investments (commercial bank certificates of deposits and mutual funds), for which the fair values are measured as a Level 1 instrument.
•Contingent accrued earn-out business acquisition consideration liabilities for which fair values are measured as Level 3 instruments.
As the fair value measure is based on significant inputs that are not observable in the market, they are categorized as Level 3.
The Company applies these terms in its calculation and determination of the fair value of contingent earn out liabilities for purchased businesses as part of the related valuation and purchase price allocation exercise for the corresponding acquired assets and liabilities.
Revenue Recognition—In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers ("Topic 606").As used herein, the terms “Ebix,” “the Company,” “we,” “our” and “us” refer to Ebix, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries as a combined entity, except where it is clear that the terms mean only Ebix, Inc.
Safe Harbor for Forward-Looking Statements—This Form 10-Q and certain information incorporated herein by reference contains forward-looking statements and information within the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
You may obtain our SEC filings at our website, www.ebix.com under the “Investor Information” section, or over the Internet at the SEC’s website, www.sec.gov.
Ebix is a leading international supplier of on-demand infrastructure exchanges to the insurance, financial, and healthcare industries.
In the insurance sector, the Company’s main focus is to develop and deploy a wide variety of insurance and reinsurance exchanges on an on-demand basis, while also, providing SaaS enterprise solutions in the area of CRM, front-end and back-end systems, outsourced administrative and risk compliance.
With a "Phygital” strategy that combines 231,500 physical distribution outlets in many ASEAN countries to an Omni-channel online digital platform, the Company’s EbixCash Financial exchange portfolio encompasses leadership in areas of domestic and international money remittance, travel, pre-paid and gift cards, utility payments, etc., in emerging countries such as India.
EbixCash, through its travel portal Via.com, is also one of Southeast Asia’s leading travel exchanges with over 110,000 distribution outlets and 8,000 corporate clients processing over 24.5 million transactions every year.