fls.txt



item1.txt
Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries The Company is continuing to evaluate the classification of the 2017 acquisitions that collectively make up the EbixCash Financial Exchanges, refer to Part I, Item I Business in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Under legacy US GAAP 340-20, direct response advertising was eligible for capitalization if certain conditions were met.
Effective January 1, 2018 Subtopic 340-40 replaced that guidance to require the costs of direct-response advertising to be expensed as they are incurred or the first time the advertising takes place.
The Company was required to recognize a cumulative effective change to opening retained earnings in the year of adoption of the standard.
•Level 2 Inputs - Other than quoted prices included in Level 1 inputs, which are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the asset or liability.
•Short-term investments (commercial bank certificates of deposits and mutual funds), for which the fair values are measured as a Level 1 instrument.
•Contingent accrued earn-out business acquisition consideration liabilities for which fair values are measured as Level 3 instruments.
These contingent consideration liabilities were recorded at fair value on the acquisition date and are re-measured quarterly based on the then assessed fair value and adjusted if necessary.
During 2017, certain of the Company's contingent earn out liabilities were adjusted because of changes to anticipated future revenues from these acquired businesses, or as a result of finalizing purchase price allocations that were previously provisional.
Revenue Recognition—In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606).
The Company derives its revenues primarily from subscription and transaction fees pertaining to services delivered over our exchanges or from our application service provider ("ASP") platforms, fees for risk compliance solution services, and fees for software development projects including associated fees for consulting, implementation, training, and project management provided to customers with installed systems and applications.
For contracts that contain multiple deliverables, we analyze the revenue arrangements in accordance with the relevant technical accounting guidance, which provides criteria governing how to determine whether goods or services that are delivered separately in a bundled sales arrangement should be considered as separate performance obligations for the purpose of revenue recognition.
Delivery of the various contractual obligations typically occurs over periods of less than eighteen months.
These arrangements generally do not have refund provisions or have very limited refund terms.
Software development arrangements involving significant customization, modification or production are accounted for in accordance with the appropriate technical accounting guidance issued by FASB using the percentage-of-completion method.
The Company recognizes revenue using periodic reported actual hours worked as a percentage of total expected hours required to complete the project arrangement and applies the percentage to the total arrangement fee.


item2.txt
Safe Harbor for Forward-Looking Statements—This Form 10-Q and certain information incorporated herein by reference contains forward-looking statements and information within the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
You may obtain our SEC filings at our website, www.ebix.com under the “Investor Information” section, or over the Internet at the SEC’s website, www.sec.gov.
The Company’s technology vision is to focus on the convergence of all channels, processes and entities in a manner such that data seamlessly flows once a data entry has initially been made.
Ebix strives to work collaboratively with clients to develop innovative technology strategies and solutions that address specific business challenges and requirements.
Ebix combines the newest technologies with its capabilities in consulting, systems design and integration, IT and business process outsourcing, applications software, and web and application hosting to meet the individual needs of organizations.
The Company also has multiple operating facilities and offices in Australia, Brazil, Thailand, New Zealand, the United Kingdom, Canada, Singapore, Dubai, and India.
In these operating offices, Ebix employs insurance and technology professionals who provide products, services, support and consultancy to thousands of customers across six continents.
The Company is continuing to evaluate the classification of the 2017 acquisitions that collectively make up the EbixCash Financial Exchanges, refer to Part I, Item I Business in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Currently they are reported under Exchange channel, but is subject to change based on the conclusions of our evaluations.
With respect to business acquisitions completed during the years 2018 and 2017 on a pro forma basis, as disclosed in the above pro forma financial information table, combined revenues decreased 2.7% for the three months ending March 31, 2018 versus the same periods in 2017.


item3.txt
However, the Company has operations in Australia, India (specifically EbixCash), New Zealand, Great Britain, Canada, Brazil, Dubai, Singapore, Philippines, Indonesia, and United Arab Emirates where we conduct transactions in the local currencies of each of these locations.There can be no assurance that fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, operating results, revenues or financial condition.


item4.txt
We monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis our disclosure controls and procedures in order to improve their overall effectiveness.


part2.txt
None.


