In the second quarter of Fiscal 2018, Management completed a plan to sell the Company's current headquarters' building and adjacent vacant land and move to another local facility that better aligns to the needs of the business. At that time, Management believed it was probable that the sale of the building and land would occur in the next twelve months. As of the third quarter of Fiscal 2018, Management believes that only the sale of certain parcels of the adjacent vacant land is probable to occur in the next twelve months. As of the second quarter of Fiscal 2019, Management continues to believe that only the sale of certain parcels of 
Company management is continuing to assess ways to align costs with revenues to improve profitability.
Our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent on raising additional capital to repay our indebtedness when due and to fund our operations and ultimately on generating future profitable operating results. As part of the Company’s review of its strategic alternatives, the Company agreed under the Second Amended Credit Agreement to pursue the sale of its Federal Business (as defined in Note 6). On August 27, 2018, the Company completed the sale of the Federal Business. 
The accounting policies of the operating segments are the same as those of the Company. The Company allocates resources to its operating segments and evaluates the performance of the operating segments based upon operating income.
Accounts receivable increased $4,859 mainly due to the timing of revenues recognized in the quarter, primarily driven by increased collections at the previous fiscal year end. Costs in excess of billings decreased $1,870 as a result of as a result of changes related to infrastructure projects in North American Services. Billings in excess of costs decreased $371 stemming from an increase in average collection days, primarily driven by infrastructure projects in North American Services. Deferred revenue, including the long-term portion which is included in Other liabilities within the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets, decreased $2,771 as a result of a decline in maintenance services revenues in North American Services. During Fiscal 2019, the Company recognized revenues of $23,610 and $5,490 that was included in deferred revenue and billings in excess of costs at March 31, 2018, respectively.
The total fair value of shares that vested during the six-months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 was $338 and $1,894, respectively.
The following tables break down revenues by offering types at the operating segment level. Refer to the Performance obligations section below for further information on these offering types.
The Company believes the net proceeds from the sale of the Federal Business and the availability under the LIFO will enable the Company to operate through the expected period it will take to close the Merger Agreement, and continues to look into further actions to improve cash flow. 
Products revenues represent product-only networking solutions sold through our Products platform. The Company employs point in time revenue recognition to our Products revenues when control of these products transfer to our customers, which generally occurs upon shipment from the Company's location. Payments are due from customers after we satisfy these performance obligations. While it is our standard business practice to control products and services before these products and services are transferred to customers, and thus act as the principal in arrangements, there are certain arrangements in which the Company acts as an agent whereby revenues are recognized for the amounts into which we expect to be entitled to when our performance obligations as the agent are satisfied, which has historically been at a point in time. 
Revenues recognized in the three- and six-months ended September 30, 2018 periods from performance obligations satisfied (or partially satisfied) in previous periods, as a result of changes in estimates under the cost-to-cost input method or otherwise, were $1,604 and $1,275, respectively. Revenues related to remaining unsatisfied performance obligations from open contracts that have not yet been recognized through the second quarter of Fiscal 2019 are $237,226, $117,372 of which is expected to be recognized in the next six months.
The Company’s fiscal year ends on March 31. The fiscal quarters consist of 13 weeks and end on the Saturday generally nearest each calendar quarter end, adjusted to provide relatively equivalent business days for each fiscal quarter. The actual ending dates for the periods presented in these Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as of September 30, 2018 and 2017 were September 29, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively. References herein to "Fiscal Year" or "Fiscal" mean the Company’s fiscal year ended March 31 for the year referenced. All references to dollar amounts herein are presented in thousands, except per share amounts, unless otherwise noted.Total Operating loss margin was 5.0%, an increase compared to 7.3% in the same period last year. Products Operating loss margin was 4.4%, an improvement compared to 5.3% in the same period last year, primarily due to lower operating expenses partially offset by lower gross profit. Services Operating loss margin was 5.1%, an improvement compared to 7.8% in the same period last year, primarily due to lower operating expenses partially offset by lower gross profit as well.
Total operating loss margin was 5.9%, compared to a total operating loss margin of 5.4% in the same period last year. Services operating loss margin was 6.5%, compared to Services operating loss margin of 8.2% in the same period last year, primarily due to lower operating expenses partially offset by lower gross profit. Products operating loss margin was 3.6%, compared to Products operating loss margin of 4.0% in the same period last year, primarily due to lower operating expenses partially offset by lower gross profit as well.
The Company made investments of $769 compared to $2,327 in the same period last year which primarily related to information technology infrastructure, computer hardware and service vehicles.
Under our Products platform, we provide networking solutions through the sale of products for KVM switching, IT infrastructure, specialty networking and multimedia.
Total Revenues were $321,152, a decrease of 1% from $325,210 in the same period last year. Products Revenues were $64,388, a decrease of 8% from $70,136 in the same period last year, primarily due to decreases in both International Products and North American Products. Services Revenues were $256,764, an increase of 1% from $255,074 in the same period last year primarily due to growth in International Services partially offset by declines in North American Services.
Black Box is a leading digital solutions provider dedicated to helping customers design, build, manage and secure their IT infrastructure. The Company offers Services and Products that it distributes through two platforms that it has built over its 42-year history. Because the Offer has not yet launched or closed, we cannot be sure that the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement will be consummated, which could have a negative effect on the Company’s financial performance and stock price. The current market price of the Company’s common stock may reflect, among other things, the announcement and anticipated completion of the Offer and the Merger. The price of the Company’s common stock could decline if the Offer or the Merger are not consummated. The obligation of Merger Sub to purchase Shares tendered in the Offer is subject to customary closing conditions, including, among other things, that at the expiration of the Offer a simple majority of all of the then outstanding Shares be validly tendered and not withdrawn in accordance with the terms of the Offer (the “Minimum Condition”). If the conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement are not met or waived, the Offer may not close nor will the Merger be consummated. We cannot ensure that each of the conditions to the consummation of the Offer will be satisfied.