The total fair value of shares that vested during the three-months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 was $332 and $1,894, respectively.
The Company is involved in, or has pending, various legal proceedings, claims, suits and complaints arising out of the normal course of business. Based on the facts currently available to the Company, Management believes these matters are adequately provided for, covered by insurance, without merit or not probable that an unfavorable material outcome will result.
Company management is continuing to assess ways to align costs with revenues to improve profitability.
The accounting policies of the operating segments are the same as those of the Company. The Company allocates resources to its operating segments and evaluates the performance of the operating segments based upon operating income.
In the second quarter of Fiscal 2018, Management completed a plan to sell the Company's current headquarters' building and adjacent vacant land and move to another local facility that better aligns to the needs of the business. At that time, Management believed it was probable that the sale of the building and land would occur in the next twelve months. As of the third quarter of Fiscal 2018, Management believes that only the sale of certain parcels of the adjacent vacant land is probable to occur in the next twelve months. As of the first quarter of Fiscal 2019, Management continues to believe that only the sale of certain parcels of the adjacent vacant land is probable to occur in the next twelve months. These assets, all of which are Property, plant and equipment, are presented as "Assets held for sale" on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. These assets are reported under the North America Products operating segment.
Our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent on raising additional capital to repay our indebtedness when due and to fund our operations and ultimately on generating future profitable operations. As part of the Company’s review of its strategic alternatives, the Company agreed under the Second Amended Credit Agreement to pursue the sale of its Federal Business (as defined in Note 6). The Company entered into an executed purchase agreement with respect to the sale of the Federal Business on August 17, 2018 which is expected to close on or before August 31, 2018. The Company believes the expected net proceeds from the sale of the Federal Business will enable the Company to take further steps to generate additional liquidity, including entering into a transaction, selling additional assets or businesses, or obtaining alternative financing, as well as making changes to the overall cost structure of the business. We believe these plans, if successfully executed, may remediate the current liquidity concerns. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to raise sufficient additional capital through these plans, which have not yet been consummated outside of an executed purchase agreement with respect to the sale of the Federal Business, to repay all of our indebtedness under the Second Amended Credit Agreement.
The total fair value of shares that vested during the three-months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 was $0 and $0, respectively, as there were no payouts because certain performance obligations were not met.
Revenues recognized in the first quarter of Fiscal 2019 from performance obligations satisfied (or partially satisfied) in previous periods, as a result of changes in estimates under the cost-to-cost input method or otherwise, were not significant. Revenues related to remaining unsatisfied performance obligations from open contracts that have not yet been recognized through the first quarter of Fiscal 2019 are $302,397, $157,438 of which is expected to be recognized in the next six months.
The Company’s fiscal year ends on March 31. The fiscal quarters consist of 13 weeks and end on the Saturday generally nearest each calendar quarter end, adjusted to provide relatively equivalent business days for each fiscal quarter. The actual ending dates for the periods presented in these Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as of June 30, 2018 and 2017 were June 30, 2018 and July 1, 2017, respectively. References herein to "Fiscal Year" or "Fiscal" mean the Company’s fiscal year ended March 31 for the year referenced. All references to dollar amounts herein are presented in thousands, except per share amounts, unless otherwise noted.
Products revenues represent product-only networking solutions sold through our Products platform. The Company employs point in time revenue recognition to our Products revenues when control of these products transfer to our customers, which generally occurs upon shipment from the Company's location. Payments are due from customers after we satisfy these performance obligations. While it is our standard business practice to control products and services before these products and services are transferred to customers, and thus act as the principal in arrangements, there are certain arrangements in which the Company acts as an agent whereby revenues are recognized for the amounts into which we expect to be entitled to when our performance obligations as the agent are satisfied, which has historically been at a point in time. 
Accounts receivable increased $10,385 mainly due to the timing of revenues recognized in the quarter, primarily driven by our commercial services and federal businesses within North America Services. Costs in excess of billings decreased $5,350 as a result of as a result of changes related to customer projects in the North America commercial services business as well as due to the ASC 606 adjustment to best depict the Company's performance on projects under the cost-to-cost input method, as described above. Billings in excess of costs decreased $1,504 stemming from an increase in average collection days, primarily driven by the commercial and federal businesses in North America Services, partially offset by an increase due to the aforementioned ASC 606 adjustment. Deferred revenue, including the long-term portion which is included in Other liabilities within the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets, increased $1,358 as a result of deferral of revenues associated with certain extended warranties under ASC 606, partially offset by changes related to customer maintenance contracts in the North America commercial services business. During the three months ended June 30, 2018, the Company recognized revenues of $15,872 and $7,601 that was included in deferred revenue and billings in excess of costs at March 31, 2018, respectively.The Company made investments of $528 compared to $1,097 in the same period last year which primarily related to information technology infrastructure, computer hardware and service vehicles.
Total operating loss margin was 2.3%, compared to a total operating loss margin of 6.7% in the same period last year. Service operating loss margin was 1.7%, compared to Service operating loss margin of 4.8% in the same period last year, primarily due to favorable gross margin and favorable operating expense in the current period. Product operating loss margin was 5.3%, compared to Product operating loss margin of 15.9% in the same period last year, primarily due to favorable operating expense in the current period.
Under our Products platform, we provide networking solutions through the sale of products for KVM switching, IT infrastructure, specialty networking and multimedia.
Black Box is a leading digital solutions provider dedicated to helping customers design, build, manage and secure their IT infrastructure. The Company offers Services and Products that it distributes through two platforms that it has built over its 42-year history. 
Total revenues were $190,799, a decrease of 0.4% from $191,644 in the same period last year. Services revenues were $159,247, an increase of 0.3% from $158,756 in the same period last year primarily due to a decrease in our federal business's revenues offset by a realignment of several international entities between Products and Services as a result of changes in our management structure in the second quarter of Fiscal 2018. Products revenues were $31,552, a decrease of 4% from $32,888 in the same period last year primarily due to the aforementioned realignment of several international entities between Products and Services.
The following is a summary of our capitalization and liquidity position.
Net cash used for operating activities was $2,320, due primarily to Net loss of $7,322, inclusive of non-cash charges, and cash outflows of $11,425 for Accounts receivable, partially offset by cash inflows of $7,791 for Accounts payable, compared to net cash used for operating activities of $16,267 in the same period last year, due primarily to Net loss of $9,747, inclusive of non-cash charges, and cash outflows of $11,228 and $7,204 for All other liabilities and Accounts payable, respectively, partially offset by cash inflows of $15,238 for Accounts receivable. Changes in the above accounts are based on average Fiscal 2019 and Fiscal 2018 exchange rates, as applicable.