There has been no other significant or unusual activity during Fiscal 2018.
Company management is continuing to assess ways to align costs with revenue to improve profitability.
The accounting policies of the operating segments are the same as those of the Company. The Company allocates resources to its operating segments and evaluates the performance of the operating segments based upon operating income. 
The total fair value of shares that vested during the nine-months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 was $1,902 and $2,039, respectively.
In the second quarter of Fiscal 2018, Management completed a plan to sell the Company's current headquarters' building and adjacent vacant land and move to another local facility that better aligns to the needs of the business. At that time, Management believed it was probable that the sale of the building and land would occur in the next twelve months. As of the third quarter of Fiscal 2018, Management believes that only the sale of certain parcels of the adjacent vacant land is probable to occur in the next twelve months. These assets, all of which are Property, plant and equipment, are presented as "Assets held for sale" on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. These assets are reported under the North America Products operating segment.
There can be no assurance that the Company will generate sufficient adjusted EBITDA during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2018 or in fiscal quarters thereafter in order to avoid a breach of the Amended Credit Agreement. In addition, there can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in its efforts to limit the remedies of the lenders in the event of such default. As a result, the failure to maintain adequate liquidity or a default under our Amended Credit Agreement could have a material adverse effect on the Company.
In August 2017, we amended our senior credit agreement to avoid a default of our then existing leverage covenant. Our amended credit agreement contains covenants requiring us to achieve a certain minimum adjusted EBITDA during each quarter through the first quarter of Fiscal 2019. A leverage ratio and a fixed charge coverage ratio commence in the second quarter of Fiscal 2019 through maturity in May 2021. 
The Company’s fiscal year ends on March 31. The fiscal quarters consist of 13 weeks and end on the Saturday generally nearest each calendar quarter end, adjusted to provide relatively equivalent business days for each fiscal quarter. The actual ending dates for the periods presented in these Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 were December 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, respectively. References herein to "Fiscal Year" or "Fiscal" mean the Company’s fiscal year ended March 31 for the year referenced. All references to dollar amounts herein are presented in thousands, except per share amounts, unless otherwise noted.
Our Amended Credit Agreement contains covenants requiring us to achieve a certain minimum adjusted EBITDA during each quarter through the first quarter of Fiscal 2019. A leverage ratio and a fixed charge coverage ratio commence in the second quarter of Fiscal 2019 through maturity in May 2021. The covenants in our Amended Credit Agreement were determined based upon our then expectations of revenues and profitability. If we fail to achieve our expected revenues and profitability, we could fail to maintain compliance with the covenants in our Amended Credit Agreement. There can be no assurance that we will be able to remain in compliance with these or other covenants in our Amended Credit Agreement. Refer to the Liquidity and Capital Resources section of the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further information.
The Company conducts business globally and is managed on a geographic-service type basis consisting of four operating segments which are (i) North America Products, (ii) North America Services, (iii) International Products and (iv) International Services. These operating segments are also the Company's reporting units for purposes of testing goodwill for impairment and its reporting segments for financial reporting purposes. Revenues within our North America segments are primarily attributed to the United States while revenues within our International segments are attributed to countries in Europe, the Pacific Rim and Latin America. Under our Products platform, we provide networking solutions through the sale of products for KVM switching, IT infrastructure, specialty networking and multimedia.
The Company made investments of $3,618 compared to $6,141 in the same period last year which primarily related to information technology infrastructure, computer hardware and software and service vehicles.
Total Revenues were $194,873, a decrease of 7% from $210,370 in the same period last year. Service Revenues were $160,480, a decrease of 8% from $174,261 in the same period last year due to a decrease in commercial revenues partially offset by an increase in government revenues. The decrease in commercial revenues within North America was due to a decline in the legacy unified communication business, which we expect will continue for the foreseeable future, and a decrease in the infrastructure business, which was the result of a change in sales leadership and other transformational activities. Commercial revenues outside of North America increased primarily due to a realignment of several international entities between Products and Services as a result of changes in our management structure in the second quarter of Fiscal 2018. Government revenues increased due to market repositioning that was actioned over the past two years. Product Revenues were $34,393, a decrease of 5% from $36,109 in the same period last year primarily due to a decrease in North America Products' sales as a result of lower demand in the legacy run rate business and due to the aforementioned realignment of the international business between Products and Services. 
Company management continues to review initiatives to align costs with revenue to improve profitability.
commitments) was $40,530 at the end of the third quarter of Fiscal 2018, compared to $120,997 at the end of Fiscal 2017. This decrease in liquidity was driven by higher outstanding debt coupled with a lower borrowing capacity. Net debt (debt less cash and cash equivalents) was $124,405 at the end of the third quarter of Fiscal 2018, an increase of $48,906 from the end of Fiscal 2017 as a result of spending on our previously announced U.S.-based ERP project as well as increased working capital. The ERP project spending peaked in the third quarter as we expect declines in successive quarters. Additionally, the Company is emphasizing working capital initiatives in order to bring working capital levels in line with revenue and activity levels.
Total Revenues were $580,681, a decrease of 10% from $647,599 in the same period last year. Service Revenues were $476,152, a decrease of 10% from $529,346 in the same period last year primarily due to decreases in both unified communications and infrastructure business in North America, partially offset by an increase in government revenues due to market repositioning that was actioned over the past two years and an increase in commercial revenues outside of North America resulting from a realignment of several international entities between Products and Services as a result of changes in our management structure in the second quarter of Fiscal 2018. Product Revenues were $104,529, a decrease of 12% from $118,253 in the same period last year, primarily due to a decrease in North America Products' sales as a result of lower demand in the legacy run rate business and a decline in International Products which was negatively impacted by a large one time deal (Norway) in the prior year and an initiative to centralize back office and supply chain operations, as well as due to the aforementioned realignment of the international business between Products and Services. 
Total Gross profit margin was 27.9%, a decrease of 2% from 28.5% in the same period last year. The same period last year included Inventory impairment losses of $6,327 for Services and $2,810 for Products, which together impacted Total Gross profit margin by 1.4%. Service Gross profit margin was 24.9%, a decrease of 4% from 25.8% in the same period last year. The Inventory impairment loss for Services had a 1.2% impact to Service Gross profit margin. This decrease was primarily due to lower revenues on higher margin unified communication business and aggressive pricing on certain incremental infrastructure projects for our commercial clients and higher volume of successful contract awards that carry a lower gross margin for our government clients. Product Gross profit margin was 41.4%, an increase of 2% from 40.6% in the same period last year. The Inventory impairment loss for Products had a 2.4% impact to Product Gross profit margin.In August 2017, we amended our senior credit agreement to avoid a default of our then existing leverage covenant. Our amended credit agreement contains covenants requiring us to achieve a certain minimum adjusted EBITDA during each quarter through the first quarter of Fiscal 2019. A leverage ratio and a fixed charge coverage ratio commence in the second quarter of Fiscal 2019 through maturity in May 2021. 