ITEM 2.
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
The following "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations", as well as disclosures included elsewhere in this Report on Form 10-Q, include "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
This Act provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements to encourage companies to provide prospective information about themselves so long as they identify these statements as forward-looking and provide meaningful cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ from the projected results.
All statements other than statements of historical fact we make in this Report on Form 10-Q are forward-looking, which address a variety of subjects including, for example, future sales and operating results; growth or contraction, and trends in the industry and markets in which the company participates; the acquisition of, investment in, or collaboration with other entities, including the company’s acquisition of KMG Chemicals, Inc. (“KMG”), and the expected benefits and synergies of such acquisition; new product introductions; development of new products, technologies and markets; product performance; the financial conditions of the company's customers; competitive landscape; the company's supply chain; natural disasters; various economic or political factors and international or national events, including related to the enactment of trade sanctions, tariffs, or other similar matters; the generation, protection and acquisition of intellectual property, and litigation related to such intellectual property or third party intellectual property; environmental laws and regulations; the company's management; foreign exchange fluctuation; the company's current or future tax rate, including the effects of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "Tax Act") in the U.S.; cybersecurity threats; and financing facilities and related debt, pay off or payment of principal and interest, and compliance with covenants and other terms; uses and investment of the company's cash balance, including dividends and share repurchases, which may be suspended, terminated or modified at any time for any reason by the company, based on a variety of factors; the operation of facilities by Cabot Microelectronics.
Statements that are not historical facts, including statements about Cabot Microelectronics’ beliefs, plans and expectations, are forward-looking statements.
Such statements are based on current expectations of Cabot Microelectronics’ management and are subject to a number of factors and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements.
For information about factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements, please refer to Cabot Microelectronics’ filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), including the risk factors contained in Cabot Microelectronics’ Annual Report on Form 10-K and in this Report on Form 10-Q.
Except as required by law, Cabot Microelectronics undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements made by it to reflect new information, subsequent events or circumstances.
The section entitled "Risk Factors" describes some, but not all, of the factors that could cause these differences.
 FIRST QUARTER OF FISCAL 2019 OVERVIEW
INDEX
In the Electronic Materials segment, this quarter we delivered strong growth in both CMP slurries and pads, as well as in KMG’s legacy electronic chemicals business.
Some semiconductor industry analysts are predicting a weaker demand in the first half of the calendar year, with expectations for some strengthening in the second half of calendar 2019, which would indicate a return to a more traditional seasonal pattern for the industry.
Despite this potential for near term industry softness, we believe we remain well positioned for continued success due to the strength of our consumables-based business as well as our strong participation in the highest growth areas of the industry, particularly memory.
Within the memory sector we experienced continued strong demand for our products, particularly for memory applications.
This was driven in part by our memory customers’ migration from 2D to 3D NAND, which requires more CMP processing steps and significantly increases the need for consumables, including tungsten slurries.
In addition, we believe that new applications in areas such as the internet of things, autonomous driving, industrial automation, cloud and high-performance computing, virtual reality, and 5G should continue to drive demand for both memory and logic devices going forward.
In the Performance Materials segment, we also recorded strong revenue, driven by increased demand for our industry leading drag-reducing agents, or DRA’s.
We anticipate future growth for this business with the continued growth in oil production in U.S., primarily in the Permian basin.
However, there are many factors that make it difficult for us to predict future revenue trends for our Company, including those discussed in Part II, Item 1A entitled “Risk Factors” of this Report on Form 10-Q.
Revenue for our first quarter of fiscal 2019 was $221.8 million, which represented an increase of 58.4% from the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
Results benefited from the acquisition of KMG, which added $62.0 million to revenue in the approximately six weeks of the quarter post-closing, as well as a 10% increase in CMP slurries and 30% increase in CMP pads compared to the same quarter last year.
Net income was $13.4 million in our first quarter of fiscal 2019, which was $16.5 million higher than the net loss reported in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, which included a $32.9 million charge related to the Tax Act.
Acquisition-related expenses and a charge for the fair value write-up of acquired inventory sold negatively impacted net income this quarter by $32.5 million.
In addition, higher amortization and depreciation costs associated with purchase accounting adversely impacted net income in the current quarter.
Adjusted EBITDA was $76.9 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
This represents an increase of $33.5 million, or a 77% increase from the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
Adjusted EBITDA benefited from improved profitability in the Company’s legacy businesses and the addition of the KMG businesses.
Refer to the “Use of certain GAAP and Non-GAAP Financial Information” section below for the calculation of adjusted EBITDA.
Adjusted EBITDA margin, which represents adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of revenue, was 34.7% for the first quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to 31.0% for our first quarter of fiscal 2018.
We currently expect our adjusted EBITDA for full fiscal year 2019 to be between $325 million and $355 million.
The Company reported diluted earnings per share of $0.48 in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to diluted losses per share of $0.12 in the same quarter last year.
The increase was primarily due to the absence of the adverse impact of the Tax Act in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, the inclusion of KMG results, and higher revenue and profitability within the legacy businesses.
These items were partially offset by acquisition-related expenses and higher interest expenses resulting from the debt borrowing to finance the Acquisition.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES AND EFFECTS OF RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS
We discuss our critical accounting estimates and effects of recent accounting pronouncements in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in Item 7 of Part II of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018.
Except for the discussion on revenue recognition in Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of this Report on Form 10-Q, no material changes have been made to the Company’s significant accounting policies during the first three months of fiscal 2019.
See Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of this Report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of new accounting pronouncements.
INDEX
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
THREE MONTHS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2018, VERSUS THREE MONTHS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2017
REVENUE
Revenue was $221.8 million for the three months ended December 31, 2018, which represented a 58.4%, or $81.8 million increase from the three months ended December 31, 2017.
The increase in revenue was primarily due to the Acquisition adding $62.0 million in revenue for the approximately six weeks post-closing in the quarter.
Excluding revenue from KMG businesses, Cabot Microelectronics revenue increased $19.8 million, or 14.1%.
The increase was primarily driven by a $10.1 million increase due to higher sales volume and a $8.2 million increase due to higher value product mix.
The increase in sales volume was consistent with continued overall strong demand conditions in the global semiconductor industry.
COST OF SALES
Total cost of sales was $122.4 million for the three months ended December 31, 2018, which represented an increase of 85.6%, or $56.5 million, from the three months ended December 31, 2017.
The increase in cost of sales was primarily due to the Acquisition, adding approximately $52.2 million in cost of sales.
Excluding the impact of the KMG businesses, the remaining increase was primarily driven by higher sales volume.
GROSS MARGIN
Our gross margin was 44.8% for the three months ended December 31, 2018, compared to 52.9% for the three months ended December 31, 2017.
The decrease in gross margin was primarily due to the inclusion of the KMG businesses, which reduced gross margin by 1,113 basis points, of which 460 basis points was due to the impact of the fair value write-up of acquired inventory sold.
Excluding the KMG businesses, gross margin increased by 320 basis points, which was primarily due to higher sales volume and a higher value product mix.
RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT AND TECHNICAL
Total research, development and technical expenses were $14.0 million for the three months ended December 31, 2018, which represented an increase of 15.5%, or $1.9 million, from the three months ended December 31, 2017.
The increase was primarily due to higher supplies and equipment costs used in research and development of $0.9 million and higher staffing-related costs of $0.8 million.
  ●  Research related to fundamental CMP technology;
  ●  Development of new and enhanced CMP consumable products, including collaboration on joint development projects with technology-leading customers and suppliers;
  ●  Process development to support rapid and effective commercialization of new products;
  ●  Technical support of CMP products in our customers’ research, development and manufacturing facilities; and,
  ●  Development of polishing and metrology applications outside of the semiconductor industry.
SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE
Selling, general and administrative expenses were $61.1 million for the three months ended December 31, 2018, which represented an increase of 147.0%, or $36.4 million, from the three months ended December 31, 2017.
The increase was primarily due to $27.3 million of acquisition and integration related costs, $6.5 million of amortization expense related to the Acquisition, and the addition of $5.1 million in incremental KMG-related costs associated with the approximately six-week post Acquisition.
These items were partially offset by the absence of executive officer transition costs of $2.8 million that occurred in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
INDEX
INTEREST EXPENSE
Interest expense was $6.9 million for the three months ended December 31, 2018, which represented an increase of 508.7%, or $5.8 million for the three months ended December 31, 2017.
The increase resulted from the debt borrowed to finance the Acquisition.
INTEREST INCOME
Interest income was $1.0 million for the three months ended December 31, 2018, which was relatively flat compared to the interest income for the three months ended December 31, 2017.
OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE), NET
Other expense was $1.4 million for the three months ended December 31, 2018, which represented an increase of 405.7%, or $1.1 million, from $0.3 million for the three months ended December 31, 2017.
The increase was primarily due to higher foreign exchange losses recorded for the three months ended December 31, 2018.
PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES
The Company’s effective tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was 20.4%, compared to 108.4% in the same quarter last year.
The significant decrease is primarily attributable to the changes introduced by the Tax Act enacted in December 2017.
As a result of the Tax Act, we recorded unfavorable discrete adjustments in fiscal 2018 which include the Transition Tax.
Excluding the Tax Act discrete adjustments recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, the effective tax rate would have been 18.7% for that quarter.
Comparing the adjusted first quarter fiscal 2018 rate to the fiscal 2019 rate for the same period, the increase in the effective tax rate was primarily driven by unfavorable tax treatment of certain KMG acquisition related costs, such as compensation deduction limitations, as well as non-deductibility of certain professional fees.
Partially offsetting these adverse items, the Tax Act reduced the corporate income tax rate to 21% effective January 1, 2018, resulting in a change in our blended tax rate of 24.5% in fiscal 2018 to 21% beginning with our fiscal 2019.
See Note 15 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of this Report on Form 10-Q for more information on our income taxes.
NET INCOME (LOSS)
 Net income was $13.4 million for the three months ended December 31, 2018, which represented an increase of 536.0%, or $16.5 million, from the net loss reported in the three months ended December 31, 2017.
The increase was primarily due to the absence of the adverse impact of the Tax Act in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, the addition of the KMG business for the approximately six weeks post-closing in the quarter, and higher revenue and profitability within our legacy business.
These items were partially offset by acquisition and integration-related expenses, a charge for fair value write-up of acquired inventory sold, as well as increased amortization and depreciation associated with re-valuing KMG assets to fair value.
INDEX
SEGMENT ANALYSIS
 Segment data is presented for our two reportable segments for the three months ended December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017.
The segment data should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this report.
In the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2018, our management, including the chief executive officer, who is the chief operating decision maker, determined that our operations should be reported as the Electronic Materials segment and the Performance Materials segment, as discussed in Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements included in this report.
INDEX
ELECTRONIC MATERIALS
The $57.3 million increase in Electronic Materials revenue was driven by the addition of $39.8 million related to KMG’s electronic chemicals business since the Acquisition.
The remaining $17.5 million increase was driven by strong organic demand for the Company’s legacy CMP slurries and polishing pads product lines, which increased 10% and 30%, respectively, primarily on higher sales volume.
Electronic Materials adjusted EBITDA increased from the prior year driven by the addition of approximately six-weeks of KMG’s electronic chemicals results, as well as stronger organic profitability, driven by the leverage achieved on higher sales volume.
The slightly lower adjusted EBITDA margin was primarily due to change in mix of products, as a result of the Acquisition.
PERFORMANCE MATERIALS
The $24.5 million increase in Performance Materials revenue was primarily driven by the addition of $22.2 million related to KMG’s performance materials business for the approximately six-week period post-Acquisition.
Performance Materials’ adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA margin expanded from the prior year due to the addition of KMG’s legacy performance materials business.
USE OF CERTAIN GAAP AND NON-GAAP FINANCIAL INFORMATION
Adjusted EBITDA margin is defined as adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of revenue.
Adjusted EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization, adjusted for certain items that affect comparability from period to period.
These adjustments include items related to our acquisition of KMG, such as expenses incurred to complete the acquisition, integration related expenses, and impact of fair value adjustments to inventory acquired from KMG.
The non-GAAP financial information provided is a supplement to, and not a substitute for, the Company’s financial results presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP.
Management strongly encourages investors to review the Company’s consolidated financial statements in their entirety and to not rely on any single financial measure.
These non-GAAP financial measures are provided to enhance the investor's understanding about the Company's ongoing operations.
Specifically, the Company believes the impact of KMG acquisition-related expenses and acquisition-related amortization expenses are not indicative of its core operating results, and thus presents these certain metrics excluding these effects.
The presentation of non-GAAP financial information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared and presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP.
A reconciliation table of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures is contained below.
Adjusted EBITDA for the Electronic Materials and Performance Materials segments is presented in conformity with Accounting Standards Codification Topic 280, Segment Reporting.
This measure is reported to the chief operating decision maker for purposes of making decisions about allocating resources to the segments and assessing their performance.
For these reasons, this measure is excluded from the definition of non-GAAP financial measures under the SEC Regulation G and Item 10(e) of Regulation S-K.
INDEX
RECONCILIATION OF NET INCOME (LOSS) TO ADJUSTED EBITDA
The table below presents the reconciliation of net income (loss) to adjusted EBITDA.
Adjusted EBITDA is not a measurement of our financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to net income.
Adjusted EBITDA may have limitations as an analytical tool and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under GAAP.
INDEX
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
We generated $13.7 million in cash flows from operating activities in the first three months of fiscal 2019, compared to $30.6 million in cash from operating activities in the first three months of fiscal 2018.
The decrease in operating cash flows was primarily due to $24.7 million spent on acquisition and integration costs, net of tax, and an increase in working capital associated with operating a larger business.
In the first three months of fiscal 2019, cash flows used in investing activities were $1,190 million, compared to $52 million in cash used in investing activities in the first three months of fiscal 2018.
The increase was driven by the use of $1,182 million for the Acquisition.
The remainder of the purchase price was satisfied with the issuance of common stock.
Capital expenditures in the current quarter were $7.8 million, compared to $4.2 million in the prior year.
For fiscal 2019, we expect our total capital expenditures to be within the range of $60 million to $70 million.
In the first three months of fiscal 2019, cash flows provided by financing activities were $1,032 million, compared to $7 million used in financing activities in the three months ended December 31, 2018.
During the quarter we received $1,044 million in debt proceeds, net of $21 million in debt issuance costs, which was used for the Acquisition.
In addition, our dividend payments increased by $5 million versus the prior year, driven by the doubling of our quarterly dividend, as announced in March 2018.
On the Acquisition Date, we entered into a credit agreement by and among the Company, the lenders party thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent (the “Credit Agreement”), which provides for senior secured financing of up to $1,265.0 million, consisting of a term loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of $1,065.0 million (the “Term Loan Facility”) and a revolving credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of up to $200.0 million, including a letter of credit sub-facility of up to $50.0 million (the “Revolving Credit Facility”).
The Term Loan Facility and the Revolving Credit Facility are referred to as the “Credit Facilities.” The Company may generally prepay outstanding loans under the Credit Facilities at any time, without prepayment premium or penalty, subject to customary “breakage” costs with respect to LIBOR rate loans.
Prepayments of the Term Loan Facility in connection with certain “repricing events” resulting in a lower yield occurring at any time during the first six months after the Acquisition Date must be accompanied by a 1.00% prepayment premium.
The Revolving Credit Facility requires that the Company maintain a maximum first lien secured net leverage ratio, as defined in the Credit Agreement, of 4.00 to 1.00 as of the last day of each fiscal quarter if any revolving loans are outstanding, commencing with the first full fiscal quarter after the Acquisition Date.
Additionally, the Credit Agreement contains certain affirmative and negative covenants that limit the ability of the Company, among other things and subject to certain significant exceptions, to incur debt or liens, make investments, enter into certain mergers, consolidations, asset sales and acquisitions, pay dividends and make other restricted payments and enter into transactions with affiliates.
The Credit Agreement also contains customary affirmative covenants and events of default.
We believe we are in compliance with these covenants.
Subsequent to the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we entered into a floating-to-fixed interest rate swap agreement to hedge the variability in our LIBOR-based interest payments on approximately 70% of our Team Loan balance.
See Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of this Report on Form 10-Q for additional information regarding the Credit Agreement.
In January 2016, our Board of Directors authorized an increase in the amount available under our share repurchase program from the previously remaining $75.0 million to $150.0 million.
As of December 31, 2018, $81.3 million remained available under our share repurchase program.
Share repurchases are made from time to time, depending on market and other conditions.
The timing, manner, price and amounts of repurchases are determined at the Company's discretion, and the share repurchase program may be suspended, terminated or modified at any time for any reason.
The repurchase program does not obligate the Company to acquire any specific number of shares.
Repurchases are subject to SEC regulations as well as certain conditions specified in the plan.
Our Board of Directors authorized the initiation of our regular quarterly cash dividend program in January 2016, and since that time has increased the dividend twice, to its current quarterly level of $0.40 per share.
The declaration and payment of future dividends is subject to the discretion and determination of the Board of Directors and management, based on a variety of factors, and the program may be suspended, terminated or modified at any time for any reason.
As of December 31, 2018, we had $208.9 million of cash and cash equivalents, $112.7 million of which was held in foreign subsidiaries.
See Part II, Item 1A entitled “Risk Factors” of this Report on Form 10-Q for additional discussion of our foreign operations.
We believe that our current balance of cash, cash generated by our operations, cash repatriation to the United States, and available borrowing capacity under our Credit Facilities will be sufficient to fund our operations, expected capital expenditures, dividend payments, and share repurchases for at least the next twelve months.
However, in pursuit of corporate development or other initiatives, we may need to raise additional funds in the future through equity or debt financing, or other arrangements.
Depending on future conditions in the capital and credit markets, we could encounter difficulty securing additional financing in the type or amount necessary to pursue these objectives.
INDEX
OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS
At December 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018, we did not have any unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which might have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements.
INDEX
TABULAR DISCLOSURE OF CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS
The following summarizes our contractual obligations at December 31, 2018, and the effect such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods.
We have been operating under a multi-year supply agreement with Cabot Corporation, which is not a related party and has not been one since 2002, for the purchase of fumed silica, the current term of which runs through December 31, 2019.
Purchase obligations include an aggregate amount of $17.2 million of contractual commitments related to our Cabot Corporation supply agreement for fumed silica.
Interest payments on long-term debt reflect interest rates in effect at December 31, 2018.
The interest payments reflect variable LIBOR-based rates currently in effect on $1,065 million of our outstanding debt.
Commitment fees are based on our estimated consolidated leverage ratio in future periods.
See Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form 10-Q for additional information regarding our long-term debt.
Refer to Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of Part II of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018, for additional information regarding our contractual obligations.
INDEX
ITEM 2.
UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS
ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES
In January 2016, our Board of Directors authorized an increase in the amount available under our share repurchase program to $150.0 million.
We did not repurchase any shares under this program during the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
As of December 31, 2018, $81.3 million remained outstanding under our share repurchase program.
The manner in which the Company repurchases its shares is discussed in Part I, Item 2, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, under the heading “Liquidity and Capital Resources”, of this Report on Form 10-Q.
To date, we have funded share purchases under our share repurchase program from our available cash balance, and anticipate we will continue to do so.
