ITEM 3.
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
EFFECT OF FOREIGN CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES AND EXCHANGE RATE RISK MANAGEMENT
We conduct business operations outside of the United States through our foreign operations.
Some of our foreign operations maintain their accounting records in their local currencies.
Consequently, period to period comparability of results of operations is affected by fluctuations in exchange rates.
The primary currencies to which we have exposure are the Korean won, Japanese yen, and the New Taiwan dollar.
Approximately 25% of our revenue is transacted in currencies other than the U.S. dollar.
However, we also incur expenses in foreign countries that are transacted in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, which mitigates the exposure on the Consolidated Statements of Income.
We periodically enter into forward contracts in an effort to manage foreign currency exchange exposure on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
However, we are unlikely to be able to hedge these exposures completely.
We do not enter into forward contracts or other derivative instruments for speculative or trading purposes.
Fluctuations of the won, yen, and New Taiwan dollar have not had a material impact on our Consolidated Statements of Income for the six months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017; however, fluctuations of the won and yen during such time have had a significant impact on other comprehensive income on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
During the six months ended March 31, 2018, we recorded $11.1 million in foreign currency translation gains, net of tax, that are included in other comprehensive income.
During six months ended March 31, 2017, we recorded $3.7 million in foreign currency translation losses, net of tax, that are included in other comprehensive income.
These gains and losses primarily relate to changes in the U.S. dollar value of assets and liabilities denominated in local currencies when these asset and liability amounts are translated at month-end exchange rates.
In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, we entered into forward foreign exchange contracts in an effort to protect our net investment in a foreign operation against potential adverse changes resulting from foreign currency fluctuation.
This transaction is designated as a net investment hedge and is accounted for under hedge accounting.
In the six months ended March 31, 2018, we recorded $5.8 million in gross currency translation losses related to this hedge, which are included in other comprehensive income noted above.
MARKET RISK AND SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS RELATED TO FOREIGN EXCHANGE RATE RISK
We have performed a sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 10% additional adverse movement in foreign exchange rates.
As of March 31, 2018, the analysis demonstrated that such market movements would not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows over a one-year period.
Actual gains and losses in the future may differ materially from this analysis based on changes in the timing and amount of foreign currency rate movements and our actual exposures.
INTEREST RATE RISK
At March 31, 2018, we had $137.8 million in debt outstanding on our Term Loan.
In fiscal 2015, we entered into interest rate swap agreements to hedge the variability in LIBOR-based interest rate payments on half of our outstanding debt.
The notional amount of the swaps decreases each quarter by an amount in proportion to our scheduled quarterly principal repayment to maintain a fixed rate of interest on half of our outstanding debt.
As of March 31, 2018 the fair value of this cash flow hedge was $0.5 million.
At March 31, 2018, we had $68.9 million of outstanding debt at a variable rate of interest.
Assuming a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in our current variable interest rate, our interest expense would increase by approximately $0.2 million per quarter.
However, in April 2018, we paid off the Term Loan and will no longer incur related interest expense.
MARKET RISK RELATED TO INVESTMENTS IN AUCTION RATE SECURITIES
At March 31, 2018, we owned two auction rate securities (ARS) with a total estimated fair value $5.0 million and par value of $5.3 million, which were classified as other long-term assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Beginning in 2008, general uncertainties in the global credit markets significantly reduced liquidity in the ARS market, and this illiquidity continues.
For more information on our ARS, see Note 6 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of this Report on Form 10-Q.
INDEX
ITEM 3.
DEFAULTS UPON SENIOR SECURITIES
Not applicable.
