fls.txt
In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of terminology such as “may,” “will,” “expects,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “believes,” “estimates,” “potential,” or “continue,” or the negative thereof or other comparable terminology.


item1.txt
The performance and simplicity of our advanced, comprehensive solutions offer unprecedented levels of functionality, reliability and scalability.
These accompanying interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared by the Company pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and are not audited.
The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements contain all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring accruals, necessary for a fair presentation of our financial position as of June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the results of operations for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, and the cash flows for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017.
Accordingly, each quarter-end deferral of revenue and associated cost of goods sold were calculated and recorded based upon the actual channel inventory reported at quarter-end.
Further, with respect to distributors and other channel partners not reporting the channel inventory, the revenue and associated cost of goods sold were deferred until we received payment for the product sales made to such distributors or channel partners.
During the three months ended June 30, 2018, revenue increased by $271 and during the six months ended June 30, 2018 revenue decreased by $581 due to the impact of the adoption of the New Revenue Standard.
Sales agreements with customers are renewable periodically and contain terms and conditions with respect to payment, delivery, warranty and supply, but typically do not require mandatory purchase commitments.
In the absence of a sales agreement, the Company’s standard terms and conditions at the time of acceptance of purchase orders apply.
The Company considers the customer purchase orders, governed by sales agreements or the Company’s standard terms and conditions, to be the contract with the customer.
In determining the transaction price, the Company evaluates whether the price is subject to refund or adjustment to determine the net consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled.
Although payment terms vary, most distributor agreements require payment within 45 days of invoicing.
Revenue recognized during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 for equipment sales was $6,803 and $13,900, respectively, and for software, licenses, etc.
Frequently, the Company receives orders with multiple delivery dates that may extend across reporting periods.


item2.txt
This report on Form 10-Q includes “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).
All subsequent forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements.
The performance and simplicity of our advanced, comprehensive solutions offer unprecedented levels of functionality, reliability and scalability.
We derive most of our revenue from professional audio conferencing products by promoting our products in the professional audio-visual channel.
We have extended our total addressable market from installed audio conferencing market to adjacent complementary markets – microphones, video collaboration and networked audio and video streaming.
We also introduced new video solutions including economical new SKUs to our VIEW® AV Networking platform and a second-generation video cloud solution, COLLABORATE® Space.
During the six months ended June 30, 2018 seven more patents related to video synchronization, speech technology, integrated microphone array and ceiling or wall tile, echo cancellation with beamforming microphone array, audio distribution over local area networks, and USB to Bluetooth audio bridging were issued to us.
While focusing on strategic innovation that we believe will strengthen our competitive position, and accelerated product development, we have also planned and initiated a company-wide cost cutting programs.
Overall revenue declined in the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 when compared to the three months and six months ended June 30, 2017, with declines seen in all product categories.
We operate in a very dynamic and highly competitive industry which is dominated on the one hand by a few players with respect to certain products like traditional video conferencing appliances while on the other influenced heavily by a fragmented reseller market consisting of numerous regional and local players.
The industry is also characterized by the influx of venture capitalist funded start-ups and private companies keen to win market share even at the expense of mounting financial losses.
The adoption of Beamforming Microphone Array 2, along with Converge Pro 2, our new platform for professional audio conferencing, remains challenged in large part because of our competitors’ product offering that directly infringes our strategic patents.
During 2018, revenue from our video products has generally shown lesser decline than revenue from audio conferencing products.


item4.txt
An evaluation of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Exchange Act) as of June 30, 2018 was performed under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and our Principal Financial and Accounting Officer.
To address the material weakness, management is working with our third party internal controls consultant to assist with the implementation of a remediation plan which will supplement the existing controls.


