fls.txt
In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of terminology such as “may,” “will,” “expects,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “believes,” “estimates,” “potential,” or “continue,” or the negative thereof or other comparable terminology.


item1.txt
ClearOne, Inc., together with its subsidiaries (collectively, “ClearOne” or the “Company”), is a global market leader enabling conferencing, collaboration, and AV streaming solutions for voice and visual communications.
The performance and simplicity of our advanced, comprehensive solutions offer unprecedented levels of functionality, reliability and scalability.
These interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 filed with the SEC.
The significant accounting policies were described in Note 1 to the audited consolidated financial statements included in the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
ROU assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and operating lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments.
Our lease terms may include options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise that option.
Under the available practical expedient, we account for the lease and non-lease components as a single lease component.
Net loss incurred on valuation of inventory at lower of cost or market value and write-off of obsolete inventory during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 was $185 and $255, respectively.
Rent expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease taking into account future rent escalation and holiday periods.


item2.txt
This report on Form 10-Q includes “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).
All subsequent forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements.
ClearOne is a global Company that designs, develops and sells conferencing, collaboration, and AV networking solutions for voice and visual communications.
We have extended our total addressable market from the installed audio conferencing market to adjacent complementary markets – microphones, video collaboration and AV networking.
It’s a suite that unifies messaging, calls and meetings and will energize workflows and increase productivity for everyone involved in the enterprise.
Designed as a persistent, user-friendly collaboration suite, COLLABORATE Space contains many powerful UCC capabilities, as well as the seamless ability to make calls outside the network.
Users can meet immediately or schedule a meeting and access a full suite of collaboration features, including file sharing, whiteboarding, annotation, chat, and meeting minutes.
Overall revenue declined in the first quarter of 2019 when compared to the first quarter of 2018, with declines seen in all product categories except video.
We believe the on-going infringement of ClearOne’s patents is the major cause of our revenue decline in the audio conferencing and microphones categories.
The increase in net loss in 2019 was primarily due to reduced gross profit and reduced tax benefit partially offset by reduction in operating expenses.
We operate in a very dynamic and highly competitive industry which is dominated on the one hand by a few players with respect to certain products like traditional video conferencing appliances while on the other influenced heavily by a fragmented reseller market consisting of numerous regional and local players.
The industry is also characterized by venture capitalist funded start-ups and private companies willing to fund cumulative cash losses in order to gain market share and achieve certain non-financial goals.
Our installed professional audio conferencing products, which is our flagship product category, continue to be ahead of the competition despite the reduction in revenues.
Our strength in this space is largely due to our fully integrated suite of products consisting of DSP mixers, wide range of professional microphone products and video collaboration products.
We expect our strategy of combining Spontania, our cloud-based video conferencing product, Collaborate, our appliance-based media collaboration product, our high-quality professional cameras, and our high-end audio conferencing technology will generate high growth in the near future.


item4.txt
An evaluation of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Exchange Act) as of March 31, 2019 was performed under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and our Principal Financial and Accounting Officer.
To address the material weakness, management is working with our third party internal controls consultant to assist with the implementation of a remediation plan which will supplement the existing controls.


