The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements of Comtech Telecommunications Corp. and its subsidiaries ("Comtech," "we," "us," or "our") as of and for the three and six months ended January 31, 2018 and 2017 are unaudited.
In the opinion of management, the information furnished reflects all material adjustments (which include normal recurring adjustments) necessary for a fair presentation of the results for the unaudited interim periods.
The fair value of the non-current portion of our Secured Credit Facility as of January 31, 2018 approximates its carrying amount due to its variable interest rate and pricing grid that is dependent upon our leverage ratio as of the end of each fiscal quarter.
We believe the fair value of our non-current portion of capital lease obligations, which currently has a blended interest rate of 5.9%, would not be materially different than its carrying value as of January 31, 2018.
When calculating our diluted earnings per share, we consider the amount an employee must pay upon assumed exercise of stock-based awards and the amount of stock-based compensation cost attributed to future services and not yet recognized.
As a result of our adoption of ASU 2016-09, the amount of excess tax benefits assuming exercise of in-the-money stock-based awards is no longer included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share on a prospective basis and the denominator for our diluted calculations could increase in the future as compared to prior calculations.We believe this segment is a leading provider of command and control applications (such as the design, installation and operation of data networks that integrate computing and communications (including both satellite and terrestrial links)), ongoing network operation and management support services (including telecom expense management, project management and fielding and maintenance solutions related to satellite ground terminals), troposcatter communications (such as digital troposcatter multiplexers, digital over-the-horizon modems, troposcatter systems, and frequency converter systems) and RF power and switching technologies (such as solid state high-power broadband amplifiers, enhanced position location reporting system (commonly known as "EPLRS") amplifier assemblies, identification friend or foe amplifiers, and amplifiers used in the counteraction of improvised explosive devices).
A large portion of our revenue from advanced communication solutions is derived from contracts relating to the design, development or manufacture of complex electronic equipment to a buyer’s specification or to provide services relating to the performance of such contracts and is recognized in accordance with FASB ASC 605-35.
Due to the nature of some of the agreements it may be difficult to establish VSOE of separate elements of an agreement; in these circumstances the appropriate recognition of revenue may require the use of judgment based on the particular facts and circumstances.
On August 1, 2017 (the first day of our fiscal 2018), we performed our annual quantitative assessment using market participant assumptions to determine if the fair value of each of our reporting units with goodwill exceeded its carrying value.
In performing the quantitative assessment, we estimated the fair value of each of our reporting units using a combination of the income and market approaches.
Based on our quantitative evaluation, we determined that our Commercial Solutions and Government Solutions reporting units had estimated fair values in excess of their carrying values of at least 17.8% and 52.9%, respectively, and concluded that our goodwill was not impaired and that neither of our two reporting units was at risk of failing the quantitative assessment.
A portion of our deferred tax assets consist of federal net operating losses and federal research and experimentation tax credit carryforwards, most of which was acquired in connection with our acquisition of TCS.
In connection with Tax Reform, during the three months ended January 31, 2018, we recorded an estimated net discrete tax benefit of $14.0 million, primarily related to the remeasurement of deferred tax liabilities associated with non-deductible amortization related to intangible assets.
Because of our strong cash position and the nominal amount of interest we are earning on our cash and cash equivalents, we have, on a limited basis, approved certain customer requests.
We believe that we can achieve fiscal 2018 revenue and Adjusted EBITDA growth of approximately 5.0% as compared to fiscal 2017, and Adjusted EBITDA, as a percentage of consolidated fiscal 2018 net sales, comparable to the 12.8% we achieved in fiscal 2017.
In line with our original Business Outlook for Fiscal 2018, our fourth quarter of fiscal 2018 is expected to be the peak quarter - by far - for consolidated net sales, GAAP operating income and Adjusted EBITDA.
We currently believe that our third quarter consolidated net sales and Adjusted EBITDA will be approximately 10.0% higher than the related amounts we achieved in the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
GAAP operating income and Adjusted EBITDA, as a percentage of consolidated third quarter fiscal 2018 net sales, are expected to approximate 4.0% and 11.0%, respectively, with significant increases in each metric in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018.