The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements of Comtech Telecommunications Corp. and its subsidiaries ("Comtech," "we," "us," or "our") as of and for the three and nine months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017 are unaudited.
In the opinion of management, the information furnished reflects all material adjustments (which include normal recurring adjustments) necessary for a fair presentation of the results for the unaudited interim periods.
An entity would not be required to account for changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award as a modification if there were no changes to the award’s fair value, vesting conditions and classification.
The fair value of the non-current portion of our Secured Credit Facility as of April 30, 2018 approximates its carrying amount due to its variable interest rate and pricing grid that is dependent upon our leverage ratio as of the end of each fiscal quarter.
When calculating our diluted earnings per share, we consider the amount an employee must pay upon assumed exercise of stock-based awards and the amount of stock-based compensation cost attributed to future services and not yet recognized.
As a result of our adoption of ASU 2016-09, the amount of excess tax benefits assuming exercise of in-the-money stock-based awards is no longer included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share on a prospective basis and the denominator for our diluted calculations could increase in the future as compared to prior calculations.We believe this segment is a leading provider of command and control applications (such as the design, installation and operation of data networks that integrate computing and communications (including both satellite and terrestrial links)), ongoing network operation and management support services (including telecom expense management, project management and fielding and maintenance solutions related to satellite ground terminals), troposcatter communications (such as digital troposcatter multiplexers, digital over-the-horizon modems, troposcatter systems, and frequency converter systems) and RF power and switching technologies (such as solid state high-power broadband amplifiers, enhanced position location reporting system (commonly known as "EPLRS") amplifier assemblies, identification friend or foe amplifiers, and amplifiers used in the counteraction of improvised explosive devices).
A large portion of our revenue from advanced communication solutions is derived from contracts relating to the design, development or manufacture of complex electronic equipment to a buyer’s specification or to provide services relating to the performance of such contracts and is recognized in accordance with FASB ASC 605-35.
Due to the nature of some of the agreements it may be difficult to establish VSOE of separate elements of an agreement; in these circumstances the appropriate recognition of revenue may require the use of judgment based on the particular facts and circumstances.
On August 1, 2017 (the first day of our fiscal 2018), we performed our annual quantitative assessment using market participant assumptions to determine if the fair value of each of our reporting units with goodwill exceeded its carrying value.
In performing the quantitative assessment, we estimated the fair value of each of our reporting units using a combination of the income and market approaches.
Based on our quantitative evaluation, we determined that our Commercial Solutions and Government Solutions reporting units had estimated fair values in excess of their carrying values of at least 17.8% and 52.9%, respectively, and concluded that our goodwill was not impaired and that neither of our two reporting units was at risk of failing the quantitative assessment.
A portion of our deferred tax assets consist of federal net operating losses and federal research and experimentation tax credit carryforwards, most of which was acquired in connection with our acquisition of TCS.
During the nine months ended April 30, 2018, we recorded an estimated net discrete tax benefit of $14.1 million which, as a result of Tax Reform, primarily related to the remeasurement of deferred tax liabilities associated with non-deductible amortization related to intangible assets.
During the three months ended April 30, 2018, our Commercial Solutions segment received a large strategic multi-year contract award from the U.S. Navy's Space and Naval Warfare Systems Command in the amount of $59.0 million to purchase our SLM-5650B satellite modems, upgrade kits and related services.
Excluding a number of favorable adjustments throughout fiscal 2017, which aggregated $18.8 million and which are more fully discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2017, as filed with the SEC, fiscal 2018 is also expected to be a year of operating income growth.
•consolidated operating income, as a percentage of net sales, of approximately 5.2% which compares favorably with the 3.3% of consolidated net sales we achieved in fiscal 2017 (excluding the $18.8 million of favorable adjustments that are more fully discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2017, as filed with the SEC); •Adjusted EBITDA, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, of close to 13.0%.
From a timing perspective, our fourth quarter of fiscal 2018 is still expected to be the peak quarter for both consolidated net sales and Adjusted EBITDA but our third quarter of fiscal 2018 is now expected to be the peak quarter of consolidated operating income.
As discussed above, our operating income for the third quarter reflects the benefit of shipments of satellite earth station equipment to the U.S. Navy that were previously expected to occur in our fourth quarter of fiscal 2018.