Our fiscal year and fiscal fourth quarter both end on December 31. Our fiscal first quarter ends on the Sunday falling closest to 91 days after December 31, which was April 1, 2018, the 91st day of our fiscal year 2018. Our fiscal second and third quarters each have 91 days. The six months ended July 1, 2018 and July 2, 2017 included 182 and 183 days, respectively. 
We may be unable to achieve our goals related to growth. 
Of the total severance, restructuring, and acquisition integration costs recognized in the three months ended July 1, 2018, $7.2 million, $14.5 million, and $3.2 million were included in cost of sales; selling, general and administrative expenses; and research and development, respectively. Of the total severance, restructuring, and acquisition integration costs recognized in the three months ended July 2, 2017, $8.2 million and $1.4 million were included in cost of sales and selling, general and administrative expenses, respectively.
We are a signal transmission solutions provider built around two global business platforms – Enterprise Solutions and Industrial Solutions. Our comprehensive portfolio of signal transmission solutions provides industry leading secure and reliable transmission of data, sound, and video for mission critical applications.
Of the total severance, restructuring, and acquisition integration costs recognized in the six months ended July 1, 2018, $16.6 million, $23.9 million, and $4.8 million were included in cost of sales; selling, general and administrative expenses; and research and development, respectively. Of the total severance, restructuring, and acquisition integration costs recognized in the six months ended July 2, 2017, $14.1 million and $2.1 million were included in cost of sales and selling, general and administrative expenses, respectively.
In order to meet the goals in our strategic plan, we must complete further acquisitions. The extent to which appropriate acquisitions are made will affect our overall growth, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows. Our ability to acquire businesses successfully will decline if we are unable to identify appropriate acquisition targets consistent with our strategic plan, the competition among potential buyers increases, the cost of acquiring suitable businesses becomes too expensive, or we lack sufficient sources of capital. As a result, we may be unable to make acquisitions or be forced to pay more or agree to less advantageous acquisition terms for the companies that we are able to acquire.
We recognized amortization expense related to our intangible assets of $25.5 million and $50.2 million in the three and six months ended July 1, 2018, respectively. We recognized amortization expense related to our intangible assets of $27.1 million and $50.8 million in the three and six months ended July 2, 2017, respectively. 
In order to meet the goals in our strategic plan, we must grow our business, both organically and through acquisitions. Our goal is to generate total revenue growth of 5-7% per year in constant currency. We may be unable to achieve this desired growth due to a failure to identify growth opportunities, such as trends and technological changes in our end markets. We may ineffectively execute our Market Delivery System (“MDS”), which is designed to identify and capture growth opportunities. The broadcast, enterprise, and industrial end markets we serve may not experience the growth we expect. Further, those markets may be unable to sustain growth on a long-term basis, particularly in emerging markets. If we are unable to achieve our goals related to growth, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows.
Effective January 1, 2018, we changed our organizational structure and, as a result, now are reporting two segments. The segments formerly known as Broadcast Solutions and Enterprise Solutions now are presented as the Enterprise Solutions segment, and the segments formerly known as Industrial Solutions and Network Solutions now are presented as the Industrial Solutions segment. The reorganization allows us to further accelerate progress in key strategic areas, and the segment consolidation properly aligns our external reporting with the way the businesses are now managed. We have recast the prior period segment information to conform to the change in the composition of these reportable segments. 
We must complete further acquisitions in order to achieve our strategic plan.
We may be unable to achieve our strategic priorities in emerging markets.Operating income decreased $6.3 million and $13.7 million, respectively, in the three and six months ended July 1, 2018 from the comparable periods of 2017 primarily due to the increases in selling, general and administrative expenses and research and development, partially offset by the increase in gross profit and decrease in amortization expense discussed above. 
in selling, general and administrative expenses year-over-year. These increases were partially offset by $6.5 million and $15.8 million, respectively, from improved productivity, and $1.0 million and $2.1 million, respectively, from the MCS divestiture in the fourth quarter of 2017.
Research and development expenses increased $2.1 million and $4.6 million, respectively, in the three and six months ended July 1, 2018 from the comparable periods of 2017. Acquisitions contributed $4.4 million and $8.8 million, respectively; increases in severance, restructuring, and acquisition integration costs contributed $3.2 million and $4.8 million, respectively; and currency translation contributed $0.7 million and $1.8 million, respectively, to the increase in research and development expenses. These increases were partially offset by $5.7 million and $9.6 million, respectively, from improved productivity and $0.5 million and $1.2 million, respectively, from the MCS divestiture in the fourth quarter of 2017. We may be unable to achieve our goals related to growth. 
The global markets in which we operate are highly competitive.
In order to meet the goals in our strategic plan, we must complete further acquisitions. The extent to which appropriate acquisitions are made will affect our overall growth, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows. Our ability to acquire businesses successfully will decline if we are unable to identify appropriate acquisition targets consistent with our strategic plan, the competition among potential buyers increases, the cost of acquiring suitable businesses becomes too expensive, or we lack sufficient sources of capital. As a result, we may be unable to make acquisitions or be forced to pay more or agree to less advantageous acquisition terms for the companies that we are able to acquire.
The relative costs and merits of our solutions could change in the future as various competing technologies address the market opportunities. We believe that our future success will depend in part upon our ability to enhance existing products and to develop and manufacture new products that meet or anticipate technological changes, which will require continued investment in engineering, research and development, capital equipment, marketing, customer service, and technical support. We have long been successful in introducing successive generations of more capable products, but if we were to fail to keep pace with technology or with the products of competitors, we might lose market share and harm our reputation and position as a technology leader in our markets. See further discussion in Part I, Item 1 to our 2017 Form 10-K, under Research and Development.