Our fiscal year and fiscal fourth quarter both end on December 31. Our fiscal first quarter ends on the Sunday falling closest to 91 days after December 31, which was April 1, 2018, the 91st day of our fiscal year 2018. Our fiscal second and third quarters each have 91 days. The three months ended April 2, 2017 included 92 days. 
Of the total severance, restructuring, and acquisition integration costs recognized in the three months ended April 1, 2018, $9.4 million, $9.4 million, and $1.6 million were included in cost of sales; selling, general and administrative expenses; and research and development, respectively. Of the total severance, restructuring, and acquisition integration costs recognized in the three months ended April 2, 2017, $5.9 million, $0.7 million, and $0.0 million were included in cost of sales; selling, general and administrative expenses; and research and development, respectively.
We recognized depreciation expense of $11.9 million and $11.4 million in the three months ended April 1, 2018 and April 2, 2017, respectively. 
We are a signal transmission solutions provider built around two global business platforms – Enterprise Solutions and Industrial Solutions. Our comprehensive portfolio of signal transmission solutions provides industry leading secure and reliable transmission of data, sound, and video for mission critical applications.
Effective January 1, 2018, we changed our organizational structure and, as a result, now are reporting two segments. The segments formerly known as Broadcast Solutions and Enterprise Solutions now are presented as the Enterprise Solutions segment, and the segments formerly known as Industrial Solutions and Network Solutions now are presented as the Industrial Solutions segment. The reorganization allows us to further accelerate progress in key strategic areas and the segment consolidation properly aligns our external reporting with the way the businesses are now managed. We have recast the prior period segment information to conform to the change in the composition of these reportable segments. 
We recognized amortization expense related to our intangible assets of $24.6 million and $23.7 million in the three months ended April 1, 2018 and April 2, 2017, respectively. 
During the fourth quarter of 2016, we committed to a plan to sell our MCS business and Hirschmann JV. The MCS business operated in Germany and the United States and was part of the Industrial Solutions segment, and the Hirschmann JV was an equity method investment located in China. Effective December 31, 2017, we sold the MCS business and Hirschmann JV for a total purchase price of $40.2 million, of which $39.1 million was collected during the first quarter of 2018. 
Effective January 1, 2018, we changed our organizational structure and, as a result, now are reporting two segments. The segments formerly known as Broadcast Solutions and Enterprise Solutions now are presented as the Enterprise Solutions segment, and the segments formerly known as Industrial Solutions and Network Solutions now are presented as the Industrial Solutions segment. The reorganization allows us to further accelerate progress in key strategic areas and the segment consolidation properly aligns our external reporting with the way the businesses are now managed. We have recast the prior period segment information to conform to the change in the composition of these reportable segments. This change had no impact to our reporting units for purposes of goodwill impairment testing.
We recorded a net increase to retained earnings of $2.6 million as of January 1, 2018 due to the cumulative impact of adopting Topic 606, with the impact primarily related to sales commissions and software revenues within our Industrial Solutions segment. The impact to revenues for the three months ended April 1, 2018 was a decrease of $0.1 million as a result of applying Topic 606.
We expense sales commissions as incurred when the duration of the related revenue arrangement is one year or less. We capitalize sales commissions in other current or long-lived assets on our balance sheet when the duration of the related revenue arrangement is longer than one year, and we amortize it over the related revenue arrangement period. Total capitalized sales commissions was $2.4 million as of April 1, 2018. Total sales commissions costs were $6.1 million during the three months ended April 1, 2018. Sales commissions are recorded within selling, general and administrative expenses.
For purposes of the pro forma disclosures, the three months ended April 2, 2017 includes nonrecurring expenses related to the acquisition, including severance, restructuring, and acquisition integration costs; amortization of the sales backlog intangible asset; and cost of sales arising from the adjustment of inventory to fair value of $9.2 million, $1.3 million, and $0.8 million, respectively.
During the first quarter of 2018, we began a restructuring program to integrate our acquisition of SAM with Grass Valley. The restructuring and integration activities are focused on achieving desired cost savings by consolidating existing and acquired operating facilities and other support functions. We recognized $9.2 million of severance and other restructuring costs for this program during the three months ended April 1, 2018. The costs were incurred by the Enterprise Solutions segment. We expect to incur approximately $41 million of additional severance and restructuring costs for this program, most of which will be incurred by the end of 2018. We also expect the program to generate approximately $44 million of savings on an annualized basis, which we will start realizing in the second half of 2018.Research and development expenses increased $2.6 million in the three months ended April 1, 2018 from the comparable period of 2017. Acquisitions contributed $3.6 million to the increase over the year ago period, partially offset by $0.6 million for the impact of the MCS divestiture in the fourth quarter of 2017. 
Operating income decreased $7.4 million in the three months ended April 1, 2018 from the comparable period of 2017 primarily due to the increase in selling, general and administrative expenses and research and development, partially offset by the increase in gross profit discussed above. 
•Higher copper costs contributed $7.5 million to the increase in revenues.
•Higher copper costs contributed $7.5 million to the increase in revenues.
•The acquisitions of SAM and Thinklogical contributed $28.6 million to the increase in revenues.
•The acquisitions of SAM and Thinklogical contributed $30.4 million to the increase in revenues.
Enterprise Solutions EBITDA increased $7.9 million, or 16.0%, in the three months ended April 1, 2018 compared to the year ago period driven by the revenue growth discussed above and sustainable productivity initiatives. Accordingly, EBTIDA margins expanded 60 basis points over the year ago period.