We may be unable to achieve our goals related to growth. 
Our fiscal year and fiscal fourth quarter both end on December 31. Our fiscal first quarter ends on the Sunday falling closest to 91 days after December 31, which was April 1, 2018, the 91st day of our fiscal year 2018. Our fiscal second and third quarters each have 91 days. The nine months ended September 30, 2018 and October 1, 2017 included 273 and 274 days, respectively. 
Of the total severance, restructuring, and acquisition integration costs recognized in the three months ended September 30, 2018, $4.8 million, $6.4 million, and $0.5 million were included in cost of sales; selling, general and administrative expenses; and research and development, respectively. Of the total severance, restructuring, and acquisition integration costs recognized in the three months ended October 1, 2017, $12.4 million, $4.2 million, and $0.1 million were included in cost of sales; selling, general and administrative expenses; and research and development, respectively.
All other items impacting the effective tax rate represented a net expense of $2.6 million and $2.3 million in the three and nine months ended October 1, 2017, respectively.
Of the total severance, restructuring, and acquisition integration costs recognized in the nine months ended September 30, 2018, $21.4 million, $30.3 million, and $5.3 million were included in cost of sales; selling, general and administrative expenses; and research and development, respectively. Of the total severance, restructuring, and acquisition integration costs recognized in the nine months ended October 1, 2017, $26.5 million, $6.2 million, and $0.1 million were included in cost of sales; selling, general and administrative expenses; and research and development, respectively.
We are a signal transmission solutions provider built around two global business platforms – Enterprise Solutions and Industrial Solutions. Our comprehensive portfolio of signal transmission solutions provides industry leading secure and reliable transmission of data, sound, and video for mission critical applications.
In order to meet the goals in our strategic plan, we must complete further acquisitions. The extent to which appropriate acquisitions are made will affect our overall growth, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows. Our ability to acquire businesses successfully will decline if we are unable to identify appropriate acquisition targets consistent with our strategic plan, the competition among potential buyers increases, the cost of acquiring suitable businesses becomes too expensive, or we lack sufficient sources of capital. As a result, we may be unable to make acquisitions or be forced to pay more or agree to less advantageous acquisition terms for the companies that we are able to acquire.
In order to meet the goals in our strategic plan, we must grow our business, both organically and through acquisitions. Our goal is to generate total revenue growth of 5-7% per year in constant currency. We may be unable to achieve this desired growth due to a failure to identify growth opportunities, such as trends and technological changes in our end markets. We may ineffectively execute our Market Delivery System (“MDS”), which is designed to identify and capture growth opportunities. The broadcast, enterprise, and industrial end markets we serve may not experience the growth we expect. Further, those markets may be unable to sustain growth on a long-term basis, particularly in emerging markets. If we are unable to achieve our goals related to growth, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows.
Effective January 1, 2018, we changed our organizational structure and, as a result, now are reporting two segments. The segments formerly known as Broadcast Solutions and Enterprise Solutions now are presented as the Enterprise Solutions segment, and the segments formerly known as Industrial Solutions and Network Solutions now are presented as the Industrial Solutions segment. The reorganization allows us to further accelerate progress in key strategic areas, and the segment consolidation properly aligns our external reporting with the way the businesses are now managed. We have recast the prior period segment information to conform to the change in the composition of these reportable segments. 
We recognized amortization expense related to our intangible assets of $26.2 million and $76.3 million in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively. We recognized amortization expense related to our intangible assets of $27.2 million and $77.9 million in the three and nine months ended October 1, 2017, respectively. 
We must complete further acquisitions in order to achieve our strategic plan.Operating income increased $70.2 million and $56.5 million, respectively, in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 from the comparable periods of 2017 primarily due to the gain from patent litigation and increases in gross profit discussed above, partially offset by the changes in operating expenses discussed above. 
Adjusted EBITDA increased in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 from the comparable periods of 2017 primarily due to the increases in revenues discussed above. 
Industrial Solutions revenues increased in both the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 from the comparable periods of 2017. For the three months ended September 30, 2018, volume growth and pricing increases contributed $16.0 million and higher copper prices contributed $0.3 million to the increase in revenues, partially offset by $7.8 million from the MCS divestiture in the fourth quarter of 2017 and unfavorable currency translation of $2.5 million. For the nine months ended September 30, 2018, volume growth, favorable currency translation, and higher copper prices contributed $34.1 million, $13.1 million, and $8.9 million, respectively, to the increase in revenues, partially offset by $20.8 million from the MCS divestiture in the fourth quarter of 2017. 
Enterprise Solutions EBITDA increased $10.1 million and $31.9 million, respectively, in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 from the comparable periods of 2017 as a result of the revenue growth discussed above and successful restructuring actions. Accordingly, EBITDA margins expanded 120 and 110 basis points, respectively, over the year ago period.We may be unable to achieve our goals related to growth. 
The global markets in which we operate are highly competitive.
In order to meet the goals in our strategic plan, we must complete further acquisitions. The extent to which appropriate acquisitions are made will affect our overall growth, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows. Our ability to acquire businesses successfully will decline if we are unable to identify appropriate acquisition targets consistent with our strategic plan, the competition among potential buyers increases, the cost of acquiring suitable businesses becomes too expensive, or we lack sufficient sources of capital. As a result, we may be unable to make acquisitions or be forced to pay more or agree to less advantageous acquisition terms for the companies that we are able to acquire.
The relative costs and merits of our solutions could change in the future as various competing technologies address the market opportunities. We believe that our future success will depend in part upon our ability to enhance existing products and to develop and manufacture new products that meet or anticipate technological changes, which will require continued investment in engineering, research and development, capital equipment, marketing, customer service, and technical support. We have long been successful in introducing successive generations of more capable products, but if we were to fail to keep pace with technology or with the products of competitors, we might lose market share and harm our reputation and position as a technology leader in our markets. See further discussion in Part I, Item 1 to our 2017 Form 10-K, under Research and Development.