Item 2.
Three Months Ended September 30, 2019 and 2018.
Our revenues increased $151.8 million, or 15.3%, primarily due to our acquisitions, which included Eze Software Group, LLC (“Eze”) and Intralinks Holdings, Inc. (“Intralinks”) in the fourth quarter of 2018, which, combined, contributed $147.8 million in revenues.
Software-enabled services revenues increased $132.7 million, or 16.0%, primarily due to the acquisitions, which added revenues of $146.9 million, as well as from a continued increase in demand for our fund administration services and services for advisory and wealth managers.
License, maintenance and related revenues increased $19.1 million, or 11.6%, primarily due to increased license revenues for institutional and investment management products, as well as the acquisitions, which added revenues of $0.9 million.
The unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation was $1.1 million.
Nine Months Ended September 30, 2019 and 2018.
Software-enabled services revenues increased $1,031.0 million, or 55.3%, primarily due to the acquisitions, which contributed $1,051.7 million to the increase in revenues, as well as from a continued increase in demand for our fund administration services and services for advisory and wealth managers.
License, maintenance and related revenues increased $88.3 million, or 19.8%, primarily due to increased license revenues for institutional and investment management products and advisory and wealth management products, as well as the acquisitions, which contributed $41.1 million to the increase in revenues.
The unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation was $4.3 million.
Three Months Ended September 30, 2019 and 2018.
The favorable impact from foreign currency translation reduced costs by $5.8 million.
The favorable impact from foreign currency translation reduced costs by $5.1 million.
The favorable impact from foreign currency translation reduced costs by $0.7 million.
Nine Months Ended September 30, 2019 and 2018.
The favorable impact from foreign currency translation reduced costs by $15.7 million.
The favorable impact from foreign currency translation reduced costs by $13.4 million.
The favorable impact from foreign currency translation reduced costs by $2.3 million.
Three Months Ended September 30, 2019 and 2018.
The impact from foreign currency translation reduced costs by $2.9 million.
Nine Months Ended September 30, 2019 and 2018.
The favorable impact from foreign currency translation reduced costs by $7.5 million.
Interest expense, net.
We had net interest expense of $98.5 million and $304.4 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, compared to $78.1 million and $173.7 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively.
The increase in interest expense, net for 2019 as compared to 2018 relates primarily to increased borrowings in connection with our acquisitions of DST, Eze and Intralinks and, to a lesser extent, higher average interest rates.
These facilities are discussed further in “Liquidity and Capital Resources”.
Other (expense) income, net.
We had other expense, net of $10.3 million and other income, net of $27.1 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, respectively.
During the three months ended September 30, 2019, other expense, net included investment losses and dividend income of $10.1 million.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2019, other income, net included investment gains and dividend income of $27.8 million.
We had other income, net of $13.7 million and $14.8 million for the three and nine months ended September, 30, 2018, respectively.
During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, other income, net included investment gains and dividend income of $12.1 million and $13.4 million, respectively.
The remaining portion of other income, net consists primarily of foreign currency transaction gains and losses.
Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, net.
We had equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, net of $(0.1) million and $2.1 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, compared to $1.7 million and $2.8 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively.
This is primarily related to our joint venture International Financial Data Services L.P. (“IFDS L.P.”) and represents our proportionate share of IFDS L.P.’s net income or loss, offset by the amortization of basis differences.
Loss on extinguishment of debt.
We recorded a $7.1 million loss on extinguishment of debt in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 in connection with the repayment of a portion of our Term Loans with the proceeds from the issuance of our Senior Notes.
The loss on extinguishment of debt includes costs incurred by us which did not meet the criteria for capitalization.
The Senior Notes are discussed further in “Liquidity and Capital Resources.” We recorded a $44.4 million loss on extinguishment of debt in the nine months ended September 30, 2018 in connection with the amendment and restatement of our credit agreement.
The change in the effective tax rate for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 compared to the prior year was primarily due to our acquisition of DST in April 2018 and the relative impact of permanent book to tax differences on reduced pre-tax book income in 2018 that occurred as a result.
Our principal cash requirements are to finance the costs of our operations pending the billing and collection of client receivables, to fund payments with respect to our indebtedness, to invest in research and development, to acquire complementary businesses or assets and to pay dividends on our common stock.
We expect our cash on hand, cash flows from operations, and cash available under our Credit Agreement to provide sufficient liquidity to fund our current obligations, projected working capital requirements and capital spending for at least the next twelve months.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2019, we paid quarterly cash dividends of $0.10 per share of common stock for each quarter totaling $76.0 million in the aggregate.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we paid quarterly cash dividends of $0.07 per share of common stock in March and June of 2018 and $0.08 per share of common stock in September of 2018 totaling $50.7 million in the aggregate.
Our cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash and cash equivalents, including amounts held on behalf of clients, were $1,110.9 million at September 30, 2019, a decrease of $2.4 million from $1,113.3 million at December 31, 2018.
Client funds obligations include our transfer agency client balances invested overnight as well as our contractual obligations to remit funds to satisfy client pharmacy claim obligations and are recorded on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet when incurred, generally after a claim has been processed by us.
Our contractual obligations to remit funds to satisfy client obligations are primarily sourced by funds held on behalf of clients.
We had $1,045.7 million of client funds obligations at September 30, 2019.
Net cash provided by operating activities was $755.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019.
Cash provided by operating activities primarily resulted from net income of $296.9 million adjusted for non-cash items of $556.5 million, partially offset by changes in our working capital accounts (excluding the effect of acquisitions) totaling $98.4 million.
The decrease in accrued expenses was primarily due to the payment of annual employee bonuses in the first quarter of 2019.
The increase in contract assets was primarily due to new term license deals.
The increase in deferred revenues is related to a multi-year $250.0 million license agreement signed in the third quarter of 2019 with an up-front payment of $48.0 million, which we received in the three months ended September 30, 2019 and an additional $202.0 million due in the three months ending December 31, 2019.
We recognized $15.0 million related to this agreement in the three months ended September 30, 2019.
The license revenue is expected to be recognized over approximately four years.
Investing activities used net cash of $40.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019, primarily related to $51.1 million in capitalized software development costs and $48.0 million in capital expenditures, partially offset by proceeds from sales and maturities of investments of $46.1 million, the collection of other non-current receivables of $7.7 million, cash received of $3.2 million related to purchase price adjustments for prior acquisitions and $2.1 million in proceeds from unconsolidated affiliates.
These payments were partially offset by proceeds of $74.5 million from stock option exercises and a net increase in client funds obligations of $0.8 million.
Our cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash and cash equivalents, including amounts held on behalf of clients, were $1,273.0 million at September 30, 2018, an increase of $1,208.3 million from $64.7 million at December 31, 2017.
The increase in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash and cash equivalents is primarily due to proceeds received from our borrowings and common stock offering, the impact of restricted cash and cash equivalents held by DST as well as cash provided by operations and proceeds from stock option exercises.
Net cash provided by operating activities was $322.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
Cash provided by operating activities primarily resulted from net income of $44.5 million adjusted for non-cash items of $355.7 million, partially offset by changes in our working capital accounts (excluding the effect of acquisitions) totaling $77.8 million.
Cash provided by operating activities was negatively affected by $210.0 million of costs related to the DST acquisition, including transaction, severance and other such items.
The decrease in accrued expenses was primarily due to the payment of annual employee bonuses in the first quarter of 2018.
The decrease in prepaid expenses and other assets was primarily due to the timing of payments, particularly as a result of the mid-month acquisition of DST.
maturities of investments of $28.1 million and proceeds from the sale of property and equipment of $9.6 million.
These proceeds were partially offset by repayments of debt totaling $2,856.1 million, the payment of $68.7 million in fees related to debt extinguishment and refinancing activities, $50.7 million in quarterly dividends paid and $12.7 million in withholding taxes paid related to equity award net share settlements.
We have made a permanent reinvestment determination in certain non-U.S. operations that have historically generated positive operating cash flows.
At September 30, 2019, we held approximately $71.1 million in cash that was available to our foreign borrowers under our senior secured credit facility and will be used to facilitate debt servicing of those entities.
The majority of the initial proceeds from the Initial Term Loans was used to fund our acquisition of DST, repay certain amounts outstanding under our then-existing credit agreement (“Prior Credit Agreement”), repay all of the outstanding principal amount of our 5.875% Senior Notes due 2023 (“Prior Senior Notes”) and repay acquired debt associated with DST.
On October 1, 2018, in connection with our acquisition of Eze, we entered into an amendment (the “Commitment Increase Amendment”) to the Credit Agreement.
Pursuant to the Incremental Term Loan Amendment, an additional $1.0 billion under the Term B-5 Loan was made available to us, the proceeds of which were used to finance, in part, the Intralinks acquisition.
Amounts drawn on the Revolving Credit Facility initially bear interest at either LIBOR plus 2.25% or at the base rate plus 1.25%, subject to a step-down at any time our consolidated net secured leverage ratio is less than 4.75 times, to 2.0% in the case of the LIBOR margin and 1.0% in the case of the base rate margin.
The Term B-3 Loan, Term B-4 Loan and Term B-5 Loan initially bear interest at either LIBOR plus 2.50% or at the base rate plus 1.50%, and are subject to a step-down at any time our consolidated net secured leverage ratio is less than 4.75 times, to 2.25% in the case of the LIBOR margin and 1.25% in the case of the base rate margin.
As of September 30, 2019, there was no amount outstanding under the Term Loan B-2 or the Revolving Credit Facility.
The obligations of the U.S. loan parties under the Credit Agreement are secured by substantially all of the assets of such persons (subject to customary exceptions and limitations), including a pledge of all of the capital stock of substantially all of the U.S. wholly-owned restricted subsidiaries of such persons (with customary exceptions and limitations) and 65% of the capital stock of certain foreign restricted subsidiaries of such persons (with customary exceptions and limitations).
All obligations of the non-U.S. loan parties under the Credit Agreement are secured by substantially all of our and the other guarantors’ assets (subject to customary exceptions and limitations), including a pledge of all of the capital stock of substantially all of our wholly-owned restricted subsidiaries (with customary exceptions and limitations).
The Credit Agreement includes negative covenants that, among other things and subject to certain thresholds and exceptions, limit our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to incur debt or liens, make investments (including in the form of loans and acquisitions), merge, liquidate or dissolve, sell property and assets, including capital stock of our subsidiaries, pay dividends on our capital stock or redeem, repurchase or retire our capital stock, alter the business we conduct, amend, prepay, redeem or purchase subordinated debt, or engage in transactions with our affiliates.
In addition, the Credit Agreement contains a financial covenant for the benefit of the Revolving Credit Facility requiring us to maintain a minimum consolidated net secured leverage ratio.
In addition, under the Credit Agreement, certain defaults under agreements governing other material indebtedness could result in an event of default under the Credit Agreement, in which case the lenders could elect to accelerate payments under the Credit Agreement and terminate any commitments they have to provide future borrowings.
At any time prior to March 30, 2022, we may, at our option, redeem the Senior Notes, in whole or in part, at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Senior Notes, plus an applicable “make-whole” premium, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date.
At any time on or after March 30, 2022, we may redeem some or all of the Senior Notes, in whole or in part, at the redemption prices set forth in the indenture governing the Senior Notes plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date.
In addition, at any time on or before March 30, 2022, we may to redeem up to 40% of the aggregate principal amount of the Senior Notes at a redemption price equal to 105.5% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date, with the net proceeds of one or more equity offerings.
Any event of default under the Credit Agreement that leads to an acceleration of those amounts due also results in a default under the indenture governing the Senior Notes.
In connection with the acquisition of DST, we assumed a mortgage with a principal amount of £21.0 million, which matures in October 2020 (“U.K.
Mortgage”) and a $4.1 million mortgage on property in the U.S.
Principal payments of £1.0 million are payable semi-annually in April and October of each year and accrued interest payable quarterly, with the outstanding balance due at maturity.
Our financial ratio became effective with the period ended September 30, 2018.
Any breach of this covenant could result in an event of default under the Credit Agreement.
Upon the occurrence of any event of default under the Credit Agreement, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the Credit Agreement to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit.
Additionally, under the Credit Agreement, our ability to engage in activities such as incurring additional indebtedness, making investments and paying dividends is also tied to baskets and ratios based on Consolidated EBITDA.
Consolidated EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure used in key financial covenants contained in the Credit Agreement, which is the material facility supporting our capital structure and providing liquidity to our business.
Consolidated EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”), further adjusted to exclude unusual items and other adjustments permitted in calculating covenant compliance under the Credit Agreement.
We believe that the inclusion of supplementary adjustments to EBITDA applied in presenting Consolidated EBITDA is appropriate to provide additional information to investors to demonstrate compliance with the specified financial ratio and other financial condition tests contained in the Credit Agreement.
Consolidated EBITDA does not represent net income or cash flow from operations as those terms are defined by generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, and does not necessarily indicate whether cash flows will be sufficient to fund cash needs.
Further, the Credit Agreement requires that Consolidated EBITDA be calculated for the most recent four fiscal quarters.
Further, it may not be comparable to the measure for any subsequent four-quarter period or any complete fiscal year.
Consolidated EBITDA excludes expenses and income that are permitted to be excluded per the terms of our Credit Agreement, but which others may believe are normal expenses for the operation of a business.
The following is a reconciliation of net income to Consolidated EBITDA as defined in our Credit Agreement.
Acquired EBITDA reflects the EBITDA impact of significant businesses that were acquired during the period as if the acquisition occurred at the beginning of the period, as well as cost savings enacted in connection with acquisitions.
Purchase accounting adjustments include (a) an adjustment to increase revenues by the amount that would have been recognized if deferred revenue were not adjusted to fair value at the date of acquisitions, (b) an adjustment to increase personnel and commissions expense by the amount that would have been recognized if prepaid commissions and deferred personnel costs were not adjusted to fair value at the date of the acquisitions, and (c) an adjustment to increase rent expense by the amount that would have been recognized if lease obligations were not adjusted to fair value at the date of acquisitions.
Other includes expenses and income that are permitted to be excluded per the terms of our Credit Agreement from Consolidated EBITDA, a financial measure used in calculating our covenant compliance.
Calculated as the ratio of consolidated net secured funded indebtedness, net of cash and cash equivalents, to Consolidated EBITDA, as defined by the Credit Agreement, for the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters ended on the measurement date.
Consolidated net secured funded indebtedness is comprised of indebtedness for borrowed money, letters of credit, deferred purchase price obligations and capital lease obligations, all of which is secured by liens on our property.
We adopted ASU 2016-02 as of January 1, 2019.
Prior period information was not restated and continues to be presented under ASC 840, Leases.
which among other things, allowed us to not reassess existing contracts to determine if they contain a lease and to carry forward their historical lease classification upon transition.
In addition, we will not apply the guidance of ASC 842 to leases with an initial term of 12 months or less as allowed by the standard.
Our lease portfolio primarily consists of real estate office space with lease terms ranging from 1 to 15 years.
Adoption of the new standard resulted in the recording of right-of-use assets and lease payment obligations for our real estate office leases of $387.6 million and $417.8 million, respectively, as of January 1, 2019.
As of September 30, 2019, $55.5 million of the lease liability was included in other accrued expenses on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments.
ASU 2016-13 requires companies to measure credit losses utilizing a methodology that reflects expected credit losses and requires a consideration of a broader range of reasonable and supportable information to inform credit loss estimates.
ASU 2016-13 is effective for us for our first quarter of fiscal 2020 and earlier adoption is permitted beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
We are currently evaluating the impact of the pending adoption of ASU 2016-13 on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Item 2.
Information is based on trade dates of repurchase transactions.
Share repurchases were made pursuant to our Common Stock Repurchase Program authorized by our Board of Directors on August 8, 2019.
The program allows for the purchase of up to $500 million of outstanding common stock in one or more transactions on the open market or in privately negotiated purchases.
The exhibits listed in the Exhibit Index immediately preceding such exhibits are filed as part of this Report.
