The accompanying financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”).
These accounting principles were applied on a basis consistent with those of the audited Consolidated Financial Statements contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) on March 1, 2019 (the “2018 Form 10-K”).
We adopted ASU 2016-02 as of January 1, 2019.
Prior period information was not restated and continues to be presented under ASC 840, Leases.
We elected the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance within the new standard, which among other things, allowed us to not reassess existing contracts to determine if they contain a lease and to carry forward their historical lease classification upon transition.
In addition, we will not apply the guidance of ASC 842 to leases with an initial term of 12 months or less as allowed by the standard.
Our lease portfolio primarily consists of real estate office space with lease terms ranging from 1 to 15 years.
Adoption of the new standard resulted in the recording of right-of-use assets and lease payment obligations for our real estate office leases of $387.6 million and $417.8 million, respectively, as of January 1, 2019.
As of June 30, 2019, $56.2 million of the lease liability was included in other accrued expenses on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments.
ASU 2016-13 requires companies to measure credit losses utilizing a methodology that reflects expected credit losses and requires a consideration of a broader range of reasonable and supportable information to inform credit loss estimates.
ASU 2016-13 is effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2020.
We are currently evaluating the impact of the pending adoption of ASU 2016-13 on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
We determine if our contractual agreements contain a lease at inception.
A lease is identified when a contract allows us the right to control an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration.
Our lease agreements consist primarily of operating leases for office space.
Our operating leases are included on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as operating lease assets and operating lease liabilities.
An operating lease asset represents our right to use an underlying asset over the term of a lease while an operating lease liability represents our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
Operating lease assets are also recognized at the commencement date as the total operating lease liability adjusted for prepaid rents, deferred rent liabilities and lease fair value adjustments that existed under ASC 840.
We recognized operating lease expense of $0.7 million and $1.4 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, related to these lease agreements.
Our total operating lease costs were $19.8 million and $39.7 million during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively.
Cash paid for amounts included in operating lease liabilities was $18.6 million and $36.4 million during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, and is included in operating cash flows.
Our weighted average remaining lease term and weighted average discount rates as of June 30, 2019 were 8.4 years and 5.0%, respectively.
We have certain sublease agreements in place with 3rd parties to lease portions of our office space.
In addition, we serve as a lessor in other lease agreements for real estate and storage facilities.
Total gross sublease and other rental income recognized during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 were approximately $2.2 million and $4.7 million, respectively.
As of June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, we held certain investment assets and certain liabilities that are required to be measured at fair value on a recurring basis.
These investments include money market funds, marketable equity securities and seed capital investments where fair value is determined using quoted prices in active markets.
Accordingly, the fair value measurements of these investments have been classified as Level 1 in the tables below.
Investments for which we elected net asset value as a practical expedient for fair value and investments measured using the fair value measurement alternative are excluded from the tables below.
Fair value for deferred compensation liabilities that are credited with deemed gains or losses of the underlying hypothetical investments, primarily equity securities, have been classified as Level 1 in the tables below.
Included in Cash and cash equivalents and Funds receivable and funds held on behalf of clients on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Included in Investments on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Included in Other long-term liabilities on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Included in Cash and cash equivalents and Funds receivable and funds held on behalf of clients on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Included in Investments on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Included in Other long-term liabilities on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Included in Other accrued expenses on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
During the six months ended June 30, 2019, the fair value of our non-marketable equity securities was adjusted upward by $0.5 million.
Our investments in private equity funds were $126.4 million at June 30, 2019, of which $119.2 million were measured using net asset value as a practical expedient for fair value and $7.2 million were accounted for under the equity method of accounting.
The investments in private equity funds represent underlying investments in domestic and international markets across various industry sectors.
One of our investments in private equity funds as of June 30, 2019, represented 82% of the value of the private equity fund investment portfolio.
We have no management rights associated with our partnership interests in this fund and withdrawals from this fund are subject to general partner consent.
This fund has a termination date in 2020 with an optional one-year extension at the discretion of the general partner.
We expect to receive distributions from this fund upon liquidation of the underlying investments over the next several years, however the exact timing of the distributions is unknown.
Generally, our investments in private equity funds are non-transferable or are subject to long holding periods, and withdrawals from the private equity firm partnerships are typically not permitted.
Even when transfer restrictions do not apply, there is generally no public market for the securities.
plans to sell any of these investments.
Investments in unconsolidated affiliates are accounted for under the equity method of accounting.
The total investment in unconsolidated affiliates, including basis differences, is included in Investments on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
One of the unconsolidated affiliates is a party to an interest rate swap agreement.
We record our proportionate share of the change in value of the interest rate swap agreement in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).
Amounts reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) to net income are recorded in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, net on the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income (Loss).
The following unaudited pro forma information is provided for illustrative purposes only and assumes that the acquisitions of DST Systems, Inc. (“DST”), CACEIS North America, Eze Software Group, LLC and Intralinks Holdings, Inc. occurred on January 1, 2017, after giving effect to certain adjustments, including amortization of intangibles, interest, transaction costs and tax effects.
At any time prior to March 30, 2022, we may, at our option, redeem the Senior Notes, in whole or in part, at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Senior Notes, plus an applicable “make-whole” premium, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date.
At any time on or after March 30, 2022, we may redeem some or all of the Senior Notes, in whole or in part, at the redemption prices set forth in the indenture governing the Senior Notes plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date.
In addition, at any time on or before March 30, 2022, we may redeem up to 40% of the aggregate principal amount of the Senior Notes at a redemption price equal to 105.5% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date, with the net proceeds of one or more equity offerings.
Any event of default under the Credit Agreement that leads to an acceleration of those amounts due also results in a default under the indenture governing the Senior Notes.
We evaluated the issuance of our Senior Notes and repayment of a portion of our Term B-3 Loan, in accordance with FASB Accounting Standards Codification 470-50, Debt-Modifications and Extinguishments, for modification and extinguishment accounting.
We accounted for the refinancing as a debt modification with respect to amounts that remained obligations of the same lender with minor changes in cash flows and as a debt extinguishment with respect to amounts that were obligations of lenders which remained but experienced a change in cash flows of greater than 10%.
As a result, we capitalized an aggregate of $6.1 million in financing costs during the six months ended June 30, 2019.
Other costs incurred by us in connection with the Senior Notes, of $7.1 million, which did not meet the criteria for capitalization, are included in Loss on extinguishment of debt in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income (Loss) during the six months ended June 30, 2019.
The above fair values, which are Level 2 liabilities, were computed based on comparable quoted market prices.
The fair values of cash, accounts receivable, net, short-term borrowings, and accounts payable approximate the carrying amounts due to the short-term maturities of these instruments.
Dividends.
In 2019, we paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.10 per share of common stock totaling $50.6 million in the aggregate.
In 2018, we paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.07 per share of common stock totaling $31.4 million in the aggregate.
Our software-enabled services are generally provided under contracts with initial terms of one to five years that require monthly or quarterly payments and are subject to automatic annual renewal at the end of the initial term unless terminated by either party.
Maintenance services are generally provided under annually renewable contracts.
Revenues from professional services consist mostly of services provided on a time and materials basis.
Deferred revenues are recognized as (or when) we perform under the contract.
Accordingly, as of June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, approximately $39.9 million and $32.4 million, respectively, of deferred revenue is presented net within contract assets arising from the same contracts.
The amount of revenues recognized in the period that was included in the opening deferred revenues balance was $59.6 million and $146.4 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively.
The amount of revenues recognized in the period that was included in the opening deferred revenues balance was $54.4 million and $131.0 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively.
As of June 30, 2019, revenue of approximately $364.4 million is expected to be recognized from remaining performance obligations for license, maintenance and related revenues, of which $208.7 million is expected to be recognized over the next twelve months.
The effective tax rate was 22.0% and (61.0)% for the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively and 19.9% and (87.7)% for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The change in the effective tax rate for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 compared to the respective prior year periods was primarily due to the acquisition of DST during the three months ended June 30, 2018 and the relative impact of permanent book to tax differences on reduced pre-tax book income in 2018 that occurred as a result.
Earnings per share (“EPS”) is calculated in accordance with the relevant standards.
Basic EPS includes no dilution and is computed by dividing net income available to our common stockholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period.
Common equivalent shares consist of stock options, SARs, RSUs and restricted stock awards (“RSAs”) using the treasury stock method.
Common equivalent shares are excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share if the effect of including such common equivalent shares is anti-dilutive because their total assumed proceeds exceed the average fair value of common stock for the period.
Stock options and SARs representing 4.1 and 4.4 million shares were outstanding for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, but were not included in the computation of diluted EPS because the effect of including them would be anti-dilutive.
No dilutive securities have been included in the diluted EPS calculation for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 due to our reported net loss for the three and six months then ended.
The letter stated that if the fiduciaries fail to take corrective action, the matter may be referred to the Office of the Solicitor of Labor for possible legal action.
The letter further stated that if the fiduciaries take proper corrective action based on a settlement agreement with the Department of Labor, it will not bring a lawsuit with regard to these issues, and close its investigation without further action.
In March 2019, DST agreed to extend the statute of limitations applicable to such a lawsuit based on a request from the Department of Labor as its investigation is ongoing.
The underlying claim in each is the same as in the above-described Ferguson matter, with the exception that each is an individual claim and not a putative class action.
parties jointly submitted 315 of the demands for arbitration to the American Arbitration Association.
The remaining demands for arbitration have not yet been submitted.
The information regarding certain legal proceedings in which we are involved as set forth in Note 14 – Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q) is incorporated by reference into this Item 1.
At this time, we do not believe any material losses under these claims to be probable.
Item 1A.
The exhibits listed in the Exhibit Index immediately preceding such exhibits are filed as part of this Report.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
