From time to time the Company may also be involved in legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business.
From time to time the Company may also be involved in legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business.
The adoption also resulted in an increase in cash flow from operations and a decrease of cash flow from financing of $16.2 million in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018.
The Company’s highly innovative analog semiconductors are connecting people, places, and things, spanning a number of new and previously unimagined applications within the automotive, broadband, cellular infrastructure, connected home, industrial, medical, military, smartphone, tablet and wearable markets.
The first quarters of fiscal year 2018 and fiscal year 2017 each consisted of 13 weeks and ended on December 29, 2017, and December 30, 2016, respectively.
Skyworks Solutions, Inc., together with its consolidated subsidiaries (“Skyworks” or the “Company”), is empowering the wireless networking revolution.
The amount recorded in the statement of operations within selling, general and administrative expense for the three months ended December 29, 2017, is not material.The increase in research and development expenses for the three months ended December 29, 2017, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017, was primarily related to an increase in employee-related compensation expense and product development– related expenses.
We currently anticipate finalizing and recording any resulting adjustments by the end of our current fiscal year ending September 28, 2018.
The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses for the three months ended December 29, 2017, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017, was primarily related to an increase in employee compensation.
This report and other documents we have filed with the SEC contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), and are subject to the “safe harbor” created by those sections.
Cash used in investing activities consists primarily of cash paid for acquisitions net of cash acquired, capital expenditures, cash received from the sale of capital assets, and cash related to the sale or maturity of investments.
Our highly innovative analog semiconductors are connecting people, places, and things spanning a number of new and previously unimagined applications within the automotive, broadband, cellular infrastructure, connected home, industrial, medical, military, smartphone, tablet and wearable markets.We will adopt this amendment during our second fiscal quarter of 2018.
We will adopt this guidance during the first quarter of fiscal year 2019.
This ASU provides guidance on the presentation and classification of specific cash flow items to improve consistency within the statement of cash flows.From time to time the Company may also be involved in legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business.
Item 2.