From time to time the Company may also be involved in legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business.
From time to time the Company may also be involved in legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business.
The Company’s revenue to external customers is generated principally from the sale of semiconductor products that facilitate various wireless communication applications.
The Company’s analog semiconductors are connecting people, places, and things, spanning a number of new applications within the aerospace, automotive, broadband, cellular infrastructure, connected home, industrial, medical, military, smartphone, tablet and wearable markets.
For the three months ended December 28, 2018, and December 29, 2017, one customer accounted for 58% and 56%, respectively, of the Company’s net revenue.
The Company has a single reportable operating segment which designs, develops, manufactures and markets similar proprietary semiconductor products, including intellectual property.
The amount recorded in the statement of operations within selling, general and administrative expense for the three months ended December 28, 2018, is not material.
There were no indicators of impairment identified during the three months ended December 28, 2018.
During the three months ended December 28, 2018, the Company declared and paid a $0.38 dividend per common share with a total charge to retained earnings of $67.1 million
Skyworks Solutions, Inc., together with its consolidated subsidiaries (“Skyworks” or the “Company”), is empowering the wireless networking revolution.
There were no changes to the carrying amount of goodwill during the three months ended December 28, 2018.We generated net revenue of $972.0 million for the three months ended December 28, 2018, a decrease of $79.9 million or 7.6%, as compared with $1,051.9 million for the corresponding period in fiscal 2018.
Cash provided by investing activities consists of cash received related to the sale or maturity of marketable securities, partially offset by cash paid for capital expenditures and cash paid related to the purchase of marketable securities.
During the three months ended December 29, 2017, $4.0 million in amortization of intangibles was included in selling, general and administrative expense.
The increase in research and development expenses for the three months ended December 28, 2018, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, was primarily related to an increase in employee-related compensation expense and product development–related expenses.However, we may choose not to hedge certain foreign exchange exposures for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to, accounting considerations and the prohibitive economic cost of hedging particular exposures.From time to time the Company may also be involved in legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business.