Item 4.
Controls and Procedures

Our management, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer, have evaluated the effectiveness of the Company's disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) and have concluded that as of May 3, 2019, these controls and procedures were operating and effective.
Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

There have been no changes in our internal control over financial reporting during the quarterly period covered by this report that materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
Legal Proceedings

We have provided information about legal proceedings in which we are involved in our fiscal 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and we have provided an update to this information in Note 11 of the notes to the condensed and consolidated financial statements contained within this report.
In addition to the described legal proceedings, we are routinely subject to investigations and reviews relating to compliance with various laws and regulations.
Additional information regarding such investigations and reviews is included in our fiscal 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and we have also updated this information in Note 11 of the notes to the condensed and consolidated financial statements contained within this report, under the heading “Government Investigations, Audits and Reviews.”

Item 1A.
Risk Factors

There have been no material changes from the risk factors disclosed in our most recently filed Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds

Purchases of Equity Securities.
We may repurchase shares on the open market in accordance with established repurchase plans.
Whether repurchases are made and the timing and amount of repurchases depend on a variety of factors including market conditions, our capital position, internal cash generation and other factors.
We also repurchase shares in connection with stock option and stock award activities to satisfy tax withholding obligations.
Item 3.
Defaults Upon Senior Securities

No information is required in response to this item.
Item 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures

No information is required in response to this item.
Item 5.
Other Information

No information is required in response to this item.
Exhibits


SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Science Applications International Corporation


Charles A. Mathis

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
