Item 4. Controls and Procedures



Our management, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer, have evaluated the effectiveness of the Company's disclosure controls and procedures as of May 4, 2018. Based upon this evaluation, the Company's Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that the Company's disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of May 4, 2018, because of a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. During the assessment process at February 2, 2018, we identified deficiencies in the operating effectiveness of controls over the training and awareness of contractual requirements related to multi-customer funding and the design of program control and time sheet review controls over contracts with multi-customer funding sources. These deficiencies were evaluated as having the potential to result in a material misstatement in our financial statements and aggregated to a material weakness in our internal controls. 



Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting



Except for the ongoing remediation efforts with respect to the material weakness described above, there have been no changes in our internal control over financial reporting during the quarterly period covered by this report that materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.



Our management is implementing its plan to remediate the material weakness described above. Remediation efforts include improving the design of program control and time sheet review controls over contracts with multi-customer funding sources and increased training and awareness in the administration of such contracts. We expect to complete the remediation of the material weakness in the second quarter of fiscal 2019. 



SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION



Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures



No information is required in response to this item.



Item 5. Other Information



No information is required in response to this item.



SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION



Item 6. Exhibits





SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION



SIGNATURES



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.





Science Applications International Corporation





Charles A. Mathis



Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer



