Item 1.
Financial Statements
SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
CONDENSED AND CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
See accompanying notes to condensed and consolidated financial statements.
SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
CONDENSED AND CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
See accompanying notes to condensed and consolidated financial statements.
SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
CONDENSED AND CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
See accompanying notes to condensed and consolidated financial statements.
SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
CONDENSED AND CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EQUITY
See accompanying notes to condensed and consolidated financial statements.
SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
CONDENSED AND CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
See accompanying notes to condensed and consolidated financial statements.
SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONDENSED AND CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Overview
Science Applications International Corporation (collectively, with its consolidated subsidiaries, the “Company”) is a leading provider of technical, engineering and enterprise information technology (IT) services primarily to the U.S. government.
The Company provides engineering and integration services for large, complex projects and offers a broad range of services with a targeted emphasis on higher-end, differentiated technology services.
The Company is organized as a matrix comprised of three customer facing operating segments supported by a solutions and technology group.
Each of the Company’s three customer facing operating segments is focused on providing the Company’s comprehensive technical and enterprise IT service offerings to one or more agencies of the U.S. federal government.
The Company's operating segments are aggregated into one reportable segment for financial reporting purposes.
On January 14, 2019, the Company completed the acquisition of Engility Holdings, Inc. (collectively with its consolidated subsidiaries, "Engility"), which provides increased customer and market access, as well as increased scale in strategic business areas of national interest, such as defense, federal civilian agencies, intelligence and space.
Principles of Consolidation and Basis of Presentation
The accompanying financial information has been prepared by the Company pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission for interim reporting purposes.
References to “financial statements” refer to the condensed and consolidated financial statements of the Company, which include the statements of income and comprehensive income, balance sheets, statements of equity and statements of cash flows.
These financial statements were prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
All intercompany transactions and account balances within the Company have been eliminated.
The financial statements are unaudited, but in the opinion of management include all adjustments, which consist of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation thereof.
The results reported in these financial statements are not necessarily indicative of results that may be expected for the entire year and should be read in conjunction with the information contained in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended February 1, 2019.
Non-controlling Interest.
As a result of the acquisition of Engility, the Company holds a 50.1% majority interest in Forfeiture Support Associates J.V.
(FSA).
The results of operations of FSA are included in the Company's condensed and consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income.
The non-controlling interest reported on the condensed and consolidated balance sheets represents the portion of FSA's equity that is attributable to the non-controlling interest.
Use of Estimates
The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingencies at the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods.
Significant estimates inherent in the preparation of the financial statements may include, but are not limited to estimated profitability of long-term contracts, income taxes, fair value measurements, fair value of goodwill and other intangible assets, pension and defined benefit plan obligations, and contingencies.
Estimates have been prepared by management on the basis of the most current and best available information at the time of estimation and actual results could differ from those estimates.
Reporting Periods
Operating Cycle
The Company’s operating cycle may be greater than one year and is measured by the average time intervening between the inception and the completion of contracts.
SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONDENSED AND CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Derivative Instruments Designated as Cash Flow Hedges
Derivative instruments are recorded on the condensed and consolidated balance sheets at fair value.
Unrealized gains and losses on derivatives designated as cash flow hedges are reported in other comprehensive income (loss) and reclassified to earnings in a manner that matches the timing of the earnings impact of the hedged transactions.
The Company’s fixed interest rate swaps are considered over-the-counter derivatives, and fair value is calculated using a standard pricing model for interest rate swaps with contractual terms for maturities, amortization and interest rates.
Level 2, or market observable inputs (such as yield and credit curves), are used within the standard pricing models in order to determine fair value.
The fair value is an estimate of the amount that the Company would pay or receive as of a measurement date if the agreements were transferred to a third party or canceled.
See Note 8 for further discussion on the Company’s derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges.
Inventory
Inventory is substantially comprised of finished goods inventory purchased for resale to customers, such as tires and lubricants, and is valued at the lower of cost or net realizable value, generally using the average method.
The Company evaluates current inventory against historical and planned usage to estimate the appropriate provision for obsolete inventory.
Marketable Securities
Investments in marketable securities consist of equity securities which are recorded at fair value using observable inputs such as quoted prices in active markets (Level 1).
As of August 2, 2019 and February 1, 2019, the fair value of our investments total $25 million and $4 million, respectively, and was included in other assets on the condensed and consolidated balance sheets.
The Company's investments are primarily held in a custodial account, which includes investments to fund our deferred compensation plan liabilities.
Cash, Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash
Accounting Standards Updates
In February 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No.
2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), which supersedes the existing lease accounting standards (Topic 840).
Under the new guidance, a lessee will be required to recognize lease assets and lease liabilities for all leases with lease terms in excess of twelve months.
The recognition, measurement and presentation of expenses and cash flows arising from a lease by a lessee primarily will depend on its classification as either a finance lease or operating lease.
The criteria for distinction between a finance lease and an operating lease are substantially similar to existing lease guidance for capital leases and operating leases.
Some changes to lessor accounting have been made to conform and align that guidance with the lessee guidance and other areas within GAAP, such as Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606).
In July 2018, the FASB provided an optional transition method of adoption, permitting entities to recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the period of adoption as opposed to the beginning of the earliest period presented in the financial statements.
ASU 2016-02 became effective for the Company in the first quarter of fiscal 2020.
The Company adopted the standard using the optional transition method.
Accordingly, the prior periods were not recast, and all prior period amounts disclosed are presented under ASC 840.
The Company elected certain practical expedients provided under the standard, including the package of practical expedients, which allows entities not to reassess whether existing contracts are or contain leases.
Therefore, at adoption, existing leases have been identified using the criteria of ASC 840.
SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONDENSED AND CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As a result of the adoption of the new standard, on February 2, 2019, the Company recognized approximately $169 million of right of use operating assets and $187 million of operating lease liabilities, of which $140 million was noncurrent.
The adoption did not have a material impact on retained earnings, the condensed and consolidated statements of income, or the condensed and consolidated statements of cash flows.
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU No.
2018-15, Customer’s Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That Is a Service Contract, which aligns the capitalization requirements for implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the existing capitalization requirements for implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software (Subtopic 350-40).
ASU 2018-15 becomes effective for the Company in the first quarter of fiscal 2021 and may be adopted either retrospectively or prospectively.
Early adoption is permitted.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of this standard on its financial statements.
Other Accounting Standards Updates effective after August 2, 2019 are not expected to have a material effect on the Company’s financial statements.
Basic earnings per share (EPS) is computed by dividing net income attributable to common stockholders by the basic weighted-average number of shares outstanding.
Diluted EPS is computed similarly to basic EPS, except the weighted-average number of shares outstanding is increased to include the dilutive effect of outstanding stock options and other stock-based awards.
Changes in Estimates
SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONDENSED AND CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Aggregate changes in these estimates increased operating income by $4 million ($0.05 per diluted share) and $12 million ($0.16 per diluted share) for the three and six months ended August 2, 2019, respectively, increased operating income by $2 million ($0.03 per diluted share) for the three months ended August 3, 2018, and decreased operating income by $3 million ($0.05 per diluted share) for the six months ended August 3, 2018.
Changes in these estimates increased net income by $3 million and $9 million for the three and six months ended August 2, 2019, respectively.
In addition, revenues were $5 million and $14 million higher for the three and six months ended August 2, 2019, respectively, due to net revenue recognized from performance obligations satisfied in prior periods.
Disaggregation of Revenues
The Company's revenues are generated primarily from long-term contracts with the U.S. government including subcontracts with other contractors engaged in work for the U.S. government.
The Company disaggregates revenues by customer, contract-type and prime vs. subcontractor to the federal government.
SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONDENSED AND CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Contract Balances
During the six months ended August 2, 2019 and August 3, 2018, the Company recognized revenues of $19 million and $9 million relating to amounts that were included in the opening balance of contract liabilities as of February 1, 2019 and February 3, 2018, respectively.
$6 million in revenues were recognized for the three months ended August 2, 2019, relating to amounts that were included in the opening balance of contract liabilities - current as of February 1, 2019.
Deferred Costs
Pre-contract costs of $1 million were expensed during the six months ended August 2, 2019 and $2 million were expensed during the three and six months ended August 3, 2018, respectively.
Fulfillment costs of $1 million and $2 million were amortized during the three and six months ended August 2, 2019, respectively.
Remaining Performance Obligations
As of August 2, 2019, the Company had $4.2 billion of remaining performance obligations.
Remaining performance obligations exclude any variable consideration that is allocated entirely to unsatisfied performance obligations on our supply chain contracts.
The Company expects to recognize revenue on approximately 80% of the remaining performance obligations over the next 12 months and approximately 90% over the next 24 months, with the remaining recognized thereafter.
On January 14, 2019, the Company completed the acquisition of Engility Holdings, Inc., a leading provider of integrated solutions and services supporting U.S. government customers in the defense, federal civilian, and intelligence and space communities.
This strategic acquisition enables greater market and customer access, particularly in the intelligence and space communities, and enhances the Company's portfolio of capabilities, particularly in the area of systems engineering and integration.
The acquisition enables acceleration of revenue growth through increased market and customer access, increased investment capacity, addition of cleared personnel and strategic alignment with key customers.
The acquisition also enables increased profitability and cash generation with an improved margin profile and greater financial flexibility for investment and capital deployment.
The acquisition was funded through a combination of SAIC common stock and additional borrowings.
At the effective time of the acquisition, each outstanding share of Engility common stock was automatically cancelled and
SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONDENSED AND CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
converted into the right to receive 0.45 shares of the Science Applications International Corporation common stock.
The Company amended its credit agreement to provide for a new five-year senior secured $1.1 billion term loan facility.
SAIC borrowed the entire amount of the term loan facility, the proceeds of which were immediately used to repay Engility's existing credit facility and outstanding notes and to pay fees and expenses associated with the acquisition, with the balance retained by SAIC to be used for general corporate purposes.
Represents the fair value of the converted vesting stock awards assumed attributable to pre-acquisition service.
SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONDENSED AND CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Goodwill represents intellectual capital and an acquired assembled work force.
The Company inherited Engility's historical tax basis in deductible goodwill, certain other intangible assets, and net operating loss carryforwards.
The Company incurred $136 million in costs associated with the acquisition and integration of Engility.
Acquisition-related expenses, all of which were incurred in fiscal year 2019, were $63 million including $31 million of debt issue costs, and $2 million in stock issue costs.
For the three and six months ended August 2, 2019, the Company incurred $8 million and $18 million, respectively, of costs in connection with the integration of Engility, primarily for strategic consulting services, severance costs, and other integration-related costs.
The Company did not incur any acquisition and integration costs for the three and six months ended August 3, 2018.
These costs are included in acquisition and integration costs on the condensed and consolidated statements of income.
Stock Options
During the six months ended August 2, 2019, the Company granted certain employees 0.1 million stock options with a weighted-average exercise price and weighted-average grant date fair value of $75.43 and $16.82, respectively.
These options will expire on the seventh anniversary of the grant date and will vest ratably on each anniversary of the grant date over a three-year period.
SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONDENSED AND CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Restricted Stock Units (RSUs)
During the six months ended August 2, 2019, the Company granted certain employees 0.4 million RSUs with a weighted-average grant date fair value of $75.34, which will vest ratably on each anniversary of the grant date over a three-year period.
Performance Shares
During the six months ended August 2, 2019, the Company granted to certain employees 0.1 million performance share awards with a grant date fair value of $79.04 per award.
These awards will cliff vest at the end of the third fiscal year following the grant date, subject to meeting the minimum service requirements and the achievement of certain annual and cumulative financial metrics of the Company’s performance, with the number of shares ultimately issued, if any, ranging up to 150% of the specified target shares.
The Company's effective income tax rate was 23.3% and 21.6% for the three and six months ended August 2, 2019, respectively, and 23.1% and 17.2% for the three and six months ended August 3, 2018, respectively.
The Company's effective tax rate was higher for the six months ended August 2, 2019 compared to the prior year period due principally to lower excess tax benefits related to employee share-based compensation.
Tax rates for the periods ended August 2, 2019 were lower than the combined federal and state statutory rates due principally to excess tax benefits related to employee share-based compensation, research and development credits, partially offset by permanent book tax differences.
As of August 2, 2019, the balance of unrecognized tax benefits included liabilities for uncertainty in income taxes of $14 million, which is classified as other long-term liabilities on the condensed and consolidated balance sheets.
Of this balance, $12 million, if recognized, would impact the effective income tax rate for the Company.
While the
Company believes it has adequate accruals for uncertainty in income taxes, the tax authorities, on review of the Company’s tax filings, may determine that the Company owes taxes in excess of recorded accruals, or the recorded accruals may be in excess of the final settlement amounts agreed to by tax authorities.
Although the timing of such reviews is not certain, we believe it is reasonably possible that $2 million to $4 million of unrecognized tax benefits will reverse in the next 12 months due to the resolution of a tax authority examination and approximately $2 million as a result of statute of limitations expirations, along with associated interest and penalties.
As of August 2, 2019, the Company has a $2.4 billion credit facility (the Credit Facility) consisting of a $400 million secured Revolving Credit Facility with an available capacity of $300 million for additional borrowings, a $918 million secured Term Loan A Facility, and a $1,042 million secured Term Loan B Facility (together, the Term Loan Facilities).
As of August 2, 2019, the outstanding principal under the Revolving Credit Facility was classified as
SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONDENSED AND CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
current portion of long-term debt on the condensed and consolidated balance sheets.
Subsequent to quarter end, the Company repaid $50 million on the Revolving Credit Facility.
As of August 2, 2019, the Company was in compliance with the covenants under its Credit Facility.
As of August 2, 2019 and February 1, 2019, the carrying value of the Company’s outstanding debt obligations approximated its fair value.
The fair value of long-term debt is calculated using Level 2 inputs, based on interest rates available for debt with terms and maturities similar to the Company’s term loan facilities.
The fair value of the fixed interest rate swaps liability is included in accounts payable and accrued liabilities on the condensed and consolidated balance sheets.
The Company is party to fixed interest rate swap instruments that are designated and accounted for as cash flow hedges to manage risks associated with interest rate fluctuations on a portion of the Company’s floating rate debt.
The counterparties to all swap agreements are financial institutions.
See Note 9 for the unrealized change in fair values on cash flow hedges recognized in other comprehensive loss and the amounts reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive loss into earnings for the current and comparative periods presented.
The Company estimates that it will reclassify $10 million of unrealized losses from accumulated other comprehensive loss into earnings in the twelve months following August 2, 2019.
On October 31, 2018, the Company exited one of its interest rate swaps and discontinued hedge accounting.
The Company received cash proceeds of $6 million upon the early settlement.
The $6 million of deferred gains in accumulated other comprehensive loss will be reclassified into interest expense over the original contractual term of the interest rate swaps, which has a maturity date of May 7, 2020.
SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONDENSED AND CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The following table presents the changes in accumulated other comprehensive loss attributable to the Company’s fixed interest rate swap cash flow hedges that are discussed in Note 8.
The amount reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive loss is included in interest expense.
The Company occupies most of its facilities under operating leases.
Certain equipment also is leased under short-term or cancelable operating leases.
SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONDENSED AND CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Effective upon the adoption of ASU 2016-02, the Company recognizes a right of use (ROU) asset and a lease liability upon the commencement of its operating leases.
The initial lease liability is equal to the future fixed minimum lease payments discounted using the Company’s incremental borrowing rate, on a secured basis.
The lease term includes option renewal periods and early termination payments when it is reasonably certain that the Company will exercise those rights.
The initial measurement of the ROU asset is equal to the initial lease liability plus any initial direct costs and prepayments, less any lease incentives.
The Company recognizes lease costs on a straight-line basis over the remaining lease term, except for variable lease payments that are expensed in the period in which the obligation for those payments is incurred.
For its facility leases, the Company combines and accounts for lease and non-lease components together as a single component.
The Company does not recognize lease liabilities and ROU assets for facility leases with original terms of 12 months or less.
ROU assets are evaluated for impairment as a long-lived asset.
SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONDENSED AND CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As of August 2, 2019, the Company has rental commitments of $1 million for facility leases that have not yet commenced.
These operating leases are expected to commence in fiscal 2020 and have a weighted-average lease term of approximately 6 years.
Legal Proceedings
The Company is involved in various claims and lawsuits arising in the normal conduct of its business, none of which the Company’s management believes, based on current information, is expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
AAV Termination for Convenience
On August 27, 2018, the Company received a stop-work order from the United States Marine Corps on the Assault Amphibious Vehicle (AAV) contract and on October 3, 2018 the program was terminated for convenience by the customer.
Beginning in fiscal 2018, the Company entered into contracts with various vendors for long-lead time materials that would be necessary to complete the low-rate initial production (LRIP) phase of the program, including portions of the LRIP phase which had not yet been awarded.
As a result of the program termination, the Company recognized an inventory provision for long-lead items.
The Company is continuing to negotiate with the Marine Corps to recover all costs associated with the termination.
Government Investigations, Audits and Reviews
The Company is routinely subject to investigations and reviews relating to compliance with various laws and regulations with respect, in particular, to its role as a contractor to federal, state and local government customers and in connection with performing services in countries outside of the United States.
U.S. government agencies, including the DCAA, the Defense Contract Management Agency and others, routinely audit and review a contractor’s performance on government contracts, indirect rates and pricing practices, and compliance with applicable contracting and procurement laws, regulations and standards.
They also review the adequacy of the contractor’s compliance with government standards for its business systems.
Adverse findings in these investigations, audits, or reviews can lead to criminal, civil or administrative proceedings, and the Company could face disallowance of previously billed costs, penalties, fines, compensatory damages and suspension or debarment from doing business with governmental agencies.
Due to the Company’s reliance on government contracts, adverse findings could also have a material impact on the Company’s business, including its financial position, results of operations and cash flows.
SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONDENSED AND CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The indirect cost audits by the DCAA of the Company’s business remain open for fiscal 2011 and subsequent years.
Although the Company has recorded contract revenues subsequent to and including fiscal 2011 based on an estimate of costs that the Company believes will be approved on final audit, the Company does not know the outcome of any ongoing or future audits.
If future completed audit adjustments exceed the Company’s reserves for potential adjustments, the Company’s profitability could be materially adversely affected.
The Company has recorded reserves for estimated net amounts to be refunded to customers for potential adjustments for indirect cost audits and compliance with Cost Accounting Standards.
As of August 2, 2019, the Company has recorded a total liability of $68 million for estimated net amounts to be refunded to customers for potential adjustments from audits of contract costs, which is presented in accounts payable and accrued liabilities on the condensed and consolidated balance sheets.
Any additional amounts which may be determined to be owed for periods prior to the separation will be allocated to former Parent and the Company in proportions determined in accordance with the Distribution Agreement.
Letters of Credit and Surety Bonds
The Company has outstanding obligations relating to letters of credit of $11 million as of August 2, 2019, principally related to guarantees on insurance policies.
The Company also has outstanding obligations relating to surety bonds in the amount of $18 million, principally related to performance and payment bonds on the Company’s contracts.
SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings
We have provided information about legal proceedings in which we are involved in our fiscal 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and we have provided an update to this information in Note 11 of the notes to the condensed and consolidated financial statements contained within this report.
In addition to the described legal proceedings, we are routinely subject to investigations and reviews relating to compliance with various laws and regulations.
Additional information regarding such investigations and reviews is included in our fiscal 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and we have also updated this information in Note 11 of the notes to the condensed and consolidated financial statements contained within this report, under the heading “Government Investigations, Audits and Reviews.”
Item 1A.
Risk Factors
There have been no material changes from the risk factors disclosed in our most recently filed Annual Report on Form 10-K.
