Item 3.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

There have been no material changes to our Market Risks from those discussed in our most recently filed Annual Report on Form 10-K.

SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION

Item 4.
Controls and Procedures

Our management, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer, have evaluated the effectiveness of the Company's disclosure controls and procedures as of May 4, 2018.
Based upon this evaluation, the Company's Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that the Company's disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of May 4, 2018, because of a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting.
During the assessment process at February 2, 2018, we identified deficiencies in the operating effectiveness of controls over the training and awareness of contractual requirements related to multi-customer funding and the design of program control and time sheet review controls over contracts with multi-customer funding sources.
These deficiencies were evaluated as having the potential to result in a material misstatement in our financial statements and aggregated to a material weakness in our internal controls.
Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

Except for the ongoing remediation efforts with respect to the material weakness described above, there have been no changes in our internal control over financial reporting during the quarterly period covered by this report that materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
Our management is implementing its plan to remediate the material weakness described above.
Remediation efforts include improving the design of program control and time sheet review controls over contracts with multi-customer funding sources and increased training and awareness in the administration of such contracts.
We expect to complete the remediation of the material weakness in the second quarter of fiscal 2019.
Legal Proceedings

We have provided information about legal proceedings in which we are involved in our fiscal 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and we have provided an update to this information in Note 9 of the notes to the condensed and consolidated financial statements contained within this report.
In addition to the described legal proceedings, we are routinely subject to investigations and reviews relating to compliance with various laws and regulations.
Additional information regarding such investigations and reviews is included in our fiscal 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and we have also updated this information in Note 9 of the notes to the condensed and consolidated financial statements contained within this report, under the heading “Government Investigations, Audits and Reviews.”

Item 1A.
Risk Factors

There have been no material changes from the risk factors disclosed in our most recently filed Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds

Purchases of Equity Securities.
We may repurchase shares on the open market in accordance with established repurchase plans.
Whether repurchases are made and the timing and amount of repurchases depend on a variety of factors including market conditions, our capital position, internal cash generation and other factors.
We also repurchase shares in connection with stock option and stock award activities to satisfy tax withholding obligations.
Item 3.
Defaults Upon Senior Securities

No information is required in response to this item.
