PART II—OTHER INFORMATION



Item 1. Legal Proceedings



We have provided information about legal proceedings in which we are involved in our fiscal 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and we have provided an update to this information in Note 10 of the notes to the condensed and consolidated financial statements contained within this report.



In addition to the described legal proceedings, we are routinely subject to investigations and reviews relating to compliance with various laws and regulations. Additional information regarding such investigations and reviews is included in our fiscal 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and we have also updated this information in Note 10 of the notes to the condensed and consolidated financial statements contained within this report, under the heading “Government Investigations, Audits and Reviews.”



Item 1A. Risk Factors



Other than with respect to the risk factors included below related to our pending merger with Engility Holdings, Inc. (Engility), there have been no material changes from the risk factors disclosed in our most recently filed Annual Report on Form 10-K.





If we are unable to complete our contemplated acquisition of Engility, our expected financial results and the market value of our common stock could be adversely affected.





•various conditions to the closing of the merger may not be satisfied or waived;



•the inability to obtain consents from third parties who have “change of control” or similar clauses in their agreements with Engility;



•the failure to consummate the merger may result in negative publicity and a negative impression of us in the investment community;



•litigation relating to the merger could be commenced, which may prevent the merger from becoming effective within the expected time frame, if at all;



•required regulatory approvals from governmental entities may delay the merger or result in the imposition of conditions that could cause the abandonment of the merger; and



•the attention of our employees and management may be diverted due to activities related to the merger, which may harm our relationships with our employees, customers, distributors, suppliers, and other business partners, may impair our ability to continuously innovate to meet the industry inflections, and may result in a loss of or a substantial decrease in purchases by our customers.



SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION



Even if the Engility merger is consummated, we may not be able to successfully integrate the business of Engility with our own or realize the anticipated benefits of the merger in the expected time frame, or at all.





•the inability to successfully combine our business with Engility in a manner that permits the combined company to achieve the full revenue and cost synergies and other benefits anticipated to result from the merger;



•the loss of customers and strategic partners who may not wish to continue their relationships with the combined company;



•required regulatory approvals from governmental entities may result in limitations, additional costs or placement of restrictions on the conduct of the combined company, imposition of additional material costs on or materially limiting the revenues of the combined company following the merger;



•complexities associated with managing the combined businesses, including difficulty addressing possible differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies and the challenge of integrating complex systems, technology, networks and other assets of each of the companies in a seamless manner that minimizes any adverse impact on customers, suppliers, employees and other business partners; and



•potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses or delays associated with the merger.



Many of these factors will be outside of our control and any one of them could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of management’s time and energy, which could materially impact the business, financial condition and our results of operations. These benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame, or at all. Furthermore, additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of the businesses. All of these factors could decrease or delay the anticipated benefits of the merger and negatively impact us. In addition, we have operated and, until the completion of the merger will continue to operate, independently. These and other factors could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, employees and other partners, and our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger.



The exchange ratio will not be adjusted in the event of any change in either the Company or Engility stock price.





•changes in the SAIC’s or Engility’s respective businesses, operations and prospects, or the market assessments thereof; 



•market assessments of the likelihood that the merger will be completed; and 



•general market and economic conditions and other factors generally affecting the price of SAIC common stock



The price of SAIC common shares at the closing of the merger may vary from the price on the date the Merger Agreement was executed and the dates of the respective special meetings of our stockholders and Engility’s stockholders. As a result, the market value of the merger consideration may also vary. 



SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION



We and Engility will incur direct and indirect costs as a result of the Merger. 



We and Engility will incur substantial expenses in connection with and as a result of completing the merger and, over a period of time following the completion of the merger, we further expect to incur substantial expenses in connection with coordinating our businesses, operations, policies and procedures and Engility’s. While we have assumed that a certain level of transaction expenses will be incurred, factors beyond our control could affect the total amount or the timing of these expenses. Many of the expenses that will be incurred, by their nature, are difficult to estimate accurately.



In connection with the merger, we may be required to take write-downs or write-offs, restructuring and impairment or other charges that could negatively affect our business, assets, liabilities, prospects, outlook, financial condition and results of operations.



Although we have conducted extensive due diligence on Engility in connection with the merger, we cannot assure that this diligence revealed all material issues that may be present, that it would be possible to uncover all material issues through a customary amount of due diligence, or that factors outside of our control will not later arise. Even if our due diligence successfully identifies certain risks, unexpected risks may arise and previously known risks may materialize in a manner not consistent with our preliminary risk analysis. Further, as a result of the merger, purchase accounting, and the proposed operation of the company after closing, we may be required to take write-offs or write-downs, restructuring and impairment or other charges that could negatively affect business, assets, liabilities, prospects, outlook, financial condition and results of operations after closing.



Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds



Purchases of Equity Securities. We may repurchase shares on the open market in accordance with established repurchase plans. Whether repurchases are made and the timing and amount of repurchases depend on a variety of factors including market conditions, our capital position, internal cash generation and other factors. We also repurchase shares in connection with stock option and stock award activities to satisfy tax withholding obligations.











Item 3. Defaults Upon Senior Securities



No information is required in response to this item.



Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures



No information is required in response to this item.



Item 5. Other Information



No information is required in response to this item.



SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION



Item 6. Exhibits





SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION



SIGNATURES



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.





Science Applications International Corporation





Charles A. Mathis



Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer



