fls.txt
Generally, the inclusion of the words “anticipate,” “believe,” “expect,” “future,” “intend,” “estimate,” “will,” “plans,” or the negative of such terms and similar expressions identify statements that constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that are intended to come within the safe harbor protection provided by those sections.


item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited consolidated condensed financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring accruals) considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included, unless otherwise disclosed.
EnerSys (the “Company”) reports interim financial information for 13-week periods, except for the first quarter, which always begins on April 1, and the fourth quarter, which always ends on March 31.
The consolidated condensed financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries and any partially owned subsidiaries that the Company has the ability to control.
2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)” providing guidance on revenue from contracts with customers that supersedes most current revenue recognition guidance, including industry-specific guidance.
The underlying principle is that an entity will recognize revenue to depict the transfer of goods or services to customers at an amount that the entity expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services.
The Company recognizes revenue when (or as) performance obligations are satisfied by transferring control of the performance obligation to a customer.
Control of a performance obligation may transfer to the customer either at a point in time or over time depending on an evaluation of the specific facts and circumstances for each contract, including the terms and conditions of the contract as agreed with the customer, as well as the nature of the products or services to be provided.
Each customer purchase order sets forth the transaction price for the products and services purchased under that arrangement.
Service revenues related to the work performed for the Company’s customers by its maintenance technicians generally represent a separate and distinct performance obligation.
These customized products generally have no alternative use to the Company and the terms and conditions of these arrangements give the Company the enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date, including a reasonable profit margin.
For these arrangements, control transfers over time and the Company measures progress towards completion by selecting the input or output method that best depicts the transfer of control of the underlying goods and services to the customer for each respective arrangement.
Methods used by the Company to measure progress toward completion include labor hours, costs incurred and units of production.
The Company's typical payment terms are 30 days and sales arrangements do not contain any significant financing component for its customers.
Revenues recognized during the second quarter and six months of fiscal 2019, that were included in the contract liability at the beginning of the current quarter and six months, amounted to $661 and $2,597, respectively.


item2.txt
EnerSys’ management uses the non-GAAP measures “primary working capital” and “primary working capital percentage” in its evaluation of business segment cash flow and financial position performance.
We also manufacture, market and distribute products such as battery chargers, power equipment, battery accessories, and outdoor cabinet enclosures.
•Reserve power products are used for backup power for the continuous operation of critical applications in telecommunications systems, uninterruptible power systems, or “UPS” applications for computer and computer-controlled systems, and other specialty power applications, including medical and security systems, premium starting, lighting and ignition applications, in switchgear, electrical control systems used in electric utilities, large-scale energy storage, energy pipelines, in commercial aircraft, satellites, military aircraft, submarines, ships and tactical vehicles.
•Motive power products are used to provide power for electric industrial forklifts used in manufacturing, warehousing and other material handling applications as well as mining equipment, diesel locomotive starting and other rail equipment.
During the second quarter and six months of fiscal 2019, where permitted, we increased our selling prices in response to increased commodity costs including other raw materials and freight.
We believe that our financial position is strong, and we have substantial liquidity with $545 million of available cash and cash equivalents and available and undrawn credit lines of approximately $531 million at September 30, 2018 to cover short-term liquidity requirements and anticipated growth in the foreseeable future.
In fiscal 2018, we entered into a new credit facility (“2017 Credit Facility”) that comprises a $600 million senior secured revolving credit facility (“2017 Revolver”) and a $150 million senior secured term loan (“2017 Term Loan”) with a maturity date of September 30, 2022, which provides us with sufficient liquidity to fund acquisitions and stock repurchase programs.
We believe that our strong capital structure and liquidity affords us access to capital for future capital expenditures, acquisition and stock repurchase opportunities and continued dividend payments.
This increase was the result of a 7% increase in organic volume and a 2% increase in pricing, partially offset by a 2% decrease in foreign currency translation impact.
This increase was the result of a 6% increase in organic volume and a 2% increase in pricing, partially offset by a 1% decrease in foreign currency translation impact.


item3.txt
This takes into account the hedge contracts in place at September 30, 2018, lead purchased by September 30, 2018 that will be reflected in future costs under our FIFO accounting policy, and the benefit from our lead tolling program.
Additionally, as we report our financial statements in U.S. dollars, our financial results are affected by the strength of the currencies in countries where we have operations relative to the strength of the U.S. dollar.


item4.txt



part2.txt
See Litigation and Other Legal Matters in Note 7 - Commitments, Contingencies and Litigation to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements, which is incorporated herein by reference.


