fls.txt
Generally, the inclusion of the words “anticipate,” “believe,” “expect,” “future,” “intend,” “estimate,” “will,” “plans,” or the negative of such terms and similar expressions identify statements that constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that are intended to come within the safe harbor protection provided by those sections.


item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited consolidated condensed financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring adjustments except those otherwise described herein) considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included, unless otherwise disclosed.
The financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto included in the Company’s 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K (SEC File No.
EnerSys (the “Company,”) reports interim financial information for 13-week periods, except for the first quarter, which always begins on April 1, and the fourth quarter, which always ends on March 31.
The consolidated condensed financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries and any partially owned subsidiaries that the Company has the ability to control.
•to apply the short-term lease exception to leases that, at the commencement date, has a lease term of 12 months or less and does not include an option to purchase the underlying asset that the lessee is reasonably certain to exercise.
Upon adoption, the Company recorded Right-of-use (“ROU”) assets and lease liabilities of approximately $84,878 and $87,248, respectively.
The discount rates used to calculate the ROU assets and lease liabilities as of the effective date were based on the remaining lease terms as of the effective date.
2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)” on April 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective transition method.
Service revenues related to the work performed for the Company’s customers by its maintenance technicians generally represent a separate and distinct performance obligation.
Service revenues for the second quarter of fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2019 amounted to $61,282 and $37,105, respectively.
A small portion of the Company's customer arrangements oblige the Company to create customized products for its customers that require the bundling of both products and services into a single performance obligation because the individual products and services that are required to fulfill the customer requirements do not meet the definition for a distinct performance obligation.
These customized products generally have no alternative use to the Company and the terms and conditions of these arrangements give the Company the enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date, including a reasonable profit margin.
For these arrangements, control transfers over time and the Company measures progress towards completion by selecting the input or output method that best depicts the transfer of control of the underlying goods and services to the customer for each respective arrangement.
Methods used by the Company to measure progress toward completion include labor hours, costs incurred and units of production.
Amounts representing work completed and not billed to customers represent contract assets and were $46,319 and $38,778 as of September 29, 2019 and March 31, 2019, respectively.


item2.txt
The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the “Reform Act”) provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of EnerSys.
EnerSys’ management uses the non-GAAP measures “primary working capital” and “primary working capital percentage” in its evaluation of business segment cash flow and financial position performance.
We also manufacture, market and distribute products such as battery chargers, power equipment, battery accessories, and outdoor cabinet enclosures.
Additionally, the Company acquired substantially all of the assets of Alpha Technologies Inc. and certain assets of Altair Advanced Industries, Inc. and other affiliates of ATS and ATL (all such sellers, together with ATS and ATL, “Alpha”), in each case in accordance with the terms and conditions of certain restructuring agreements (collectively, the “asset acquisition” and together with the share purchase, the “acquisition”).
Based in Bellingham, Washington, Alpha is a global industry leader in the comprehensive commercial-grade energy solutions for broadband, telecom, renewable, industrial and traffic customers around the world.
These shares were issued out of the Company's treasury stock and were valued at $84.92 per share, which was based on the thirty-day volume weighted average stock price of the Company’s common stock at closing, in accordance with the purchase agreement.
On September 30, 2019, we completed the acquisition of NorthStar, headquartered in Stockholm, Sweden, for $78.0 million in cash consideration and the assumption of $104.5 million in debt, which was funded using existing cash and credit facilities.
Recent indicators suggest a slowdown in economic activity among all the different geographical regions in which we do business.
Lead prices rose for the most part of fiscal 2018, peaked in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 and then declined sequentially in every quarter in fiscal 2019.
We believe that our financial position is strong, and we have substantial liquidity with $425 million of available cash and cash equivalents and available and undrawn credit lines of approximately $426 million at September 29, 2019 to cover short-term liquidity requirements and anticipated growth in the foreseeable future.


item3.txt
We manage our exposure to these market risks through internally established policies and procedures and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments.
A 100 basis point increase in interest rates would have increased interest expense, on an annualized basis, by approximately $8.7 million on the variable rate portions of our debt.


item4.txt



part2.txt
See Litigation and Other Legal Matters in Note 10 - Commitments, Contingencies and Litigation to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements, which is incorporated herein by reference.


