The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements were prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, or U.S. GAAP, for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, Regulation S-X.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments considered necessary for a fair statement of results of operations and financial position have been included.
Except for the accounting policy for leases, which was updated as a result of adopting a new accounting standard related to leases, there have been no material changes to our significant accounting policies in Note 1 - Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 27, 2019.
We determine if an arrangement is or contains a lease at inception.
Operating leases with lease terms of more than 12 months are included in operating lease assets, accrued and other current liabilities, and long-term operating lease liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet.
Operating lease assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments over the lease term.
Operating lease assets and liabilities are recognized based on the present value of the remaining lease payments discounted using our incremental borrowing rate.
Operating lease assets also include initial direct costs incurred and prepaid lease payments, minus any lease incentives.
Our lease terms include options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise that option.
We combine the lease and non-lease components in determining the operating lease assets and liabilities.
Refer to Note 3 of these Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
We operate on a 52- or 53-week year, ending on the last Sunday in January.
All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
other contingencies.
The Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued an accounting standards update regarding the accounting for leases under which lease assets and liabilities are recognized on the balance sheet.
Refer to Note 3 of these Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
In June 2016, the FASB issued a new accounting standard to replace the incurred loss impairment methodology under current GAAP with a methodology that reflects expected credit losses and requires consideration of a broader range of reasonable and supportable information to inform credit loss estimates.
We will be required to use a forward-looking expected credit loss model for accounts receivable and other financial instruments, including available-for-sale debt securities.
The standard will be effective for us beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021, with early adoption permitted.
We are currently evaluating the impact of this standard on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Note 2 - Merger Agreement with Mellanox Technologies, Ltd.
On March 10, 2019, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, or the Merger Agreement, with Mellanox Technologies Ltd., or Mellanox, pursuant to which we will acquire all of the issued and outstanding common shares of Mellanox for $125 per share in cash, representing a total enterprise value of approximately $6.9 billion as of the date of the Merger Agreement.
The closing of the merger is subject to approval by regulatory agencies.
If the Merger Agreement is terminated under certain circumstances involving the failure to obtain the required regulatory approvals, we could be obligated to pay Mellanox a termination fee of $350 million.
We have received regulatory approval in the United States and Mexico and are engaged with regulators in Europe and China.
In June 2019, Mellanox shareholders approved the merger.
In addition, we elected the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance, which allowed us not to reassess (1) whether any expired or existing contracts are or contain leases, (2) lease classification for any expired or existing leases, and (3) initial direct costs for any existing leases.
The cumulative-effect adjustment upon adoption of the new lease accounting standard resulted in the recognition of $470 million of operating lease assets and $500 million of operating lease liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.
The difference of $30 million represents deferred rent for leases that existed as of the date of adoption, which was an offset to the opening balance of operating lease assets.
Our lease obligations consist of operating leases for our headquarters complex, domestic and international office facilities, and data center space, with lease periods expiring between fiscal years 2020 and 2035.
Operating lease expense for the second quarter and first half of fiscal year 2020 was $28 million and $55 million, respectively.
Operating lease expense for the second quarter and first half of fiscal year 2019 was $20 million and $36 million, respectively.
Short-term and variable lease expenses for the second quarter and first half of fiscal year 2020 were not significant.
As of July 28, 2019, our operating leases had a weighted average remaining lease term of 8.7 years and a weighted average discount rate of 3.70%.
We recognized an income tax expense of $54 million and $48 million for the second quarter and first half of fiscal year 2020, respectively, and $79 million and $146 million for the second quarter and first half of fiscal year 2019, respectively.
The effective tax rate for the second quarter and first half of fiscal year 2020 was 8.8% and 4.9%, respectively, and 6.7% and 5.9% for the second quarter and first half of fiscal year 2019, respectively.
The decrease in our effective tax rate for the first half of fiscal year 2020 as compared to the first half of fiscal year 2019 was primarily due to an increase in the impact of tax benefits from the U.S. federal research tax credit and stock-based compensation.
resolved with the respective tax authorities.
As of July 28, 2019, we do not believe that our estimates, as otherwise provided for, on such tax positions will significantly increase or decrease within the next twelve months.
Our cash equivalents and marketable securities are classified as “available-for-sale” debt securities.
For the second quarter and first half of fiscal years 2020 and 2019, there were no other-than-temporary impairment losses and net realized gains were not significant.
The amortized cost and estimated fair value of cash equivalents and marketable securities as of July 28, 2019 and January 27, 2019 are shown below by contractual maturity.
The fair values of our financial assets and liabilities are determined using quoted market prices of identical assets or quoted market prices of similar assets from active markets.
We review fair value hierarchy classification on a quarterly basis.
Refer to Note 12 of these Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
The increase in gross carrying amount of intangible assets is due to purchases of licensed technology during the first half of fiscal year 2020.
Amortization expense associated with intangible assets was $6 million and $13 million for the second quarter and first half of fiscal year 2020, respectively, and $6 million and $17 million for the second quarter and first half of fiscal year 2019, respectively.
Future amortization expense related to the net carrying amount of intangible assets as of July 28, 2019 is estimated to be $12 million for the remainder of fiscal year 2020, $16 million in fiscal year 2021, $9 million in fiscal year 2022, $7 million in fiscal year 2023, and $5 million in fiscal year 2024.
Deferred revenue primarily includes customer advances and deferrals related to license and development arrangements and post contract customer support, or PCS.
Deferred revenue primarily includes deferrals related to PCS.
The following table shows the changes in deferred revenue during the first half of fiscal years 2020 and 2019.
We enter into foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements on our operating expenses.
The fair value of the contracts was not significant as of July 28, 2019 and January 27, 2019.
We also enter into foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate the impact of foreign currency movements on monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollar.
As of July 28, 2019, all designated foreign currency forward contracts mature within eighteen months.
In fiscal year 2017, we issued $1.00 billion of the 2.20% Notes Due 2021, and $1.00 billion of the 3.20% Notes Due 2026, or collectively, the Notes.
However, no make-whole premium will be paid for redemptions of the Notes Due 2021 on or after August 16, 2021, or for redemptions of the Notes Due 2026 on or after June 16, 2026.
The net proceeds from the Notes were $1.98 billion, after deducting debt discount and issuance costs.
The Notes are our unsecured senior obligations and rank equally in right of payment with all existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness.
All existing and future liabilities of our subsidiaries will be effectively senior to the Notes.
We have a Credit Agreement under which we may borrow up to $575 million for general corporate purposes and can obtain revolving loan commitments up to $425 million.
As of July 28, 2019, we had not borrowed any amounts under this agreement.
We have a $575 million commercial paper program to support general corporate purposes.
As of July 28, 2019, we had not issued any commercial paper.
As of July 28, 2019, we had outstanding inventory purchase obligations totaling $757 million.
As of July 28, 2019, we had outstanding capital purchase obligations totaling $133 million.
The estimated amount of product returns and warranty liabilities was $17 million and $18 million as of July 28, 2019 and January 27, 2019, respectively.
Maximum potential future payments cannot be estimated because many of these agreements do not have a maximum stated liability.
On May 3, 2019, an alleged stockholder of Mellanox filed a putative class action lawsuit alleging that the proxy statement filed by Mellanox in connection with the stockholder vote on NVIDIA’s pending acquisition of Mellanox violates Sections 14(a) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and asserting claims under those statutes against Mellanox and its board of directors as well as NVIDIA.
The complaint, which is captioned Stein v. Mellanox Technologies, Ltd., et al., Case No.
19-2428 (United States District Court, Northern District of California), seeks declaratory and injunctive relief and unspecified damages.
A number of other alleged Mellanox stockholders have filed substantially similar lawsuits against Mellanox and its directors in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California and in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, but to date, NVIDIA has not been named as a defendant in any of these other lawsuits.
Beginning August 2004, our Board of Directors authorized us to repurchase our stock.
During the second quarter and first half of fiscal year 2020, we paid $97 million and $195 million, respectively, in cash dividends to our shareholders.
Through July 28, 2019, we have repurchased an aggregate of 260 million shares under our share repurchase program for a total cost of $7.08 billion.
As of July 28, 2019, we were authorized, subject to certain specifications, to repurchase additional shares of our common stock up to $7.24 billion through December 2022.
As of July 28, 2019 and January 27, 2019, there were no shares of preferred stock outstanding.
Our operating segments are equivalent to our reportable segments.
We report our business in two primary reportable segments - the GPU business and the Tegra Processor business - based on a single underlying architecture.
Our GPU product brands are aimed at specialized markets including GeForce for gamers; Quadro for designers; Tesla and DGX for artificial intelligence, data scientists and big data researchers; and GRID for cloud-based visual computing users.
Our Tegra brand integrates an entire computer onto a single chip, and incorporates GPUs and multi-core CPUs to drive supercomputing for autonomous robots, drones, and cars, as well as for game consoles and mobile gaming and entertainment devices.
Under the single unifying architecture for our GPU and Tegra Processors, we leverage our visual computing expertise by charging the operating expenses of certain core engineering functions to the GPU business, while charging the Tegra Processor business for the incremental cost of the teams working directly for that business.
expenses of certain functions benefit both reportable segments, our CODM assigns 100% of those expenses to the reportable segment that benefits the most.
Reportable segments do not record intersegment revenue, and, accordingly, there is none to be reported.
The accounting policies for segment reporting are the same as for our consolidated financial statements.
The table below presents details of our reportable segments and the “All Other” category.
One customer represented approximately 11% of our total revenue for the second quarter and the first half of fiscal year 2020, and was attributable primarily to the GPU business.
No customer represented 10% or more of total revenue for the second quarter and first half of fiscal year 2019.
One customer represented approximately 20% of our accounts receivable balance as of July 28, 2019, and one customer represented approximately 19% of our accounts receivable balance as of January 27, 2019.
Refer to Part I, Item 1, Note 13 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of significant developments in our legal proceedings since January 27, 2019.
Also refer to Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 27, 2019 for a prior discussion of our legal proceedings.
Refer to the description of the risk factors associated with our business previously disclosed in Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 27, 2019.
There have been no material changes from the risk factors previously described under Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 27, 2019 and Item 1A of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended April 28, 2019.
