Refer to Part I, Item 1, Note 13 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of significant developments in our legal proceedings since January 27, 2019. Also refer to Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 27, 2019 for a prior discussion of our legal proceedings.
Refer to the description of the risk factors associated with our business previously disclosed in Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 27, 2019. Other than the risk factors listed below, there have been no material changes from the risk factors previously described under Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 27, 2019 and Item 1A of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended April 28, 2019.
Our worldwide operations could be disrupted by earthquakes, telecommunications failures, power or water shortages, outages at cloud service providers, tsunamis, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, cyber-attacks, terrorist attacks, medical epidemics or pandemics and other natural or man-made disasters, catastrophic events or climate change. The occurrence of any of these disruptions could harm our business and result in significant losses, a decline in revenue and an increase in our costs and expenses. Any of these business disruptions could require substantial expenditures and recovery time in order to fully resume operations. Our corporate headquarters, and a portion of our research and development activities, are located in California, and other critical business operations, finished goods inventory, and some of our suppliers are located in Asia, near major earthquake faults known for seismic activity. In addition, a large portion of our current datacenter capacity is located in California, making our operations vulnerable to natural disasters or other business disruptions occurring in these geographical areas. The manufacture of product components, the final assembly of our products and other critical operations are concentrated in certain geographic locations, including Taiwan, China, Hong Kong, and Korea. Additionally, a significant portion of our finished goods product distribution occurs through Hong Kong. Geopolitical change or changes in government regulations and policies in the United States or abroad may result in changing regulatory requirements, trade policies, import duties and economic disruptions that could impact our operating strategies, 
•our partners may discontinue sales or lose market share in the markets for which they purchase our products.
Beginning August 2004, our Board of Directors authorized us to repurchase our stock. 
Since the inception of our share repurchase program, we have repurchased an aggregate of 260 million shares under our share repurchase program for a total cost of $7.08 billion through October 27, 2019. All shares delivered from these repurchases have been placed into treasury stock.
As of October 27, 2019, we were authorized to repurchase additional shares of our common stock up to $7.24 billion through December 2022.
The repurchases can be made in the open market, in privately negotiated transactions, or in structured share repurchase programs, and can be made in one or more larger repurchases. The program does not obligate NVIDIA to acquire any particular amount of common stock and the program may be suspended at any time at our discretion.
We previously communicated our intent to return $3.00 billion to shareholders by the end of fiscal year 2020, including $700 million in share repurchases made during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2019. In the first nine months of fiscal year 
2020, we returned $292 million in quarterly cash dividends. We had no share repurchases during the first nine months of fiscal year 2020. We intend to return the remaining $2.01 billion through a combination of share repurchases and cash dividends. We do not expect to repurchase shares prior to the close of the acquisition of Mellanox.
We also withhold common stock shares associated with net share settlements to cover tax withholding obligations upon the vesting of restricted stock unit awards under our employee equity incentive program. During the third quarter of fiscal year 2020, we withheld approximately 1 million shares at a total cost of $202 million through net share settlements. During the first nine months of fiscal year 2020, we withheld approximately 3 million shares at a total cost of $463 million through net share settlements. Refer to Note 4 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion regarding our equity incentive plans.
