fls.txt
This ASU introduces a new forward-looking approach, based on expected losses, to estimate credit losses on certain types of financial instruments, including trade receivables.
This ASU also expands the disclosure requirements to enable users of financial statements to understand the assumptions, models and methods for estimating expected credit losses.


item1.txt
1.Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies CDW Corporation ("Parent") is a Fortune 500 company with multi-national capabilities and a leading provider of integrated information technology ("IT") solutions to small, medium and large business, government, education and healthcare customers in the United States ("US"), the United Kingdom ("UK") and Canada.
The Company's offerings range from discrete hardware and software products to integrated IT solutions such as mobility, security, data center optimization, cloud computing, virtualization and collaboration.
Throughout this report, the terms the "Company" and "CDW" refer to Parent and its 100% owned subsidiaries.
CDW Finance Corporation is a Delaware corporation formed for the sole purpose of acting as co-issuer of certain debt obligations as described in Note 12 (Supplemental Guarantor Information) and does not hold any material assets or engage in any business activities or operations.
Prior period amounts have been adjusted accordingly.
All intercompany transactions and accounts are eliminated in consolidation.
Except as noted above for the adoption of Topic 606, there have been no material changes to the Company's significant accounting policies and estimates during the three months ended March 31, 2018.
The Company is a primary distribution channel for a large group of vendors and suppliers, including original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"), software publishers and wholesale distributors.
Revenues from most software license sales are recognized as a single performance obligation on a gross basis as the Company is acting as a principal in these transactions at the point the software license is delivered to the customer.
original functionality), and if the customer chooses to not delay or always install upgrades.
The warranties are not sold separately and only provide assurance that products will conform with the manufacturer's specifications.
These extended warranties are sold separately and provide the customer with a service in addition to assurance that the product will function as expected.
For service-type warranties, the Company is arranging for those services to be provided by the third-party and therefore is acting as an agent in the transaction and records revenue on a net basis at the point of sale.
SaaS solutions utilize third-party partners to offer the Company's customers access to software in the cloud that enhances office productivity, provides security or assists in collaboration.
IaaS solutions utilize third-party partners to enable customers to access data center functionality in a cloud-based solution, including storage, computing and networking.


item2.txt
See "Forward-Looking Statements" at the end of this discussion.
We are technology "agnostic," with a portfolio including more than 100,000 products and services from more than 1,000 leading and emerging brands.
Our solutions are delivered in physical, virtual and cloud-based environments through over 6,000 customer-facing coworkers, including sellers, highly-skilled technology specialists and advanced service delivery engineers.
We are a leading sales channel partner for many original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"), software publishers and cloud providers (collectively, our "vendor partners"), whose products we sell or include in the solutions we offer.
We provide our vendor partners with a cost-effective way to reach customers and deliver a consistent brand experience through our established end-market coverage, technical expertise and extensive customer access.
•Changes in spending policies, budget priorities and funding levels are a key factor influencing government, healthcare and education purchasing levels.
•Customer focus on security has been, and we expect will continue to be, an ongoing trend.
Key trends in technology include increasing adoption of cloud-based solutions for certain key workloads, including backup and recovery, collaboration and security, as well as adoption of hyper-converged appliances to deliver greater flexibility and efficiency.
We believe that the most important of these measures and ratios include average daily sales, gross margin, operating margin, Net income, Non-GAAP income before income taxes, Non-GAAP net income, Net income per common share, Non-GAAP net income per diluted share, EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA margin, free cash flow, return on working capital, Cash and cash equivalents, net working capital, cash conversion cycle (defined to be days of sales outstanding in Accounts receivable plus days of supply in Inventory minus days of purchases outstanding in Accounts payable, based on a rolling three-month average), debt levels including available credit and leverage ratios, sales per coworker and coworker turnover.
These measures and ratios are compared to standards or objectives set by management, so that actions can be taken, as necessary, in order to achieve the standards and objectives.
Management uses these measures to evaluate period-over-period performance as management believes they provide a more comparable measure of the underlying business.
Additionally, Adjusted EBITDA is a measure in the credit agreement governing our Senior Secured Term Loan Facility ("Term Loan"), which is used to evaluate our ability to make certain investments, incur additional debt, and make restricted payments, such as dividends and share repurchases, as well as whether we are required to make additional principal prepayments on the Term Loan beyond the quarterly amortization payments.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
Item 1.


