The ASU introduces a new forward-looking approach, based on expected losses, to estimate credit losses on certain types of financial instruments, including trade receivables.CDW Finance Corporation is a Delaware corporation formed for the sole purpose of acting as co-issuer of certain debt obligations as described in Note 13 (Supplemental Guarantor Information) and does not hold any material assets or engage in any business activities or operations.
The significant accounting policies used in preparing these Consolidated Financial Statements were applied on a basis consistent with those reflected in the December 31, 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements.
All intercompany transactions and accounts are eliminated in consolidation.
Except as noted below for the adoption of Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2016-02, Leases ("Topic 842"), there have been no material changes to the Company's significant accounting policies and estimates during the nine months ended September 30, 2019.
The Company enters into operating lease contracts, as assessed at contract inception, primarily for real estate, data centers and equipment.
For real estate and data center contracts, the Company accounts for the lease and non-lease components as a single lease component.
For certain equipment leases, the Company applies a portfolio approach to account for the right-of-use asset and operating lease liability.See "Forward-Looking Statements" at the end of this discussion.
We are technology "agnostic," with a broad portfolio including more than 100,000 products and services from more than 1,000 leading and emerging brands.
Our solutions are delivered in physical, virtual and cloud-based environments through over 6,000 customer-facing coworkers, including sellers, highly-skilled technology specialists and advanced service delivery engineers.
We are a leading sales channel partner for many original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"), software publishers and cloud providers (collectively, our "vendor partners"), whose products we sell or include in the solutions we offer.
We provide our vendor partners with a cost-effective way to reach customers and deliver a consistent brand experience through our established end-market coverage, technical expertise and extensive customer access.
This is particularly the case for our Corporate and Small Business customers, as their purchases tend to reflect confidence in their business prospects, which are driven by their discrete perceptions of business and general economic conditions.
•Changes in spending policies, budget priorities and funding levels are a key factor influencing the purchasing levels of government, healthcare and education customers.
•Technology trends drive customer purchasing behaviors in the market.
Effective January 1, 2019, we made a change to the Non-GAAP financial measures that we use to provide meaningful methods of evaluating our financial performance and have replaced EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin with Non-GAAP operating income and Non-GAAP operating income margin.
Non-GAAP operating income is also being used for the first time in 2019 as a key business metric for our annual incentive compensation programs.