item1.txt
j2 Global, Inc., together with its subsidiaries (“j2 Global”, the “Company”, “our”, “us”, or “we”), is a leading provider of internet services. Through our Cloud Services segment, we provide cloud services to consumers and businesses and license our intellectual property (“IP”) to third parties. In addition, the Cloud Services segment includes fax, voice, backup, security and email marketing products. Our Digital Media segment specializes in the technology, gaming, lifestyle and healthcare markets, offering content, tools and services to consumers and businesses. 
j2 Global reserves for receivables it may not be able to collect. The reserves for the Company’s Cloud Services segment are typically driven by the volume of credit card declines and past due invoices and are based on historical experience as well as an evaluation of current market conditions. The reserves for the Company’s Digital Media segment are typically driven by past due invoices based on historical experience. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates the adequacy of these reserves. 
j2 Global recognizes revenue when the Company satisfies its obligation by transferring control of the goods or services to its customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services (see Note 3 - Revenues). 
The Company accounts for its investments in debt securities in accordance with ASC Topic No. 320, Investments - Debt Securities (“ASC 320”). Debt investments are typically comprised of corporate debt securities. j2 Global determines the appropriate classification of its investments at the time of acquisition and evaluates such determination at each balance sheet date. Trading securities are those investments that the Company intends to sell within a few hours or days and are carried at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses included in investment income. Available-for-sale securities are those investments j2 Global does not intend to hold to maturity and can be sold. Available-for-sale securities are carried at fair value with unrealized gains and losses included in other comprehensive income. Held-to-maturity securities are those investments which the Company has the ability and intent to hold until maturity and are recorded at amortized cost. All debt securities are accounted for on a specific identification basis.
The Company recognizes its equity in the net earnings or losses relating to the investment in OCV on a one-quarter lag due to the timing and availability of financial information from OCV. If the Company becomes aware of a significant decline in value, the loss will be recorded in the period in which the Company identifies the decline.
j2 Global complies with the provisions of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) ASC Topic No. 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (“ASC 820”), in measuring fair value and in disclosing fair value measurements. ASC 820 provides a framework for measuring fair value and expands the disclosures required for fair value measurements of financial and non-financial assets and liabilities.
Property and equipment are stated at cost. Equipment under capital leases is stated at the present value of the minimum lease payments. Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. The estimated useful lives of property and equipment range from 1 to 10 years. Fixtures, which are comprised primarily of leasehold improvements and equipment under capital leases, are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives or for leasehold improvements, the related lease term, if less. The Company has capitalized certain internal use software and website development costs which are included in property and equipment. The estimated useful life of costs capitalized is evaluated for each specific project and ranges from 1 to 5 years.
j2 Global measures the contingent earn-out liabilities in connection with acquisitions at fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable inputs classified within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy (see Note 6 - Fair Value Measurements). The Company may use various valuation techniques depending on the terms and conditions of the contingent consideration including a Monte-Carlo simulation. This simulation uses a probability distribution for each significant input to produce hundreds or thousands of possible outcomes, and the results are analyzed to determine probabilities of different outcomes occurring. Significant increases or decreases to these inputs in isolation would result in a significantly higher or lower liability with a higher liability capped by the contractual maximum of the contingent earn-out obligation. Ultimately, the liability will be equivalent to the amount paid, and the difference between the fair value estimate and the amount paid will be recorded in earnings. The amount paid that is less than or equal to the liability on the acquisition date is reflected as cash used in financing activities in our consolidated statements of cash flows. Any amount paid in excess of the liability on the acquisition date is reflected as cash used in operating activities.
Digital Media revenues are earned primarily from the delivery of advertising services and from subscriptions to services and information. Payment is received in arrears by check or wire and includes terms aligned with the industry standard of 90 days or less.
Revenue from subscriptions is earned through the granting of access to, or delivery of, certain data products or services to customers. Subscriptions cover video games and related content, health information, data and other copyrighted material. Revenues under such agreements are recognized over the contract term for use of the service. Revenues are also earned from listing fees, subscriptions to online publications, and from other sources. Subscription revenues are recognized over time.
j2 Global also generates Digital Media revenues through the license of certain assets to clients. Assets are licensed for clients’ use in their own promotional materials or otherwise. Such assets may include logos, editorial reviews, or other copyrighted material. Revenues under such license agreements are recognized over the contract term for use of the asset. Technology assets are also licensed to clients. These assets are recognized over the term of the access period. The Digital Media business also generates other types of revenues, marketing and production services, and from other sources. Such other revenues are generally recognized over the period in which the products or services are delivered. Revenues are no longer generated in 2018 from certain marketing and production services as a result of the sale of certain Digital Media assets during 2017.
The Company records revenue on a gross basis with respect to revenue generated (i) by the Company serving online display and video advertising across its owned and operated web properties, on third-party sites or on unaffiliated advertising networks, (ii) through the Company’s lead-generation business and (iii) through the Company’s subscriptions. The Company records revenue on a net basis with respect to revenue paid to the Company by certain third-party advertising networks who serve online display and video advertising across the Company’s owned-and-operated web properties and certain third-party sites.
The Company’s Cloud Services revenues substantially consist of monthly recurring subscription and usage-based fees, which are primarily paid in advance by credit card. The Company defers the portions of monthly, quarterly, semi-annually and annually recurring subscription and usage-based fees collected in advance of the satisfaction of performance obligations and recognizes them in the period earned. 
Along with our numerous proprietary Cloud Services solutions, the Company also generates revenues by reselling various third-party solutions, primarily through our email security and online backup lines of business. These third-party solutions, along with our proprietary products, allow the Company to offer customers a variety of solutions to better meet their needs. The Company records revenue on a gross basis with respect to reseller revenue because the Company has control of the specified good or service prior to transferring control to the customer. 
The Company has recorded $67.9 million of revenue for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 which was previously included in the contract liability balance as of the adoption date. The prior quarter disclosure of $74.5 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018 included $17.5 million of revenue recognized related to contract liabilities generated after the adoption date. As a result, such revenue is excluded from the disclosure for the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
The Company satisfies its performance obligations within the Digital Media segment upon delivery of services to its customers. Payments for these services are typically due shortly after they have been provided. In addition, the Company provides content to its advertising partners which the Company sells to its partners’ customer base and receives a revenue share based on the terms of the agreement. 
The Company satisfies its performance obligations within the Cloud Services segment upon delivery of services to its customers. Payment terms vary by type and location of our customers and the services offered. The term between invoicing and when payment is due is not significant. For certain services and customer types, we require payment before services are delivered to the customer. Due to the nature of the services provided, there are no obligations for returns.


item2.txt
Our Cloud Services segment generates revenues primarily from customer subscription and usage fees and from IP licensing fees. Our Digital Media segment generates revenues from advertising and sponsorships, subscription and usage fees, performance marketing and licensing fees.
Assuming a stable or improving economic environment, and subject to our risk factors, we expect the revenue and profits in our Digital Media segment to improve over the next several quarters as we integrate our recent acquisitions and over the longer term as advertising transactions continue to shift from offline to online. The main focus of our advertising programs is to provide relevant and useful advertising to visitors to our websites and those included within our advertising networks, reflecting our commitment to constantly improve their overall web experience. As a result, we expect to continue to take steps to improve the relevance of the ads displayed on our websites and those included within our advertising networks.
The operating margin we realize on revenues generated from ads placed on our websites is significantly higher than the operating margin we realize from revenues generated from those placed on third-party websites. Growth in advertising revenues from our websites has generally exceeded that from third-party websites. This trend has had a positive impact on our operating margins, and we expect that this will continue for the foreseeable future. However, the trend in advertising spend is shifting to mobile devices and other newer advertising formats which generally experience lower margins than those from desktop computers and tablets. We expect this trend to continue to put pressure on our margins.
Our revenues consist of revenues from our Cloud Services segment and from our Digital Media segment. Cloud Services revenues primarily consist of revenues from “fixed” customer subscription revenues and “variable” revenues generated from actual usage of our services. We also generate Cloud Services revenues from IP licensing. Digital Media revenues is primarily derived from advertising revenues and subscription to services and information revenues consisting of fees paid for generating business leads, and licensing and sale of editorial content and trademarks.
Cost of revenues is primarily comprised of costs associated with data and voice transmission, numbers, editorial and production costs, network operations, customer service, online processing fees and equipment depreciation. The increase in cost of revenues for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 was primarily due to an increase in costs associated with businesses acquired in and subsequent to the third quarter 2017 that resulted in additional editorial and production, network operations, and online processing fees.
Our sales and marketing costs consist primarily of internet-based advertising, sales and marketing, personnel costs and other business development-related expenses. Our internet-based advertising relationships consist primarily of fixed cost and performance-based (cost-per-impression, cost-per-click and cost-per-acquisition) advertising relationships with an array of online service providers. Advertising cost for the three months ended September 30, 2018 was $36.3 million (primarily consists of $24.4 million of third-party advertising costs and $10.2 million of personnel costs) compared to 2017 of $35.7 million (primarily consists of $24.1 million of third-party advertising costs and $10.4 million of personnel costs). Advertising cost for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was $111.0 million (primarily consists of $73.2 million of third-party advertising costs and $30.6 million of personnel costs) compared to 2017 of $101.7 million (primarily consists of $67.8 million of third-party advertising costs and $30.5 million of personnel costs). The increase in sales and marketing expenses for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 
Other expense (income), net. Our other expense (income), net is generated primarily from miscellaneous items, gain or losses on currency exchange and gains or losses on investments. Other expense (income), net was $1.2 million and $(3.9) million for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The increase in expense over the prior comparable period is due to increased losses on currency exchange in the current period compared to the prior period’s gains earned related to the sales of Cambridge BioMarketing Group, LLC (“Cambridge”) and j2 Australia Hosting Pty Ltd (dba “Web24”). Other expense (income), net was $6.2 million and $0.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The increase in expense over the prior comparable period is due to a loss on equity securities of $3.7 million partially offset by decreased losses on currency exchange compared to the prior period’s gain related to the sales of Cambridge BioMarketing Group, LLC (“Cambridge”) and j2 Australia Hosting Pty Ltd (dba “Web24”).
the accounting policy is finalized. Therefore, we have included the provisional estimate of GILTI related to current-year operations in its estimated annual effective tax rate only and will be updating the impact and accounting policy as the analysis related to the GILTI provisions is completed. 


item3.txt
Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio. The primary objectives of our investment activities are to preserve our principal while at the same time maximizing yields without significantly increasing risk. To achieve these objectives, we maintain our portfolio of cash equivalents and investments in a mix of instruments that meet high credit quality standards, as specified in our investment policy. Our cash and cash equivalents are not subject to significant interest rate risk due to the short maturities of these instruments. As of September 30, 2018, the carrying value of our cash and cash equivalents approximated fair value. Our return on these investments is subject to interest rate fluctuations.


item4.txt
Item 4.Controls and Procedures


part2.txt
Item 3.Defaults Upon Senior Securities
Item 4.Mine Safety Disclosures


