item1.txt
j2 Global reserves for receivables it may not be able to collect. The reserves for the Company’s Cloud Services segment are typically driven by the volume of credit card declines and past due invoices and are based on historical experience as well as an evaluation of current market conditions. The reserves for the Company’s Digital Media segment are typically driven by past due invoices based on historical experience. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates the adequacy of these reserves. 
The Company has made an accounting policy election to exclude from the measurement of the transaction price all taxes assessed by a governmental authority that are (i) both imposed on and concurrent with a specific revenue-producing transaction and (ii) collected by the Company from a customer.
The Company accounts for its investments in debt securities in accordance with ASC Topic No. 320, Investments - Debt Securities (“ASC 320”). Debt investments are typically comprised of corporate and governmental debt securities. j2 Global determines the appropriate classification of its investments at the time of acquisition and evaluates such determination at each balance sheet date. Trading securities are those investments that the Company intends to sell within a few hours or days and are carried at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses included in investment income. Available-for-sale securities are those investments j2 Global does not intend to hold to maturity and can be sold. Available-for-sale securities are carried at fair value with unrealized gains and losses included in other comprehensive income. Held-to-maturity securities are those investments which the Company has the ability and intent to hold until maturity and are recorded at amortized cost. All debt securities are accounted for on a specific identification basis.
The Company accounts for its investments in equity securities in accordance with ASC Topic No. 321, Investments - Equity Securities (“ASC 321”) which requires the accounting for equity investments (other than those accounted for using the equity method of accounting) generally be measured at fair value for equity securities with readily determinable fair values. For equity securities without a readily determinable fair value that are not accounted for by the equity method, the Company measures the equity security using cost, less impairment, if any, and plus or minus observable price changes arising from orderly transactions in the same or similar investment from the same issuer. Any unrealized gains or losses will be reported in current earnings (see Note 5 - Investments).
j2 Global complies with the provisions of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) ASC Topic No. 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (“ASC 820”), in measuring fair value and in disclosing fair value measurements. ASC 820 provides a framework for measuring fair value and expands the disclosures required for fair value measurements of financial and non-financial assets and liabilities.
Property and equipment are stated at cost. Equipment under capital leases is stated at the present value of the minimum lease payments. Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. The estimated useful lives of property and equipment range from 1 to 10 years. Fixtures, which are comprised primarily of leasehold improvements and equipment under capital leases, are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives or for leasehold improvements, the related lease term, if less. The Company has capitalized certain internal use software and website development costs which are included in property and equipment. The estimated useful life of costs capitalized is evaluated for each specific project and ranges from 1 to 5 years.
liability capped by the contractual maximum of the contingent earn-out obligation. Ultimately, the liability will be equivalent to the amount paid, and the difference between the fair value estimate and the amount paid will be recorded in earnings. The amount paid that is less than or equal to the liability on the acquisition date is reflected as cash used in financing activities in our consolidated statements of cash flows. Any amount paid in excess of the liability on the acquisition date is reflected as cash used in operating activities.
cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the period of adoption. In addition, this ASU provides a practical expedient to lessors to not separate nonlease components from the associated lease components similar to the expedient that is afforded to lessees. However, the lessor practical expedient is limited to circumstances in which the nonlease component or components otherwise would be accounted for under the new revenue guidance and both (1) the timing and pattern of transfer are the same for the nonlease component(s) and associated lease component and (2) the lease component, if accounted for separately, would be classified as an operating lease. This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company expects to adopt these ASUs January 1, 2019 and expects the adoption to have a material effect on its condensed consolidated balance sheet and disclosures. The Company continues to assess the effect of adoption and believes the most significant changes relate to the recognition of new right-of-use assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet for capital and operating leases. The Company has both capital and operating leases, both domestically and internationally, with varying expiration dates through 2025 in the aggregate amount of $80.2 million for the period ended June 30, 2018. Significant changes in leasing activity between now and adoption are not expected. In addition, the Company continues to identify which practical expedients will be elected, if any.
Revenue from subscriptions is earned through the granting of access to, or delivery of, certain data products or services to customers. Subscriptions cover video games and related content, health information, data and other copyrighted material. Revenues under such agreements are recognized over the contract term for use of the service. Revenues are also earned from listing fees, subscriptions to online publications, and from other sources. Subscription revenues are recognized over time.
j2 Global also generates Digital Media revenues through the license of certain assets to clients. Assets are licensed for clients’ use in their own promotional materials or otherwise. Such assets may include logos, editorial reviews, or other copyrighted material. Revenues under such license agreements are recognized over the contract term for use of the asset. Technology assets are also licensed to clients. These assets are recognized over the term of the access period. The Digital Media business also generates other types of revenues, marketing and production services, and from other sources. Such other revenues are generally recognized over the period in which the products or services are delivered. Revenues are no longer generated in 2018 from certain marketing and production services as a result of the sale of certain Digital Media assets during 2017.
The Company’s Cloud Services revenues substantially consist of monthly recurring subscription and usage-based fees, which are primarily paid in advance by credit card. The Company defers the portions of monthly, quarterly, semi-annually and annually recurring subscription and usage-based fees collected in advance of the satisfaction of performance obligations and recognizes them in the period earned. 
Along with our numerous proprietary Cloud Services solutions, the Company also generates revenues by reselling various third-party solutions, primarily through our email security and online backup lines of business. These third-party solutions, along with our proprietary products, allow the Company to offer customers a variety of solutions to better meet their needs. The Company records revenue on a gross basis with respect to reseller revenue because the Company has control of the specified good or service prior to transferring control to the customer. 
The Company satisfies its performance obligations within the Cloud Services segment upon delivery of services to its customers. Payment terms vary by type and location of our customers and the services offered. The term between invoicing and when payment is due is not significant. For certain services and customer types, we require payment before services are delivered to the customer. Due to the nature of the services provided, there are no obligations for returns.
In determining whether products and services are considered distinct performance obligations that should be accounted for separately versus together may require significant judgment. Judgment is also required to determine the standalone selling price for each distinct performance obligation. 
As a practical expedient, the Company has not assessed whether a contract has a significant financing component because the Company expects at contract inception that the period between payment by the customer and the transfer of promised goods or services by the Company to the customer will be one year or less. In addition, the Company has determined that the payment terms that the Company provides to its customers are structured primarily for reasons other than the provision of finance to the Company. The Company typically charges a single upfront amount for the services because other payment terms would affect the nature of the risk assumed by the Company to provide service given the costs of the customer acquisition and the highly competitive and commoditized nature of the business we operate which allows customers to easily move from one provider to another. This additional risk may make it uneconomical to provide the service.
Regardless of the classification of the securities as available-for-sale or held-to-maturity, the Company has assessed each position for impairment. j2 Global regularly reviews and evaluates each investment that has an unrealized loss. An unrealized loss exists when the current fair value of an individual security is less than its amortized cost basis. Unrealized losses that are determined to be temporary in nature are recorded, net of tax, in accumulated other comprehensive income for available-for-sale securities.
For these securities, a critical component of the evaluation for other-than-temporary impairments is the identification of credit impairment, where management does not expect to receive cash flows sufficient to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the security. Credit impairment is assessed using a combination of a discounted cash flow model that estimates the cash flows on the underlying securities and a market comparable method, where the security is valued based upon indications from the secondary market of what discounts buyers demand when purchasing similar securities. The cash flow model incorporates actual cash flows from the securities through the current period and then projects the remaining cash flows using relevant interest rate curves over the remaining term. These cash flows are discounted using a number of assumptions, some of which include prevailing implied credit risk premiums, incremental credit spreads and illiquidity risk premiums, among others.


item2.txt
Assuming a stable or improving economic environment, and subject to our risk factors, we expect the revenue and profits in our Digital Media segment to improve over the next several quarters as we integrate our recent acquisitions and over the longer term as advertising transactions continue to shift from offline to online. The main focus of our advertising programs is to provide relevant and useful advertising to visitors to our websites and those included within our advertising networks, reflecting our commitment to constantly improve their overall web experience. As a result, we expect to continue to take steps to improve the relevance of the ads displayed on our websites and those included within our advertising networks.
The operating margin we realize on revenues generated from ads placed on our websites is significantly higher than the operating margin we realize from revenues generated from those placed on third-party websites. Growth in advertising revenues from our websites has generally exceeded that from third-party websites. This trend has had a positive impact on our operating margins, and we expect that this will continue for the foreseeable future. However, the trend in advertising spend is shifting to mobile devices and other newer advertising formats which generally experience lower margins than those from desktop computers and tablets. We expect this trend to continue to put pressure on our margins.
We anticipate that the stable revenue trend in our Cloud Services segment combined with the improving revenue and profits in our Digital Media segment will result in overall improved revenue and profits for j2 Global on a consolidated basis, excluding the impact of any future acquisitions which can vary dramatically from period to period. 
We expect operating profit as a percentage of revenues to generally decrease in the future primarily due to the fact that revenue with respect to our Digital Media segment (i) is increasing as a percentage of our revenue on a consolidated basis and (ii) has historically operated at a lower operating margin.
Our revenues consist of revenues from our Cloud Services segment and from our Digital Media segment. Cloud Services revenues primarily consist of revenues from “fixed” customer subscription revenues and “variable” revenues generated from actual usage of our services. We also generate Cloud Services revenues from IP licensing. Digital Media revenues is primarily derived from advertising revenues and subscription to services and information revenues consisting of fees paid for generating business leads, and licensing and sale of editorial content and trademarks.
Our general and administrative costs consist primarily of personnel-related expenses, depreciation and amortization, changes in the fair value associated with contingent consideration, share-based compensation expense, bad debt expense, professional fees, severance and insurance costs. The increase in general and administrative expense for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 versus the prior comparable periods was primarily due to additional amortization of intangible assets, depreciation of fixed assets, personnel costs relating to businesses acquired in and subsequent to the second quarter 2017, fair value adjustments to contingent consideration, severance costs associated with acquisitions and professional fees.


item3.txt
Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio. The primary objectives of our investment activities are to preserve our principal while at the same time maximizing yields without significantly increasing risk. To achieve these objectives, we maintain our portfolio of cash equivalents and investments in a mix of instruments that meet high credit quality standards, as specified in our investment policy. Our cash and cash equivalents are not subject to significant interest rate risk due to the short maturities of these instruments. As of June 30, 2018, the carrying value of our cash and cash equivalents approximated fair value. Our return on these investments is subject to interest rate fluctuations.


item4.txt
31.2Rule 13a-14(a) Certification of Principal Financial Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.


part2.txt
Additionally, the tax project initiated by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (“OECD”) on Base Erosion and Profit Sharing (“BEPS”) and other similar initiatives could adversely affect our worldwide effective tax rate. With the finalization of specific actions contained within the OECD’s BEPS study, many OECD countries have acknowledged their intention to implement the actions and update their local tax laws. The extent (if any) to which countries in which we operate adopt and implement these actions could have a material adverse impact on our effective tax rate, income tax expense, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.
Furthermore, much of our Digital Media e-commerce revenue comes from arrangements in which we are paid by retailers to promote their digital product and service offers on our sites. Certain states have implemented regulations that require retailers to collect and remit sales taxes on sales made to residents of such states if a publisher, such as us, that facilitated that sale is a resident of such state. Paid retailers in our marketplace that do not currently have sales tax nexus in any state that subsequently passes similar regulations and in which we have operations, employees or contractors now or in the future, may significantly alter the manner in which they pay us, cease paying us for sales we facilitate for that retailer in such state, or cease using our marketplace, each of which could adversely impact our business, financial condition, and operating results.
We are subject to a variety of new and existing laws and regulations which could subject us to claims, judgments, monetary liabilities and other remedies, and to limitations on our business practices.
The use of consumer data by online service providers and advertising networks is a topic of active interest among federal, state, and international regulatory bodies, and the regulatory environment is unsettled and evolving. Federal, state, and international laws and regulations govern the collection, use, retention, disclosure, sharing, and security of data that we receive from and about our users. Our privacy and cookie policies and practices concerning the collection, use, and disclosure of user data are posted on our websites.


