fls.txt



item1.txt
In the aerospace market, the Company has a long history of using its data visualization technologies to provide high-resolution light-weight flight deck and cabin printers.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, and reflect all adjustments consisting of normal recurring adjustments which, in the opinion of management, are necessary for a fair presentation of the results of the interim periods included herein.
The core principle of ASC Topic 606 is to recognize revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services.
ASC Topic 606 defines a five step process to recognize revenue and requires more judgment and estimates within the revenue recognition process than required under previous U.S. GAAP, including identifying performance obligations in the contract, determining and estimating the amount of any variable consideration to include in the transaction price and allocating the transaction price to each separate performance obligation.
We adopted this standard using the modified retrospective method and have applied the guidance to all contracts within the scope of ASC Topic 606 as of the February 1, 2018 adoption date.
Accordingly, the adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on our revenue recognition and there was no cumulative effective adjustment as of February 1, 2018 as a result of the adoption of ASC Topic 606.
We derive revenue from the sale of (i) hardware including, digital color label printers and specialty OEM printing systems, portable data acquisition systems and airborne printers used in the flight deck and in the cabin of military, commercial and business aircraft, (ii) related supplies required in the operation of the hardware, (iii) repairs and maintenance of equipment and (iv) service agreements.
The majority of our hardware products contain embedded operating systems and data management software which is included in the purchase price of the equipment.
Hardware and software elements are typically delivered at the same time and are accounted for as a single performance obligation for which revenue is recognized at the point in time when ownership is transferred to the customer.
Shipping and handling activities that occur after control over a product has transferred to a customer are accounted for as fulfillment activities rather than performance obligations, as allowed under a practical expedient provided by ASC Topic 606.
Service agreements are purchased separately from the equipment and provide for the right to obtain service and maintenance on the equipment for a period of typically one to two years.
In those instances, in which extended warranty services are separately quoted to the customer, an additional performance obligation is created, and the associated revenue is deferred and recognized as service revenue ratably over the term of the extended warranty period.
The portion of service contracts and extended warranty services agreements that are uncompleted at the end of any reporting period are included in deferred revenue.
The slight decrease in the deferred revenue at July 28, 2018 is primarily due to approximately $403,000 of revenue recognized during the period that was included in the deferred revenue balance at January 31, 2018, offset by cash payments received in advance of satisfying performance obligations.
These costs are deferred and amortized based on the forecasted number of units sold over the estimated benefit term, which is currently estimated to be approximately 10 years.
The balance of the deferred incremental direct contract costs net of accumulated amortization at July 28, 2018 is $967,000 and is reported in other assets in the condensed consolidated balance sheet.
This amount is expected to be amortized over its estimated remaining period of benefit, which we currently estimate to be approximately 8 years.
Generally speaking, the contracts are all individual procurement decisions by the customers and do not include renewal provisions and as such the majority of the contracts have an economic life of significantly less than a year.


item2.txt
Three Months Ended July 28, 2018 vs. Three Months Ended July 29, 2017 Revenue for the second quarter of the current year was $33.8 million, representing a 23.0% increase compared to the previous year second quarter revenue of $27.5 million.
International revenue for the second quarter of the current year was $13.8 million, a 34.0% increase over the previous year’s second quarter and represents 41% of AstroNova’s second quarter’s revenue.
Current year second quarter gross profit was $13.4 million, a 30.6% increase compared to prior year second quarter gross profit of $10.3 million.
Other expense in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 was $0.5 million compared to $16 thousand of other income in the prior year second quarter.
Other income for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 includes foreign exchange gain of $59 thousand and investment income of $68 thousand, offset by interest expense on debt of $82 thousand and other expense of $30 thousand.
Revenue for the first six months of the current year was $65.3 million, representing a 25.7% increase compared to the previous year’s first six months of revenue of $51.9 million.
Supplies revenue in the first half of the current year was $34.6 million, representing an 11.3% increase over the prior year’s first six months revenue of $31.1 million.
The current year increase in supplies revenue is due primarily to the increase in digital color printer supplies product revenue, as well as label and tag revenue in the Product Identification segment.
The Company’s gross profit margin of 39.1% in the current year reflects an increase from the prior year’s first six months gross profit margin of 37.7%.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Employees of the Company delivered 6,076 shares of the Company’s common stock toward the satisfaction of taxes due with respect to vesting of restricted shares.
The shares delivered were valued at an average market value of $19.20 per share and are included with treasury stock in the consolidated balance sheet.


