Item 4.
Controls and Procedures.
The Company maintains controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by it in the reports it files with or submits to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms and to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in such reports is accumulated and communicated to the Company’s management, including the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officers, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Based on an evaluation of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) as of the end of the period covered by this report conducted by the Company’s management, with the participation of the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officers, the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officers concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports it files with or submits to the SEC is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms and to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in such reports is accumulated and communicated to the Company’s management, including the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officers, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
There have been no changes in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting or in other factors that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, internal control over financial reporting during the period covered by this report.
Legal Proceedings.
For information on the Company’s legal proceedings, see Note 8 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors.
There have been no material changes to the Company’s risk factors as disclosed in Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
Note 7 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 to this report is hereby incorporated herein by reference.
Item 6.
Exhibits.
SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
