item1.txt
Prior periods were not retrospectively restated, and accordingly, the consolidated balance sheet as of June 30, 2018, and the condensed consolidated statements of operations for the three and nine months ended March 31, 2018 were prepared using accounting standards that were different than those in effect for the three and nine months ended March 31, 2019.
In January 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update that changes the accounting for financial instruments primarily related to equity investments (other than those accounted for under the equity method of accounting or those that result in consolidation of the investee), financial liabilities under the fair value option, and the presentation and disclosure requirements for financial instruments.
We adopted this update beginning in the first quarter of our fiscal year ending June 30, 2019 on a prospective basis and the adoption had no material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
We adopted this update beginning in the first quarter of our fiscal year ending June 30, 2019 on a retrospective basis and the adoption had no material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
We adopted this update beginning in the first quarter of our fiscal year ending June 30, 2019 on a modified retrospective basis and the adoption had no material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
We adopted this update beginning in the first quarter of our fiscal year ending June 30, 2019 on a prospective basis and the adoption had no material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
In January 2017, the FASB issued an accounting standard update to simplify the subsequent measurement of goodwill by removing the second step of the two-step impairment test, which requires an entity to determine the fair value of assets and liabilities similar to what is required in a purchase price allocation.
We early adopted this update in the first quarter of our fiscal year ending June 30, 2019 on a prospective basis and the adoption had no material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
We adopted this update beginning in the first quarter of our fiscal year ending June 30, 2019 on a prospective basis and the adoption had no material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
Some of the changes include adding a disclosure requirement for significant gains and losses related to changes in the benefit obligation for the period and removing the amounts in accumulated other comprehensive income expected to be recognized as components of net periodic benefit cost over the next fiscal year.
There have been no other material changes to our significant accounting policies in Note 1 “Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018.
The timing of revenue recognition, billings and cash collections may result in accounts receivable, contract assets, and contract liabilities (deferred revenue) on our condensed consolidated balance sheet.
Contract assets primarily relate to the value of products and services transferred to the customer for which the right to payment is not just dependent on the passage of time.
The contract liabilities represent (1) deferred product revenue related to the value of products that have been shipped and billed to customers and for which the control has not been transferred to the customers, and (2) deferred service revenue, which is recorded when we receive consideration, or such consideration is unconditionally due, from a customer prior to transferring services to the customer under the terms of a contract.
For derivative instruments designated and qualifying as cash flow hedges of forecasted foreign currency denominated transactions or debt financing expected to occur within twelve to eighteen months, the effective portion of the gains or losses is reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (“OCI”) and reclassified into earnings in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings.
For derivative contracts executed after adopting the new accounting guidance, the election to include time value for the assessment of effectiveness is made on all forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges.
The assessment effectiveness of options contracts designated as cash flow hedges continue to exclude time value after adopting the new accounting guidance.
As a result, the Company’s deferred tax assets and liabilities were being evaluated to determine if the deferred tax assets and liabilities should be recognized for the basis differences expected to reverse as a result of GILTI provisions that are effective for the Company after the fiscal year ending June 30, 2018, or should the tax on GILTI provisions be recognized as period costs in each year incurred.
The change in contract assets during the nine months ended March 31, 2019 was mainly due to an increase in contract assets of $71.1 million from the Orbotech Acquisition in the third quarter of fiscal year 2019 and $19.4 million of revenue recognized in excess of the amounts billed to the customers, partially offset by $14.7 million of contract assets reclassified to net accounts receivable as our right to consideration for these contract assets became unconditional.
This was partially offset by an increase in contract liabilities of $28.8 million from the Orbotech Acquisition in the third quarter of fiscal year 2019, and the value of products and services billed to customers for which control of the products and service has not transferred to the customers.
The fair value of deferred payments and contingent consideration payable, the majority of which were recorded in connection with business combinations during the three months ended March 31, 2019, were classified as Level 3 and estimated using significant inputs that were not observable in the market.
For additional details, refer to Note 11, “Employee Benefit Plans” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018.
On February 20, 2019, we completed the acquisition of 100% of the outstanding shares of Orbotech for aggregate purchase consideration of approximately $3.26 billion which was paid in part by cash of $1.90 billion, in part by KLA common shares with a fair value of $1.32 billion and the balance by the assumption of stock options and RSUs. Orbotech is a global supplier of yield-enhancing and process-enabling solutions for the manufacture of electronics products.
KLA allocated the purchase price to tangible and identified intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on the preliminary estimates of their estimated fair values, which were determined using generally accepted valuation techniques based on estimates and assumptions made by management at the time of the Orbotech Acquisition and are subject to change during the measurement period which is not expected to exceed one year.
The primary tasks that are required to be completed include validation of business level forecasts, jurisdictional forecasts, customer attrition rates and synergies expected to be derived from the acquisition of Orbotech, including any related tax impacts.
The operating results of Orbotech have been included in our consolidated financial statements for the three and nine months ended March 31, 2019 from the Acquisition Date.
Our statements of operations for the three and nine months ended March 31, 2019 included revenue of $161.3 million and a net loss of $28.7 million from Orbotech.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019 we acquired three privately-held companies primarily to expand our products and services offerings for an aggregate purchase price of $118.0 million, including the fair value of the promise to pay additional consideration of up to $13.0 million contingent on the achievement of certain milestones.
During the three months ended September 30, 2018 we acquired two privately-held companies for an aggregate purchase price of $15.4 million, including the fair value of the promise to pay total additional consideration of up to $6.0 million contingent on the achievement of certain milestones.
Our statements of operations for the three and nine months ended March 31, 2019 included revenues of $2.3 million and $3.1 million, respectively, and net losses of $2.8 million and $3.5 million, respectively, from these privately-held companies.
KLA, in the aggregate for the Orbotech and other fiscal 2019 acquisitions, incurred approximately $37.2 million of acquisition-related costs, which are primarily included within selling, general and administrative expenses in our condensed consolidated statements of operations.
In the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018, we acquired a product line from Keysight Technologies, Inc., a related party, for a total purchase consideration of $12.1 million, of which $5.2 million was allocated to goodwill based on the fair value at the acquisition date.
For additional details, refer to Note 5 “Business Combinations,” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018.
The unaudited pro forma information includes adjustments to amortization and depreciation for intangible assets and property, plant and equipment acquired, adjustments to stock-based compensation expense, the purchase accounting effect on inventory acquired, the purchase accounting effect on deferred revenue, interest expense and amortization of debt issuance costs associated with the Senior Notes financing, and transaction costs.
In assessing the qualitative factors, we considered the impact of key factors, including changes in the industry and competitive environment, market capitalization, stock price, earnings multiples, budgeted-to-actual revenue performance from prior year, gross margin and cash flows from operating activities.
For details of the 2004 Plan refer to Note 8 “Equity and Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plans,” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018.
For details of the special cash dividend, refer to Note 8 “Equity and Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plans,” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019, we completed the acquisition of Orbotech Ltd. As a result of the Orbotech acquisition, we recorded $819.8 million of net deferred tax liabilities primarily on the excess of book basis over the tax basis of acquired intangible assets and undistributed earnings in certain foreign subsidiaries.
In May 2017, Orbotech received an assessment from the Israel Tax Authority (“ITA”) with respect to its fiscal years 2012 through 2014 (the “Assessment”, and the “Audit Period”, respectively), for an aggregate amount of tax against it, after offsetting all NOLs for tax purposes available through the end of 2014, of approximately NIS 218.0 million (approximately $65.0 million as of March 31, 2019), which amount includes related interest and linkage differentials to the Israeli consumer price index (as of date of the Assessment).
We maintain guarantee arrangements available through various financial institutions for up to $45.1 million, of which $38.7 million had been issued as of March 31, 2019, primarily to fund guarantees to customs authorities for value-added tax (“VAT”) and other operating requirements of our subsidiaries in Europe, Israel and Asia.
The authoritative guidance requires companies to recognize all derivative instruments and hedging activities, including foreign currency exchange contracts and interest rate lock agreements, (collectively “derivatives”) as either assets or liabilities at fair value on the condensed consolidated balance sheets.
In accordance with the accounting guidance, we designate foreign currency exchange contracts and interest rate lock agreements as cash flow hedges of certain forecasted foreign currency denominated sales, purchase and spending transactions, and the benchmark interest rate of the corresponding debt financing, respectively.
For more details, refer to Note 16, “Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018.
For derivative contracts executed after adopting the new accounting guidance, the election to include time value for the assessment of effectiveness is made on all forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges.
The assessment of effectiveness of options contracts designated as cash flow hedges continue to exclude time value after adopting the new accounting guidance.
Loss of competitive position in any of the markets we serve, or an inability to sell our products on favorable commercial terms in new markets we may enter, could negatively affect our prices, customer orders, revenues, gross margins and market share, any of which would negatively affect our operating results and financial condition.
Our business, financial condition and results of operations in a reported fiscal period could be materially and adversely affected if we expend significant amounts in supporting an audit or inspection, or defending or settling any purported claims, regardless of their merit or outcomes.
A substantial decline in our stock price, or any other adverse change in market conditions, particularly if such change has the effect of changing one of the critical assumptions or estimates we previously used to calculate the value of our goodwill or intangible assets (and, as applicable, the amount of any previous impairment charge), could result in a change to the estimation of fair value that could result in an additional impairment charge.
If the market value of such investments were to decline, or if we were to have to sell some of our investments under illiquid market conditions, we may be required to recognize an impairment charge on such investments or a loss on such sales, either of which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results.
If we do not effectively develop and manage our outsourcing strategies, if required export and other governmental approvals are not timely obtained, if our third-party service providers do not perform as anticipated, or do not adequately protect our data from cyber-related security breaches, or if there are delays or difficulties in enhancing business processes, we may experience operational difficulties (such as limitations on our ability to ship products), increased costs, manufacturing or service interruptions or delays, loss of intellectual property rights or other sensitive data, quality and compliance issues, and challenges in managing our product inventory or recording and reporting financial and management information, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Mergers and acquisitions and strategic alliances are inherently subject to significant risks, and the inability to effectively manage these risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.
However, an impairment of the fair market value of our investments, even if unrealized, must be reflected in our financial statements for the applicable period and may therefore have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for that period.
Changes to (or revised interpretations or applications of) existing accounting standards or tax rules or the questioning of current or past practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business.
In addition, the passing of the Act in December 2017 caused us to significantly increase our provision for income taxes, which had a material adverse effect on our net income for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018.


item2.txt
Product revenue decreased during the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the three months ended December 31, 2018 and March 31, 2018, primarily due to lower product shipments to customers in the memory business, partially offset by $125.8 million in product revenue from our newly acquired Orbotech business.
Product revenues increased during the nine months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the nine months ended March 31, 2018, primarily due to a strong demand from our customers in the wafer inspection business, $125.8 million in product revenue from our newly acquired Orbotech business, and a favorable impact from the adoption of ASC 606 due to our assessment of timing of transfer of control, partially offset by a lower products shipments to customers in the memory business.
Our gross margin during the three months ended March 31, 2019 decreased compared to the three months ended December 31, 2018 and March 31, 2018, primarily due to a lower revenue volume of products and services and an increase in service and manufacturing costs, partially offset by a favorable mix of products and services sold, as well as the acquisition of Orbotech which historically had lower product gross margins.
Our gross margin during the nine months ended March 31, 2019 decreased compared to the nine months ended March 31, 2018, primarily due to an increase in service and manufacturing costs, a lower revenue volume of products and services, partially offset by a favorable mix of products and services sold, as well as the acquisition of Orbotech which historically had lower product gross margins.
The change in other expense (income), net during the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the three months ended December 31, 2018 was primarily due to a decrease in interest accruals related to uncertain tax positions of $1.3 million partially offset by an increase in interest income of $1.2 million.
The decrease is mainly due to $1.82 billion paid to fund Orbotech and other business acquisitions, stock repurchases of $750.2 million, and cash used for payment of dividends and dividend equivalents of $350.9 million, partially offset by the net proceeds of our 2019 Senior Notes of $1.19 billion and our cash generated from operations and net proceeds from marketable securities transactions.
The total amount of regular quarterly cash dividends and dividend equivalents paid during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 was $113.6 million and $92.1 million, respectively.
For details of the special cash dividend, refer to Note 8 “Equity and Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plans,” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018.
This change was mainly due to $1.82 billion paid to fund Orbotech and other acquisitions, partially offset by cash received from sale and maturity of marketable securities of $679.9 million during the nine months ended March 31, 2019, compared to $215.9 million during the nine months ended March 31, 2018.


item4.txt
Attached as exhibits to this Report are certifications of the CEO and CFO, which are required in accordance with Rule 13a-14 of the Exchange Act. This Controls and Procedures section includes the information concerning the controls evaluation referred to in the certifications, and it should be read in conjunction with the certifications for a more complete understanding of the topics presented.
Our management, including the CEO and CFO, does not expect that our Disclosure Controls or internal control over financial reporting will prevent all error and all fraud.


part2.txt
Many of the risks associated with operating in these industries are comparable to the risks faced by all technology companies, such as the uncertainty of future growth rates in the industries that we serve, pricing trends in the end-markets for consumer electronics and other products (which place a growing emphasis on our customers’ cost of ownership), changes in our customers’ capital spending patterns and, in general, an environment of constant change and development, including decreasing product and component dimensions; use of new materials; and increasingly complex device structures, applications and process steps.
If we fail to appropriately adjust our cost structure and operations to adapt to any of these trends, or, with respect to technological advances, if we do not timely develop new technologies and products that successfully anticipate and address these changes, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.
This concentration increases the impact that future business or technology changes within the foundry industry may have on our business, financial condition and operating results.
Many of our large customers have more aggressive policies regarding engaging alternative, second-source suppliers for the products we offer and, in addition, may seek and, on occasion, receive pricing, payment, intellectual property-related or other commercial terms that may have an adverse impact on our business.
During down cycles in our industry, the financial results of our customers may be negatively impacted, which could result not only in a decrease in, or cancellation or delay of, orders (which are generally subject to cancellation or delay by the customer with limited or no penalty) but also a weakening of their financial condition that could impair their ability to pay for our products or our ability to recognize revenue from certain customers.
Our competitive advantage and future business success depend on our ability to accurately predict evolving industry standards, develop and introduce new products and solutions that successfully address changing customer needs, win market acceptance of these new products and solutions, and manufacture these new products in a timely and cost-effective manner.
Our failure to accurately predict evolving industry standards and develop as well as offer competitive technology solutions in a timely manner with cost-effective products could result in loss of market share, unanticipated costs, and inventory obsolescence, which would adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition.
Loss of competitive position in any of the markets we serve, or an inability to sell our products on favorable commercial terms in new markets we may enter, could negatively affect our prices, customer orders, revenues, gross margins and market share, any of which would negatively affect our operating results and financial condition.
Any such decisions may impact our ability to recognize revenue, including the fiscal period during which such revenue may be recognized, with respect to such products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or stock price.
In the event that we default on our borrowings, these domestic subsidiaries shall be liable for our borrowings, which could disrupt our operations and result in a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or stock price.
Our business, financial condition and results of operations in a reported fiscal period could be materially and adversely affected if we expend significant amounts in defending or settling any purported claims, regardless of their merit or outcomes.
These costs could be substantial and could have an adverse impact upon our business, financial condition and operating results.
As a result, these volume purchase arrangements, while expected to be beneficial to our business over time, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations in near-term periods, including the revenue we can recognize on product sales and therefore our gross margins.
Our business, financial condition and results of operations in a reported fiscal period could be materially and adversely affected if we expend significant amounts in supporting an audit or inspection, or defending or settling any purported claims, regardless of their merit or outcomes.
Any adverse finding resulting from any such audit could lead to penalties (financial or otherwise), termination of funding programs, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from receiving future government funding from the applicable government or government agency, any of which could adversely impact our operating results, financial condition and ability to operate our business.
These expenditures and diversions, as well as an adverse resolution of any such action or proceeding, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
If the market value of such investments were to decline, or if we were to have to sell some of our investments under illiquid market conditions, we may be required to recognize an impairment charge on such investments or a loss on such sales, either of which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results.
The instigation of legal proceedings or claims, our inability to favorably resolve or settle such proceedings or claims, or the determination of any adverse findings against us or any of our employees in connection with such proceedings or claims could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as our business reputation.
If we do not effectively develop and manage our outsourcing strategies, if required export and other governmental approvals are not timely obtained, if our third-party service providers do not perform as anticipated, or do not adequately protect our data from cyber-related security breaches, or if there are delays or difficulties in enhancing business processes, we may experience operational difficulties (such as limitations on our ability to ship products), increased costs, manufacturing or service interruptions or delays, loss of intellectual property rights or other sensitive data, quality and compliance issues, and challenges in managing our product inventory or recording and reporting financial and management information, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Any of such occurrences could result in disruptions to our operations; misappropriation, corruption or theft of confidential information, including intellectual property and other critical data, of KLA, our customers and other business partners; misappropriation of funds and company assets; reduced value of our investments in research, development and engineering; litigation with, or payment of damages to, third parties; reputational damage; costs to comply with regulatory inquiries or actions; data privacy issues; costs to rebuild our internal information systems; and increased cybersecurity protection and remediation costs.
Any of these events could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.
Mergers and acquisitions and strategic alliances are inherently subject to significant risks, and the inability to effectively manage these risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.
We cannot assess the impact that emergency conditions in Israel in the future may have on our business, operations, financial condition or results of operations, but it could be material.
Instability in any region could directly impact our ability to operate our business (or our customers’ ability to operate their businesses), cause us to incur increased costs in transportation, make such transportation unreliable, increase our insurance costs, and cause international currency markets to fluctuate.


