item1.txt
The Company adopted this update beginning in the first quarter of its fiscal year ending June 30, 2018 on a prospective basis and there was no impact of adoption on its condensed consolidated financial statements.
In addition, the new standard requires that reporting companies disclose the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers.
To address the significant implementation requirements of the accounting standard update, the Company has established a revenue project steering committee and cross-functional implementation team for the implementation of the standard, including a review of all significant revenue arrangements to identify any differences in the timing, measurement, presentation of revenue recognition including new disclosure requirements.
•The Company will account for the standard 12-month warranty for a majority of its products that is not separately paid for by the customers as a performance obligation since the Company provides for necessary repairs as well as preventive maintenance services for such products.
The Company will continue to assess the impact of the new standard, including potential changes to the accounting policies, business processes, systems and internal controls over financial reporting and its preliminary assessment of the impact is subject to change.
In January 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update that changes the accounting for financial instruments primarily related to equity investments (other than those accounted for under the equity method of accounting or those that result in consolidation of the investee), financial liabilities under the fair value option, and the presentation and disclosure requirements for financial instruments.
The accounting standard update is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of its fiscal year ending June 30, 2019, and early adoption is permitted.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on its condensed consolidated financial statements.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on its condensed consolidated financial statements.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on its condensed consolidated financial statements.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on its condensed consolidated financial statements.
In January 2017, the FASB issued an accounting standard update to simplify the subsequent measurement of goodwill by removing the second step of the two-step impairment test, which requires an entity to determine the fair value of assets and liabilities similar to what is required in a purchase price allocation.
This standard is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of its fiscal year ending June 30, 2021 and requires a prospective approach to adoption.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on its condensed consolidated financial statements.
The update is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of the Company’s fiscal year ending June 30, 2019 and should be applied prospectively with early adoption permitted as of the beginning of an interim or annual reporting period.
This standard update is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of its fiscal year ending June 30, 2020, and early adoption is permitted.
The Company’s financial assets and liabilities are measured and recorded at fair value, except for its debt and certain equity investments in privately-held companies.
The Company’s non-financial assets, such as goodwill, intangible assets, and land, property and equipment, are recorded at cost and are assessed for impairment when an event or circumstance indicates that an other-than-temporary decline in value may have occurred.
The amounts reclassified out of accumulated OCI related to the Company’s defined benefit pension plans, which were recognized as a component of net periodic cost for the three and six months ended December 31, 2017 were $0.4 million and $0.8 million, respectively.
The amounts reclassified out of accumulated OCI related to the Company’s defined benefit pension plans, which were recognized as a component of net periodic cost for the three and six months ended December 31, 2016 were $0.9 million and $1.3 million, respectively.
The Company performed a qualitative assessment of the goodwill by reporting unit as of November 30, 2017 during the three months ended December 31, 2017 as part of its annual goodwill impairment assessment and concluded that it was more likely than not that the fair value of each of the reporting units exceeded its carrying amount.
In assessing the qualitative factors, the Company considered the impact of key factors, including changes in the industry and competitive environment, market capitalization, stock price, earnings multiples, budgeted-to-actual revenue performance from prior year, gross margin and cash flows from operating activities.
Diluted net income (loss) per share is calculated by using the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period, increased to include the number of additional shares of common stock that would have been outstanding if the shares of common stock underlying the Company’s outstanding dilutive restricted stock units and stock options had been issued.
Income tax effects resulting from changes in tax laws are accounted for by the Company in accordance with the authoritative guidance, which requires that these tax effects be recognized in the period in which the law is enacted and the effects are recorded as a component of provision for income taxes from continuing operations.
As a result, the Company made an additional provision for income tax resulting from the enactment of the Act during the three and six months ended December 31, 2017.
The Act includes significant changes to the U.S. corporate income tax system which reduces the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35.0% to 21.0% as of January 1, 2018; shifts to a modified territorial tax regime which requires companies to pay a transition tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred; and creates new taxes on certain foreign-sourced earnings.
The new taxes for certain foreign-sourced earnings under the Act are effective for the Company after the fiscal year ending June 30, 2018.
•The Company recorded a provisional tax amount of $101.1 million to re-measure certain deferred tax assets and liabilities as a result of the enactment of the Act. The Company is still analyzing certain aspects of the Act and refining the estimate of the expected reversal of its deferred tax balances.
As a result, the Company’s deferred tax assets and liabilities are being evaluated if the deferred tax assets and liabilities should be recognized for the basis differences expected to reverse as a result of GILTI provisions that are effective for the Company after the fiscal year ending June 30, 2018, or should the tax on GILTI provisions be recognized in the period the Act was signed into law.
However, because such matters are subject to many uncertainties, the ultimate outcomes are not predictable, and there can be no assurances that the actual amounts required to satisfy alleged liabilities from the matters described above will not exceed the amounts reflected in the Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements or will not have a material adverse effect on its results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.
In addition, the Company periodically sells certain letters of credit (“LCs”), without recourse, received from customers in payment for goods and services.
The Company maintains guarantee arrangements available through various financial institutions for up to $21.8 million, of which $16.0 million had been issued as of December 31, 2017, primarily to fund guarantees to customs authorities for value-added tax (“VAT”) and other operating requirements of the Company’s subsidiaries in Europe and Asia.
Typically, these obligations arise in connection with contracts and license agreements or the sale of assets, under which the Company customarily agrees to hold the other party harmless against losses arising from, or provides customers with other remedies to protect against, bodily injury or damage to personal property caused by the Company’s products, non-compliance with the Company’s product performance specifications, infringement by the Company’s products of third-party intellectual property rights and a breach of warranties, representations and covenants related to matters such as title to assets sold, validity of certain intellectual property rights, non-infringement of third-party rights, and certain income tax-related matters.
Historically, payments made by the Company under these agreements have not had a material effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
The authoritative guidance requires companies to recognize all derivative instruments and hedging activities, including foreign currency exchange contracts, as either assets or liabilities at fair value on the balance sheet.
In accordance with the guidance, the Company designates foreign currency forward exchange and option contracts as cash flow hedges of certain forecasted foreign currency denominated sales and purchase transactions.
The Company’s service products are an extension of the system product portfolio and provide customers with spare parts and fab management services (including system preventive maintenance and optimization services) to improve yield, increase production uptime and throughput, and lower the cost of ownership.
Since the Company operates in one reportable segment, all financial segment information required by the authoritative guidance can be found in the condensed consolidated financial statements.
The Company’s significant operations outside the United States include manufacturing facilities in China, Germany, Israel and Singapore and sales, marketing and service offices in Japan, the rest of the Asia Pacific region and Europe.
Loss of competitive position in any of the markets we serve, or an inability to sell our products on favorable commercial terms in new markets we may enter, could negatively affect our prices, customer orders, revenues, gross margins and market share, any of which would negatively affect our operating results and financial condition.
In the event that we default on our borrowings, these domestic subsidiaries shall be liable for our borrowings, which could disrupt our operations and result in a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or stock price.
As a result, these volume purchase arrangements, while expected to be beneficial to our business over time, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations in near-term periods, including the revenue we can recognize on product sales and therefore our gross margins.
Our business, financial condition and results of operations in a reported fiscal period could be materially and adversely affected if we expend significant amounts in supporting an audit or inspection, or defending or settling any purported claims, regardless of their merit or outcomes.
A substantial decline in our stock price, or any other adverse change in market conditions, particularly if such change has the effect of changing one of the critical assumptions or estimates we previously used to calculate the value of our goodwill or intangible assets (and, as applicable, the amount of any previous impairment charge), could result in a change to the estimation of fair value that could result in an additional impairment charge.
If the market value of such investments were to decline, or if we were to have to sell some of our investments under illiquid market conditions, we may be required to recognize an impairment charge on such investments or a loss on such sales, either of which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results.
If we do not effectively develop and manage our outsourcing strategies, if required export and other governmental approvals are not timely obtained, if our third-party service providers do not perform as anticipated, or do not adequately protect our data from cyber-related security breaches, or if there are delays or difficulties in enhancing business processes, we may experience operational difficulties (such as limitations on our ability to ship products), increased costs, manufacturing or service interruptions or delays, loss of intellectual property rights or other sensitive data, quality and compliance issues, and challenges in managing our product inventory or recording and reporting financial and management information, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Mergers and acquisitions and strategic alliances are inherently subject to significant risks, and the inability to effectively manage these risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.
However, an impairment of the fair market value of our investments, even if unrealized, must be reflected in our financial statements for the applicable period and may therefore have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for that period.
Changes to (or revised interpretations or applications of) existing accounting standards or tax rules or the questioning of current or past practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business.


item2.txt
Our revenues are driven largely by our customers’ spending on capital equipment and related maintenance services necessary to support key transitions in their underlying product technologies, or to increase their production volumes in response to market demand or expansion plans.
Product revenues increased during the three months ended December 31, 2017 compared to the three months ended December 31, 2016, primarily due to increased investments from our memory customers for next generation technology as well as capacity-related investments.
Product revenues increased during the six months ended December 31, 2017 compared to the six months ended December 31, 2016, primarily due to increased investments from our memory and logic customers for next generation technology as well as capacity-related investments.
Service revenues during the three months ended December 31, 2017 increased compared to each of the three months ended September 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, and service revenues during the six months ended December 31, 2017 increased compared to the six months ended December 31, 2016, primarily as a result of an increase over time in the number of post-warranty systems installed at our customers’ sites over that time period.
Our gross margin increased to 64.4% during the three months ended December 31, 2017, from 63.7% during the three months ended December 31, 2016, primarily due to higher revenue volume of products and services, and a favorable mix of products and services sold, partially offset by a decrease in manufacturing efficiencies.
Our gross margin increased to 64.0% during the six months ended December 31, 2017, from 63.4% during the six months ended December 31, 2016, primarily due to higher revenue volume of products and services, partially offset by a less favorable mix of products and services sold, a decrease in manufacturing efficiencies, and other costs.
Other expense (income), net is comprised primarily of realized gains or losses on sales of marketable securities, gains or losses from revaluations of certain foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities as well as foreign currency contracts, impairments associated with equity investments in privately-held companies and any subsequent recoveries of impaired investments, interest-related accruals (such as interest and penalty accruals related to our tax obligations) and interest income earned on our investment and cash portfolio.
In addition, there will be an increase or decrease in tax expense for the remaining six months of the fiscal year ending June 30, 2018 for changes in uncertain tax positions and items treated as period costs that are not included in the recurring tax rate.
During the three months ended December 31, 2017, our Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.59 per share on our outstanding common stock, which was paid on December 1, 2017 to our stockholders of record as of the close of business on November 15, 2017.
The total amount of regular quarterly cash dividends and dividend equivalents paid during the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 was $92.6 million and $84.5 million, respectively.
As of the declaration date, the total amount of the special cash dividend accrued by us was approximately $2.76 billion, substantially all of which was paid out during the three months ended December 31, 2014, except for the aggregate special cash dividend of $43.0 million that was accrued for the unvested restricted stock units.
During the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, the total special cash dividends paid with respect to vested restricted stock units were immaterial.
During the six months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, the total special cash dividends paid with respect to vested restricted stock units were $6.2 million and $7.7 million, respectively.
Although cash requirements will fluctuate based on the timing and extent of these factors, we believe that cash generated from operations, together with the liquidity provided by existing cash and cash equivalents balances and our $750.0 million Revolving Credit Facility, will be sufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements associated with working capital needs, capital expenditures, cash dividends, stock repurchases and other contractual obligations, including repayment of outstanding debt, for at least the next 12 months.


part2.txt
Many of the risks associated with operating in these industries are comparable to the risks faced by all technology companies, such as the uncertainty of future growth rates in the industries that we serve, pricing trends in the end-markets for consumer electronics and other products (which place a growing emphasis on our customers’ cost of ownership), changes in our customers’ capital spending patterns and, in general, an environment of constant change and development, including decreasing product and component dimensions; use of new materials; and increasingly complex device structures, applications and process steps.
If we fail to appropriately adjust our cost structure and operations to adapt to any of these trends, or, with respect to technological advances, if we do not timely develop new technologies and products that successfully anticipate and address these changes, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.
This concentration increases the impact that future business or technology changes within the foundry industry may have on our business, financial condition and operating results.
Many of our large customers have more aggressive policies regarding engaging alternative, second-source suppliers for the products we offer and, in addition, may seek and, on occasion, receive pricing, payment, intellectual property-related or other commercial terms that may have an adverse impact on our business.
During down cycles in our industry, the financial results of our customers may be negatively impacted, which could result not only in a decrease in, or cancellation or delay of, orders (which are generally subject to cancellation or delay by the customer with limited or no penalty) but also a weakening of their financial condition that could impair their ability to pay for our products or our ability to recognize revenue from certain customers.
Any of these factors could negatively impact our business, operating results and financial condition.
Our competitive advantage and future business success depend on our ability to accurately predict evolving industry standards, develop and introduce new products and solutions that successfully address changing customer needs, win market acceptance of these new products and solutions, and manufacture these new products in a timely and cost-effective manner.
Our failure to accurately predict evolving industry standards and develop as well as offer competitive technology solutions in a timely manner with cost-effective products could result in loss of market share, unanticipated costs, and inventory obsolescence, which would adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition.
The termination of any such collaboration, or delays caused by disputes or other unanticipated challenges that may arise in connection with any such collaboration, could significantly impair our research and development efforts, which could have a material adverse impact on our business and operations.
Loss of competitive position in any of the markets we serve, or an inability to sell our products on favorable commercial terms in new markets we may enter, could negatively affect our prices, customer orders, revenues, gross margins and market share, any of which would negatively affect our operating results and financial condition.
Any such decisions may impact our ability to recognize revenue, including the fiscal period during which such revenue may be recognized, with respect to such products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or stock price.
In the event that we default on our borrowings, these domestic subsidiaries shall be liable for our borrowings, which could disrupt our operations and result in a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or stock price.
Our business, financial condition and results of operations in a reported fiscal period could be materially and adversely affected if we expend significant amounts in defending or settling any purported claims, regardless of their merit or outcomes.
These costs could be substantial and could have an adverse impact upon our business, financial condition and operating results.
As a result, these volume purchase arrangements, while expected to be beneficial to our business over time, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations in near-term periods, including the revenue we can recognize on product sales and therefore our gross margins.
Our business, financial condition and results of operations in a reported fiscal period could be materially and adversely affected if we expend significant amounts in supporting an audit or inspection, or defending or settling any purported claims, regardless of their merit or outcomes.
Any adverse finding resulting from any such audit could lead to penalties (financial or otherwise), termination of funding programs, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from receiving future government funding from the applicable government or government agency, any of which could adversely impact our operating results, financial condition and ability to operate our business.
If any of these financial institutions experiences financial difficulties or is otherwise unable to honor the terms of our factoring or deposit arrangements, we may experience material financial losses due to the failure of such arrangements or a lack of access to our funds, any of which could have an adverse impact upon our operating results, financial condition and cash flows.
These expenditures and diversions, as well as an adverse resolution of any such action or proceeding, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
If the market value of such investments were to decline, or if we were to have to sell some of our investments under illiquid market conditions, we may be required to recognize an impairment charge on such investments or a loss on such sales, either of which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results.
If we do not effectively develop and manage our outsourcing strategies, if required export and other governmental approvals are not timely obtained, if our third-party service providers do not perform as anticipated, or do not adequately protect our data from cyber-related security breaches, or if there are delays or difficulties in enhancing business processes, we may experience operational difficulties (such as limitations on our ability to ship products), increased costs, manufacturing or service interruptions or delays, loss of intellectual property rights or other sensitive data, quality and compliance issues, and challenges in managing our product inventory or recording and reporting financial and management information, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Any of such occurrences could result in disruptions to our operations; misappropriation, corruption or theft of confidential information, including intellectual property and other critical data, of KLA-Tencor, our customers and other business partners; misappropriation of funds and company assets; reduced value of our investments in research, development and engineering; litigation with, or payment of damages to, third parties; reputational damage; costs to comply with regulatory inquiries or actions; data privacy issues; costs to rebuild our internal information systems; and increased cybersecurity protection and remediation costs.
Any disruptions or difficulties that may occur in connection with our ERP system or other systems (whether in connection with the regular operation, periodic enhancements, modifications or upgrades of such systems or the integration of our acquired businesses into such systems) could adversely affect our ability to complete important business processes, such as the evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Any of these events could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.
Mergers and acquisitions and strategic alliances are inherently subject to significant risks, and the inability to effectively manage these risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.
Such instability could directly impact our ability to operate our business (or our customers’ ability to operate their businesses) in the affected region, cause us to incur increased costs in transportation, make such transportation unreliable, increase our insurance costs, and cause international currency markets to fluctuate.
However, an impairment of the fair market value of our investments, even if unrealized, must be reflected in our financial statements for the applicable period and may therefore have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for that period.
The trading price of our common stock could continue to be highly volatile and fluctuate widely in response to various factors, including without limitation conditions in the semiconductor industry and other industries in which we operate, fluctuations in the global economy or capital markets, our operating results or other performance metrics, or adverse consequences experienced by us as a result of any of the risks described elsewhere in this Item 1A.


