Unless indicated otherwise, references in this report to the "Company," "we," "us" and "our" refer collectively to Leidos and its consolidated subsidiaries. 
Business Environment and Trends
U.S. Government Markets
During the quarter ended March 30, 2018, we generated approximately 85% of our total revenues from contracts with the U.S. government. Accordingly, our business performance is affected by the overall level of U.S. government spending, especially on national security, homeland security and intelligence, and the alignment of our service and product offerings and capabilities with current and future budget priorities of the U.S. government.
On March 23, 2018, Congress passed and the President signed into law the Omnibus Appropriation Bill thereby funding the federal government through the end of the 2018 government fiscal year ("GFY"). All 12 Appropriation bills were funded and no federal department or agency is now operating under a continuing resolution. The budget legislation passed earlier in the year suspended budget caps and included a two-year budget agreement that provides $300 billion in sequestration relief for defense and non-defense spending. Defense programs will see additional funding of $80 billion and $85 billion in GFY 2018 and GFY 2019, respectively, and non-defense spending will increase by $63 billion and $68 billion in GFY 2018 and GFY 2019, respectively, over the caps established in the Budget Control Act of 2011. The legislation also suspends the debt ceiling until March 2019. Congress is now addressing GFY 2019 spending and the passage of all 12 Appropriation bills for the year beginning October 1, 2018.
International Markets
Lockheed Martin Transaction
We incurred integration costs of $11 million and $18 million during the three months ended March 30, 2018, and March 31, 2017, respectively, and expect to incur additional integration costs in connection with the Transactions through fiscal 2020.
Key Performance Measures
Results of Operations
The decrease in revenues in constant currency(1) for the three months ended March 30, 2018, was 5.7% as compared to an actual decrease in revenues of 5.3%. There was a foreign currency benefit attributable to our U.K. business in the Civil segment as compared to the same period in the prior year.
Segment and Corporate Results
The decrease in revenues for the three months ended March 30, 2018, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017, was primarily attributable to timing of revenue recognition on certain contracts, the completion of certain contracts and net volume decreases, partially offset by revenues from new awards.
The increase in operating income for the three months ended March 30, 2018, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017, was due to net profit write-downs in the prior year quarter and stronger program performance in the current year quarter.
The increase in operating income for the three months ended March 30, 2018, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017, was primarily due to stronger program performance and lower intangible asset amortization during the prior year quarter.
The decrease in revenues for the three months ended March 30, 2018, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017, was primarily attributable to timing of revenue recognition and the completion of certain contracts, partially offset by a net increase in program volumes.
The decrease in operating income for the three months ended March 30, 2018, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017, was primarily due to higher profit write-ups in the prior year quarter, partially offset by lower intangible asset amortization.
Non-Operating Expense, net
Non-operating expense, net of $34 million for the three months ended March 30, 2018, was consistent as compared to $33 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017.
For the three months ended March 30, 2018, our effective tax rate was 18.4% compared to 31.5% for the three months ended March 31, 2017. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act's reduction of the U.S. federal statutory tax rate.
We received net bookings worth an estimated $2.5 billion during the three months ended March 30, 2018, compared to $1.7 billion for the three months ended March 31, 2017.
As of March 30, 2018, we had $215 million in cash and cash equivalents. In addition, we have a secured revolving credit facility which can provide up to $750 million in additional borrowing, if required. During the three months ended March 30, 2018, there were no borrowings outstanding under the credit facility and we were in compliance with related financial covenants.
At March 30, 2018, and December 29, 2017, we had outstanding debt of $3.1 billion. During the three months ended March 30, 2018, and March 31, 2017, we made $15 million and $20 million, respectively, of required quarterly payments on our senior secured term loans. The notes outstanding as of March 30, 2018, contain financial covenants and customary restrictive covenants. We were in compliance with all covenants as of March 30, 2018. 
We paid dividends of $52 million and $50 million during the three months ended March 30, 2018, and March 31, 2017, respectively.
For the next 12 months, we anticipate that we will be able to meet our liquidity needs, including servicing our debt, through cash generated from operations, available cash balances and, if needed, borrowings from our revolving credit facility. 
Net cash used in financing activities increased $13 million for the three months ended March 30, 2018, when compared to the prior year quarter, primarily due to the repurchase of shares of common stock under the share repurchase program for an aggregate purchase price of $10 million.
Commitments and Contingencies
Critical Accounting Policies
Revenue Recognition
Our revenues from contracts with customers are from offerings including cybersecurity; data analytics; enterprise IT modernization; operations and logistics; sensors, collection and phenomenology; software development; and systems engineering, primarily with the U.S. government and its agencies. We also serve various state and local governments, foreign governments and U.S. commercial customers. 
Most of our contracts comprise multiple promises including the design and build of software-based systems, integration of hardware and software solutions, running and maintaining of IT infrastructure and procurement services. In all cases, we assess if the multiple promises should be accounted for as separate performance obligations or combined into a single performance obligation. We generally separate multiple promises in a contract as separate performance obligations if those promises are distinct, both individually and in the context of the contract. If multiple promises in a contract are highly interrelated or comprise a series of distinct services performed over time, they are combined and accounted for as a single performance obligation.
Our contracts with the U.S. government often contain options to renew existing contracts for an additional period of time (generally a year at a time) under the same terms and conditions as the original contract, and generally do not provide the customer any material rights under the contract. We account for renewal options as separate contracts when they include distinct goods or services at standalone selling prices.
Contracts with the U.S. government are subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulation ("FAR") and priced on an estimated or actual costs of providing the goods or services. The FAR provides guidance on types of costs that are allowable in establishing prices for goods and services provided to the U.S. government and its agencies. Each contract is competitively priced and bid separately. Pricing for non-U.S. government agencies and commercial customers is based on specific negotiations with each customer. We exclude any taxes collected or imposed when determining the transaction price.
We recognize revenue on our services contracts primarily over time as there is continuous transfer of control to the customer over the duration of the contract as we perform the promised services. For U.S. government contracts, continuous transfer of control to the customer is evidenced by clauses in the contract that allow the customer to unilaterally terminate the contract for convenience, pay for costs incurred plus a reasonable profit and take control of any work-in-process. Similarly, for non-U.S. government contracts, the customer typically controls the work-in-process as evidenced by rights to payment for work performed to date plus a reasonable profit to deliver products or services that do not have an alternate use to us. In certain product sales, where the products have an alternate use, we recognize revenue at a point-in-time when the Customer takes control of the asset usually denoted by possession and legal title.
For a discussion of these items, see "Note 2–Accounting Standards" of the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements contained within this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
In February 2018, our Board of Directors authorized a new share repurchase program of up to 20 million shares of our outstanding common stock. The shares may be repurchased from time to time in one or more open market repurchases or privately negotiated transactions, including accelerated share repurchase transactions. The actual timing, number and value of shares repurchased under the program will depend on a number of factors, including the market price of our common stock, general market and economic conditions, applicable legal requirements, compliance with the terms of our outstanding indebtedness and other considerations. There is no assurance as to the number of shares that will be repurchased, and the repurchase program may be suspended or discontinued at any time at our discretion. This share repurchase authorization replaces the previous share repurchase authorization announced in December 2013. 
