The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements also include the balances of all voting interest entities in which Leidos has a controlling voting interest (“subsidiaries”) and a variable interest entity ("VIE") in which Leidos is the primary beneficiary. The consolidated balances of the Company’s VIE are not material to the Company’s unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for the periods presented. Intercompany accounts and transactions between consolidated companies have been eliminated in consolidation. 
In May 2014, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2014-09 (ASC 606) and related amendments, which superseded all prior revenue recognition methods and industry-specific guidance. The core principle of ASC 606 is that an entity should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of control for promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. In applying the revenue principles, an entity is required to identify the contract(s) with a customer, identify the performance obligations, determine the transaction price, allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations and recognize revenue when the performance obligation is satisfied (i.e., either over time or point in time). ASC 606 further requires that companies disclose sufficient information to enable users of financial statements to understand the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. 
ASC 606 provides companies an option of two transition methods, the full retrospective method, in which case the standard would be applied to each prior reporting period presented and the cumulative effect of applying the standard would be recognized at the earliest period shown, or the modified retrospective method, in which case the cumulative effect of applying the standard would be recognized at the date of initial application. The ASU is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017. 
Effective December 30, 2017 (beginning of fiscal year 2018), the Company adopted the requirements of ASC 606 using the modified retrospective method. The guidance was not applied to contracts that were complete at December 30, 2017, and the comparative information for the prior fiscal year has not been retrospectively adjusted.  
The adoption of ASC 606 did not have a material impact on the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements. The Company recorded a $1 million decrease to its beginning accumulated deficit as the cumulative impact of adoption of the new revenue standard. The primary impact of the new standard was on certain of the Company’s units-of-delivery contracts, on which the Company previously recognized revenue at a point in time and under ASC 606 are recognized using an over-time model. The adoption of ASC 606 did not have a significant impact on the Company’s revenue recognition policy as revenues on the substantial majority of the Company's contracts continue to be recognized over time. 
In adopting ASC 606, the Company elected to use certain practical expedients permitted by the standard including using the portfolio approach where contracts with similar characteristics were assessed collectively to evaluate risk over the impact of ASC 606. The Company also elected to adopt the right-to-invoice practical expedient on certain cost-reimbursable contracts where the Company recognizes revenues as it is contractually able to invoice the customer based on the control transfered to the customer.
In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-12, which simplifies the application of hedge accounting and improves the financial reporting of hedging relationships to better portray the economic results of an entity's risk management activities. The ASU is effective for public companies for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018, and should be applied on a modified retrospective basis. Early adoption is permitted. 
The Company early adopted the provisions of ASU 2017-12 using the modified retrospective method in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, and recorded a $3 million increase to accumulated other comprehensive income and a corresponding increase to beginning accumulated deficit for the cumulative ineffectiveness gains related to the cash flow hedges. 
The Company early adopted the provisions of ASU 2018-02 in the first quarter of 2018 (applied in the period of adoption) and recorded a $6 million increase to accumulated other comprehensive income and a corresponding increase to beginning accumulated deficit to reflect the changes in the corporate tax rate as a result of the Tax Act. As a result of the adoption of ASU 2018-02, the Company's policy to release income tax effects in accumulated other comprehensive income is to be consistent with the underlying book method.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, which supersedes the current lease guidance under ASC 840 and makes several changes, such as requiring an entity to recognize a right-of-use asset and corresponding lease obligation on the balance sheet, classified as financing or operating, as appropriate. The update is effective for public companies for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018, and should be adopted under the modified retrospective approach. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is in the process of evaluating the provisions of ASU 2016-02 and its impact on the Company's condensed consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows.
The Company's revenues from contracts with customers are from offerings including cybersecurity; data analytics; enterprise IT modernization; operations and logistics; sensors, collection and phenomenology; software development; and systems engineering, primarily with the U.S. government and its agencies. The Company also serves various state and local governments, foreign governments and U.S. commercial customers. 
Most of the Company's contracts comprise multiple promises including the design and build of software-based systems, integration of hardware and software solutions, running and maintaining of IT infrastructure and procurement services. In all cases, the Company assesses if the multiple promises should be accounted for as separate performance obligations or combined into a single performance obligation. The Company generally separates multiple promises in a contract as separate performance obligations if those promises are distinct, both individually and in the context of the contract. If multiple promises in a contract are highly interrelated or comprise a series of distinct services performed over time, they are combined and accounted for as a single performance obligation.
The Company's contracts with the U.S. government often contain options to renew existing contracts for an additional period of time (generally a year at a time) under the same terms and conditions as the original contract, and generally do not provide the customer any material rights under the contract. The Company accounts for renewal options as separate contracts when they include distinct goods or services at standalone selling prices.
Contracts with the U.S. government are subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulation ("FAR") and priced on an estimated or actual costs of providing the goods or services. The FAR provides guidance on types of costs that are allowable in establishing prices for goods and services provided to the U.S. government and its agencies. Each contract is competitively priced and bid separately. Pricing for non-U.S. government agencies and commercial customers is based on specific negotiations with each customer. The Company excludes any taxes collected or imposed when determining the transaction price.
The Company allocates the transaction price of a contract to its performance obligations in the proportion of its respective standalone selling prices. The standalone selling price of the Company's performance obligations is generally based on an expected cost-plus margin approach, in accordance with the FAR. For certain product sales, the Company uses prices from other standalone sales. Substantially none of the Company's contracts contain a significant financing component, which would require an adjustment to the transaction price of the contract.
The Company recognizes revenue on its services contracts primarily over time as there is continuous transfer of control to the customer over the duration of the contract as the Company performs the promised services. For U.S. government contracts, continuous transfer of control to the customer is evidenced by clauses in the contract that allow the customer to unilaterally terminate the contract for convenience, pay for costs incurred plus a reasonable profit and take control of any work-in-process. Similarly, for non-U.S. government contracts, the customer typically controls the work-in-process as evidenced by rights to payment for work performed to date plus a reasonable profit to deliver products or services that do not have an alternate use to the Company. In certain product sales, where the products have an alternate use, the Company recognizes revenue at a point-in-time when the Customer takes control of the asset usually denoted by possession and legal title.
The impact on diluted EPS attributable to Leidos common stockholders is calculated using the Company's statutory tax rate.
During the quarter ended March 30, 2018, revenue recognized from performance obligations satisfied in previous periods was $34 million. The change in estimates primarily relate to revision of variable consideration including award fees and revisions to estimates at completion adjustments resulting from change in contract scope or due to true-up of contract estimates at the end of contract performance.
The Company's cash equivalents are primarily comprised of investments in several large institutional money market funds and bank deposits, with original maturity of three months or less. The Company includes outstanding payments within "Cash and cash equivalents" and correspondingly increases "Accounts payable and accrued liabilities" on the condensed consolidated balance sheets. At March 30, 2018, and December 29, 2017, the Company included $124 million and $169 million, respectively, of outstanding payments within "Cash and cash equivalents."
The Company's receivables include amounts billed and currently due from customers, amounts billable where the right to consideration is unconditional and amounts unbilled. Amounts billable and unbilled amounts are recognized at estimated realizable value and consist of costs and fees, substantially all of which are expected to be billed and collected generally within one year. Unbilled amounts also include rate variances that are billable upon negotiation of final indirect rates with the DCAA. 
When events or conditions indicate that amounts outstanding from customers may become uncollectible, an allowance is estimated and recorded. 
The changes reflected above were primarily due to the Company's units of delivery contracts, which were recognized at a point in time under ASC 605 and are recognized using an over-time model under ASC 606.
As of March 30, 2018, the Company had $8.9 billion of remaining performance obligations, which are expected to be recognized as revenue in the amounts of $5.3 billion, $1.2 billion and $2.4 billion for the remainder of fiscal 2018, fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2020 and thereafter, respectively. 
The increase in "Contract assets - current" was primarily due to the timing of billings and revenue recognized on certain contracts. The increase also relates to project assets on certain contracts. The increase in "Contract liabilities- current" was primarily due to advance payments received on a certain contract.
During the quarter ended March 30, 2018, the Company recognized revenue of $55 million relating to amounts that were included as a contract liability at December 30, 2017.
During the quarter ended March 30, 2018, the Company recognized $3 million of amortization related to its transition costs and project assets. The Company did not recognize any impairment losses on contract assets for the quarter ended March 30, 2018.
On July 24, 2015, the Company completed the sale of its equity interests in Plainfield Renewable Energy Holdings LLC ("Plainfield") for an aggregate consideration of $102 million, subject to certain adjustments and contingent earn-out payments. The consideration received by the Company at closing consisted of a cash payment of $29 million and a secured promissory note for $73 million, net of discount (the “Note”). The Note is payable semi-annually with a final lump sum due in July 2018. The Company collected $6 million of principal and interest during the quarter ended March 31, 2017. 
In January 2018, the Company entered into negotiations with the equity owners of Plainfield regarding the Plainfield Recapitalization Plan ("Plan"). The proposed Plan envisions raising new equity combined with reduction of Plainfield's debt. The net realizable value of the Note, at December 29, 2017, was estimated to be approximately $40 million, compared to its carrying value of $73 million, including accrued interest. As a result, the Company recorded a $33 million impairment of its Note during the quarter ended December 29, 2017, which was presented within "Other income, net" in the Company's condensed consolidated statements of income.
As of March 30, 2018, Leidos has recognized a total of $55 million of expense in connection with these restructuring activities. These restructuring expenses have been recorded within Corporate and presented separately on the condensed consolidated statements of income. 
The Company expects the remainder of the restructuring liability to be substantially settled within one year.
The accounting guidance for fair value measurements requires that the Company maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs in determining fair value. The accounting guidance provides for the irrevocable option to elect, on a contract-by-contract basis, to measure certain financial assets and liabilities at fair value at inception of the contract and record any subsequent changes in fair value in earnings. The Company has not made fair value option elections on any of its financial assets and liabilities. 
The Company's derivatives consisted of the fair value interest rate swaps on its $450 million, fixed rate 4.45% senior secured notes maturing in December 2020 and cash flow interest rate swaps on $1.6 billion of the Company's variable rate senior secured term loans (see "Note 13–Derivative Instruments"). The fair value of the fair value interest rate swaps and cash flow interest rate swaps is determined based on observed values for underlying interest rates on the LIBOR yield curve and the underlying interest rate, respectively (Level 2 inputs). 
The carrying amounts of the Company’s financial instruments, other than derivatives, which include cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued expenses, are reasonable estimates of their related fair values. The carrying value of the Company's notes receivable of $63 million as of March 30, 2018, and December 29, 2017, approximates fair value as the stated interest rates within the agreements are consistent with the current market rates used in notes with similar terms in the market (Level 2 inputs). 
As of March 30, 2018, and December 29, 2017, the fair value of debt was $3.2 billion and the carrying amount was $3.1 billion (see "Note 14–Debt"). The fair value of long-term debt is determined based on current interest rates available for debt with terms and maturities similar to the Company’s existing debt arrangements (Level 2 inputs). 
As of March 30, 2018, the Company had a real estate property measured at fair value (Level 2) (see "Note 12–Property, Plant and Equipment"). The Company did not have any assets or liabilities measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis using Level 3 inputs at March 30, 2018.
Accumulated goodwill impairment losses were $369 million and $117 million within the Health and Civil segments, respectively, at March 30, 2018, December 29, 2017, and December 30, 2016.
Goodwill is tested for impairment at the beginning of the fourth quarter and during interim periods whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. There were no goodwill impairments during the quarters ended March 30, 2018, and March 31, 2017.
Amortization expense related to intangible assets was $50 million and $69 million for the quarter ended March 30, 2018, and March 31, 2017, respectively. 
Program and contract intangible assets are amortized over their respective estimated useful lives in proportion to the pattern of economic benefit based on expected future discounted cash flows. Customer relationships and backlog intangible assets are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. Software and technology intangible assets, are amortized either on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives or over their respective estimated useful lives in proportion to the pattern of economic benefit based on expected future discounted cash flows, as deemed appropriate. 
During the quarter ended March 30, 2018, the Company determined that the carrying amount of a real estate property may not be recoverable and as a result recorded an impairment charge of $7 million, which was recorded within Corporate.
The Company manages its risk to changes in interest rates through the use of derivative instruments. The Company does not hold derivative instruments for trading or speculative purposes. For fixed rate borrowings, the Company uses variable interest rate swaps, effectively converting fixed rate borrowings to variable rate borrowings. These swaps are designated as fair value hedges. For variable rate borrowings, the Company uses fixed interest rate swaps, effectively converting a portion of the variable interest rate payments to fixed interest rate payments. These swaps are designated as cash flow hedges.
The Company has interest rate swap agreements to hedge the fair value of the $450 million fixed rate 4.45% senior secured notes maturing in December 2020 (the “Notes”). The objective of these instruments is to hedge the Notes against changes in fair value due to the variability in the six-month LIBOR rate (the benchmark interest rate). Under the terms of the interest rate swap agreements, the Company will receive semi-annual interest payments at the coupon rate of 4.45% and will pay variable interest based on the six-month LIBOR rate.
The interest rate swaps were accounted for as a fair value hedge of the Notes and qualified for the shortcut method of hedge accounting, which allows for the assumption of no ineffectiveness reported in earnings. The resulting changes in the fair value of the interest rate swaps are fully offset by the changes in the fair value of the underlying debt (the hedged item) (See "Note 14–Debt"). 
The fair value of the Notes is stated at an amount that reflects changes in the six-month LIBOR rate subsequent to the inception of the interest rate swaps through the reporting date. 
The Company expects to reclassify gains of $11 million from accumulated other comprehensive income into earnings during the next 12 months. 
In March 2018, Leidos amended the terms of its senior secured $1.1 billion Term Loan B, due August 2023. As a result, the margin on Term Loan B was reduced by 25 basis points to 1.75%. The repricing of the term loan became effective March 15, 2018.
The interest rate on the Company's senior secured term loans is determined based on the LIBOR rate plus a margin. The margin for the Term Loan A loans ranges from 1.50% to 2.00%, depending on the Company's senior secured leverage ratio, and is computed on a quarterly basis. At March 30, 2018, the current margin on Term Loan A and Term Loan B was 1.75%.
The Company has a revolving credit facility providing up to $750 million in secured borrowing capacity at interest rates determined based upon the LIBOR rate plus a margin that is subject to step-down provisions based on the Company's senior secured leverage ratio. The maturity date of this credit facility is August 2022. As of March 30, 2018, and December 29, 2017, there were no borrowings outstanding under the credit facility. 
The senior secured term loans and notes, unsecured notes and revolving credit facility are fully and unconditionally guaranteed and contain certain customary restrictive covenants, including among other things, restrictions on the Company's ability to create liens and enter into sale and leaseback transactions under certain circumstances. The Company was in compliance with all covenants as of March 30, 2018.
Reclassifications from unrecognized gain on derivative instruments are recorded in "Interest expense, net" in the Company's condensed consolidated statements of income.
The restricted cash is recorded within "Inventory, prepaid expenses and other current assets" in the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheets.
The restricted cash primarily comprises advances from customers that are restricted as to use for certain expenditures related to that customer's contract.
For the quarter ended March 30, 2018, the effective tax rate was 18.4% compared to 31.5% for the quarter ended March 31, 2017. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to the Tax Act's reduction of the U.S. federal statutory rate.
The Company defines its reportable segments based on the way the chief operating decision maker ("CODM"), currently its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, manages the operations of the Company for purposes of allocating resources and assessing performance.
Asset information by segment is not a key measure of performance used by the CODM. 
On November 10, 2015, MSA received a final decision by the Department of Energy ("DoE") contracting officer for the Mission Support Contract concluding that certain payments to MSA by the DoE for the performance of IT services by Lockheed Martin Services, Inc. ("LMSI") under a subcontract to MSA constituted alleged affiliate fees in violation of the FAR. Lockheed Martin Integrated Technology LLC (now known as Leidos Integrated Technology LLC) is a member entity of MSA. Subsequent to the contracting officer's final decision, MSA, LMSI, and Lockheed Martin Corporation received notice from the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of Washington that the U.S. government had initiated a False Claims Act investigation into the facts surrounding this dispute, and each of MSA, LMSI and Lockheed Martin Corporation have produced information in response to Civil Investigative Demands from the U.S. Attorney's Office. In addition, the U.S. Attorney's office has advised that a parallel criminal investigation is open, although no subjects or targets of the investigation have been identified.
In 2003, the Company entered into an FFP contract with the Hellenic Republic of Greece to provide a Command, Control, Communications, Coordination and Integration System. The Greek government disputed the contract balance owed to the Company and has not paid the Company's final invoice. In 2013, the Company received an arbitral award by the International Chamber of Commerce for €39 million or $48 million, which has not been satisfied. In January 2017, the U.S. District Court granted an order to enforce the arbitration award and entered judgment in the Company's favor, converting the award to U.S. dollars in the amount of $63 million. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit subsequently ruled that the district court judgment should instead reflect the currency in which it was originally awarded. Separately, the Greek government sought to annul the award through separate litigation in the Greek courts; however, on July 27, 2017, the Athens Court of Appeals issued a decision rejecting the government's position. Based on the complex nature of this contractual situation and the difficulties encountered to date, significant uncertainties exist and the Company is unable to reliably estimate the ultimate outcome. 
On September 29, 2017, the federal trial court in the Eastern District of Texas entered a final judgment in the VirnetX v. Apple case referred to as the Apple I case. The court found that Apple willfully infringed the VirnetX patents at issue in the Apple I case and awarded enhanced damages, bringing the total award against Apple to over $343 million in pre-interest damages. The court subsequently awarded an additional sum of over $96 million for costs, attorneys' fees, and interest, bringing the total award to VirnetX in the Apple I case to over $439 million. Apple has filed an appeal of the judgment in the Apple I case with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. 
The Company does not have any assets or liabilities recorded in connection with this matter as of March 30, 2018.
The Company has outstanding letters of credit of $93 million as of March 30, 2018, principally related to performance guarantees on contracts. The Company also has outstanding surety bonds with net exposure of $137 million, principally related to performance and subcontractor payment bonds on the Company's contracts. The outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds have various terms with the majority expiring over the next four fiscal years.
On January 24, 2018, the Company entered into a lease agreement with its current lessor for office space in a building to be constructed which will function as the Company's new corporate headquarters in Reston, Virginia. The Company will occupy the space for an initial term of 148 months and rent expense will be $11 million for the first lease year, with an annual rent expense increase of 2.5%. The Company currently expects construction to be completed and to take occupancy of the building by April 1, 2020, at which point the Company's lease agreements for its current corporate headquarters will terminate.
In April 2018, the Company made a required debt prepayment of $10 million on its senior secured term loans. The prepayment was a result of the annual excess cash flow calculation clause in the Company's credit agreements. 
On April 27, 2018, Leidos and Plainfield entered into an amendment to the Note, allowing Plainfield to defer the principal and accrued interest payments due until the earlier of May 31, 2018, or the date Plainfield successfully closes on a refinancing agreement with a third party. 
Item 1A. Risk Factors.
