Unless indicated otherwise, references in this report to the "Company," "we," "us" and "our" refer collectively to Leidos and its consolidated subsidiaries. 
Business Environment and Trends 
U.S. Government Markets
During the three and six months ended June 29, 2018, we generated approximately 85% of our total revenues from contracts with the U.S. government. Accordingly, our business performance is affected by the overall level of U.S. government spending, especially on national security, homeland security and intelligence, and the alignment of our service and product offerings and capabilities with current and future budget priorities of the U.S. government.
On March 23, 2018, Congress passed and the President signed into law the Omnibus Appropriations Bill thereby funding the federal government through the end of the 2018 government fiscal year ("GFY"). All 12 Appropriations bills were funded and no federal department or agency is now operating under a continuing resolution. The appropriations legislation passed earlier in the year suspended budget caps and included a two-year budget agreement that provides $300 billion in sequestration relief for defense and non-defense spending. Defense programs will see additional funding of $80 billion and $85 billion in GFY 2018 and GFY 2019, respectively, and non-defense spending will increase by $63 billion and $68 billion in GFY 2018 and GFY 2019, respectively, over the caps established in the Budget Control Act of 2011. The legislation also suspends the debt ceiling until March 2019. Congress is now addressing GFY 2019 spending and the passage of all 12 Appropriations bills for the year beginning October 1, 2018.
International Markets
Sales to customers in international markets represented approximately 9% of total revenues for both the three and six months ended June 29, 2018. Our international customers include foreign governments and their agencies, primarily located in the United Kingdom and Australia. Our international business increases our exposure to international markets and the associated international regulatory and geopolitical risks.
Lockheed Martin Transaction
We incurred integration costs of $7 million and $22 million during the three and six months ended June 29, 2018, respectively, and $16 million and $34 million during the three and six months ended June 30, 2017, respectively. 
Key Performance Measures
Results of Operations
The decrease in revenues in constant currency(1) for the three and six months ended June 29, 2018, was 1.8% and 3.7%, respectively, as compared to actual decreases in revenues of 1.6% and 3.5%, respectively. The foreign currency benefit was mainly attributable to our U.K. business in the Civil segment.
Segment and Corporate Results
The decrease in revenues for the six months ended June 29, 2018, as compared to the six months ended June 30, 2017, was primarily attributable to the completion of certain contracts, timing of revenue recognition on certain contracts and net volume decreases, partially offset by new awards and improved program performance.
The increase in operating income for the three and six months ended June 29, 2018, as compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2017, was due to lower intangible asset amortization, improved program performance and lower general and administrative expenses, partially offset by completed contracts.
The decrease in revenues for the three and six months ended June 29, 2018, as compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2017, was primarily attributable to the completion and reduced scope of certain contracts and a net decrease in program volumes, partially offset by new awards and the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates due to the movement of the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the British pound.
The decrease in operating income for the three months ended June 29, 2018, as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2017, was primarily due to higher profit write-ups in the prior year quarter, reduced scope and the completion of certain contracts, partially offset by lower amortization and a decrease in bad debt expense.
The increase in operating income for the six months ended June 29, 2018, as compared to the six months ended June 30, 2017, was primarily due to lower amortization, a decrease in bad debt expense and an increase in new awards, partially offset by reduced scope in the current year and higher profit write-ups in the prior year on certain contracts.
The decrease in revenues for the three and six months ended June 29, 2018, as compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2017, was primarily attributable to the completion of certain contracts, partially offset by net volume increases. 
The decrease in operating income for the three and six months ended June 29, 2018, as compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2017, was primarily due to the completion of certain contracts and higher intangible asset amortization, partially offset by net volume increases.
The decrease in operating loss for the three months ended June 29, 2018, as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2017, was primarily attributable to lower integration and restructuring costs of $14 million.
Non-Operating Expense, net
Non-operating expense, net of $34 million and $68 million for the three and six months ended June 29, 2018, respectively, was consistent with the three and six months ended June 30, 2017, of $31 million and $64 million, respectively.
We received net bookings worth an estimated $3.4 billion and $5.9 billion during the three and six months ended June 29, 2018, respectively, compared to $2.7 billion and $4.4 billion for the three and six months ended June 30, 2017, respectively.
As of June 29, 2018, we had $303 million in cash and cash equivalents. In addition, we have a secured revolving credit facility which can provide up to $750 million in additional borrowing, if required. During the six months ended June 29, 2018, there were no borrowings outstanding under the credit facility and we were in compliance with related financial covenants.
At June 29, 2018, and December 29, 2017, we had outstanding debt of $3.1 billion. We made required quarterly payments on our senior secured term loans of $16 million and $31 million during the three and six months ended June 29, 2018, respectively, and $21 million and $41 million during the three and six months ended June 30, 2017, respectively. In April 2018, we made a required debt prepayment of $10 million on our senior secured term loans. The prepayment was a result of the annual excess cash flow calculation clause in our credit agreements. In addition to the required payments on our term loans, we prepaid $25 million during the three months ended June 30, 2017. The notes outstanding as of June 29, 2018, contain financial covenants and customary restrictive covenants. We were in compliance with all covenants as of June 29, 2018. 
We paid dividends of $51 million and $103 million during the three and six months ended June 29, 2018, respectively, and $52 million and $102 million during the three and six months ended June 30, 2017, respectively.
For the next 12 months, we anticipate that we will be able to meet our liquidity needs, including servicing our debt, through cash generated from operations, available cash balances and, if needed, borrowings from our revolving credit facility. 
Net cash provided by operating activities increased $105 million for the three months ended June 29, 2018, when compared to the prior year quarter, primarily due to the favorable timing of working capital changes including improved collections of receivables and lower payments for taxes, integration and restructuring costs, partially offset by lower advance payments from customers and higher interest payments. 
Net cash used in investing activities increased $4 million for the three months ended June 29, 2018, when compared to the prior year quarter, primarily due to proceeds from the sale of a building in the prior year quarter partially offset by lower purchases of property, plant and equipment. 
Net cash used in financing activities for the three and six months ended June 29, 2018, increased $80 million and $93 million, respectively, when compared to the prior year, primarily due to the repurchase of stock under the share repurchase program for an aggregate purchase price of $90 million and $100 million, respectively, lower debt payments of $20 million and $25 million, respectively, and cash paid of $23 million related to a tax indemnification liability. This was partially offset by a reduction in tax withholdings related to the vesting of stock awards.
Commitments and Contingencies
Critical Accounting Policies
Revenue Recognition
Our revenues from contracts with customers are from offerings including cybersecurity; data analytics; enterprise IT modernization; operations and logistics; sensors, collection and phenomenology; software development; and systems engineering, primarily with the U.S. government and its agencies. We also serve various state and local governments, foreign governments and U.S. commercial customers. 
Most of our contracts comprise multiple promises including the design and build of software-based systems, integration of hardware and software solutions, running and maintaining of IT infrastructure and procurement services. In all cases, we assess if the multiple promises should be accounted for as separate performance obligations or combined into a single performance obligation. We generally separate multiple promises in a contract as separate performance obligations if those promises are distinct, both individually and in the context of the contract. If multiple promises in a contract are highly interrelated or comprise a series of distinct services performed over time, they are combined and accounted for as a single performance obligation.
Our contracts with the U.S. government often contain options to renew existing contracts for an additional period of time (generally a year at a time) under the same terms and conditions as the original contract, and generally do not provide the customer any material rights under the contract. We account for renewal options as separate contracts when they include distinct goods or services at standalone selling prices.
Contracts with the U.S. government are subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulation ("FAR") and priced on estimated or actual costs of providing the goods or services. The FAR provides guidance on types of costs that are allowable in establishing prices for goods and services provided to the U.S. government and its agencies. Each contract is competitively priced and bid separately. Pricing for non-U.S. government agencies and commercial customers is based on specific negotiations with each customer. We exclude any taxes collected or imposed when determining the transaction price.
We recognize revenue on our service based contracts primarily over time as there is continuous transfer of control to the customer over the duration of the contract as we perform the promised services. For U.S. government contracts, continuous transfer of control to the customer is evidenced by clauses in the contract that allow the customer to unilaterally terminate the contract for convenience, pay for costs incurred plus a reasonable profit and take control of any work-in-process. Similarly, for non-U.S. government contracts, the customer typically controls the work-in-process as evidenced by rights to payment for work performed to date plus a reasonable profit to deliver products or services that do not have an alternate use to us. Anticipated losses on service based contracts are recognized as incurred. In certain product sales, where the products have an alternate use, we recognize revenue at a point in time when the customer takes control of the asset usually denoted by possession and legal title.
For a discussion of these items, see "Note 2–Accounting Standards" of the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements contained within this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
