 Item 1.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
TRANSACT TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
See notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
TRANSACT TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
See notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
TRANSACT TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
See notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
TRANSACT TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
See notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
TRANSACT TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
See notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
TRANSACT TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1.
Basis of presentation
The accompanying unaudited financial statements of TransAct Technologies Incorporated (“TransAct”, the “Company”, “we”, “us”, or “our”) have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S.
GAAP”) for interim financial information.
Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by U.S. GAAP to be included in full year financial statements.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments considered necessary for a fair statement of the results for the periods presented have been included and are of a normal recurring nature.
The December 31, 2018 Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet data was derived from audited financial statements, but does not include all disclosures required by U.S. GAAP.
These interim financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2018 included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K.
The financial position and results of operations of our U.K. subsidiary are measured using local currency as the functional currency.
Assets and liabilities of such subsidiary have been translated at the end of period exchange rates, and related revenues and expenses have been translated at the exchange rate as of the date the transaction was recognized, with the resulting translation gain or loss recorded in “Accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax”, in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and Condensed Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity.
Transaction gains and losses are included in “Other, net” in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income.
The results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the full year.
Disaggregation of revenue
The following table disaggregates our revenue by market-type, as we believe it best depicts how the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of our revenue and cash flows are affected by economic factors.
Sales and usage-based taxes are excluded from revenues.
Contract balances
Remaining performance obligations
Remaining performance obligations represent the transaction price of firm orders for which a good or service has not been delivered to our customer.
As of March 31, 2019, the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations was $5.1 million.
The Company expects to recognize revenue on $4.3 million of its remaining performance obligations within the next 12 months, $0.7 million within the next 24 months and the balance of these remaining performance obligations within the next 36 months.
4.
Accrued product warranty liability
We generally warrant our products for up to 24 months and record the estimated cost of such product warranties at the time the sale is recorded.
Estimated warranty costs are based upon actual past experience of product repairs and the related estimated cost of labor and material to make the necessary repairs.
As of March 31, 2019, $199 thousand of the accrued product warranty liability were classified as current in "Accrued liabilities" in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and the remaining $54 thousand was classified as non-current in "Other liabilities".
5.
Earnings per share
The computation of diluted earnings per share excludes the effect of the potential exercise of stock awards, including stock options and restricted stock units, when the average market price of the common stock is lower than the exercise price of the related stock award during the period.
These outstanding stock awards are not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the effect would be anti-dilutive.
For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, there were 540 thousand and 147 thousand, respectively, of potentially dilutive shares consisting of stock awards that were excluded from the calculation of earnings per diluted share.
For the three months ended March 31, 2019, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.09 per share, totaling $668 thousand, which was paid on March 15, 2019 to common shareholders of record at the close of business on February 20, 2019.
For the three months ended March 31, 2018, dividends declared and paid totaled $673 thousand, or $0.09 per share.
ASU 2016-02, “Leases”, which was codified in, and is referred to in this Report as, ASC 842, became effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018.
The adoption requires a modified retrospective transition approach, applying the new standard to all leases existing at the date of initial application.
An entity may choose to use either (1) its effective date or (2) the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented in the financial statements as its date of initial application.
The Company has elected to adopt the standard using the effective date, January 1, 2019, as its date of initial application.
Consequently, financial information will not be updated, and the disclosures required under the new standard will not be provided for dates and periods before January 1, 2019.
The new standard requires lessees to apply a dual approach, classifying leases as either finance or operating leases based on the principle of whether or not the lease is effectively a financed purchase by the lessee.
This classification will determine whether lease expense is recognized based on an effective interest method or on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease, respectively.
A lessee is also required to record a right-of-use asset and a lease liability for all leases with a term of greater than 12 months regardless of their classification.
Leases with a term of 12 months or less will be accounted for similar to existing guidance for operating leases today.
If risks and rewards are conveyed without the transfer of control, the lease is treated as financing.
If the lessor does not convey risks and rewards or control, the lease is treated as operating.
We have elected certain of the practical expedients available under ASC 842 upon adoption.
We have applied the practical expedient which allows prospective transition to ASC 842 on January 1, 2019.
Under this transition practical expedient, we did not reassess lease classification, embedded leases or initial direct costs.
We have applied the practical expedient for short-term leases.
We have lease agreements that include lease and non-lease components, and we have not elected the practical expedients to combine these components for any of our leases.
The adoption of ASC 842 had no effect on our Consolidated Statement of Income or Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
Upon adoption of ASC 842, we recorded a $3.7 million right-of-use asset and a $3.9 million lease liability.
The adoption of the new standard had no impact on retained earnings.
We enter into lease agreements for the use of real estate space and certain other equipment under operating leases and we have no financing leases.
We determine if an arrangement contains a lease at inception.
Our leases are included in Right of use assets and Lease liabilities in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Right of use assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
Lease right of use assets and liabilities are recognized at the commencement date of the lease based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term.
As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, the Company determines its incremental borrowing rate by using the rate of interest that the Company would have to pay to borrow on a collateralized basis over a similar term, an amount equal to the lease payments in a similar economic environment.
Our lease right of use assets exclude lease incentives.
Our leases have remaining lease terms of one to eight years, some of which include options to extend.
The majority of our leases with options to extend provide for extensions of up to five years with the ability to terminate the lease within one year.
The exercise of lease renewal options is at our sole discretion and our lease right of use assets and liabilities reflect only the options we are reasonably certain that we will exercise.
Lease expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Operating lease expense for the quarter ended March 31, 2019 was $237 thousand.
We recorded an income tax provision for the first quarter of 2019 of $115 thousand at an effective tax rate of 13.4%, compared to an income tax provision during the first quarter of 2018 of $178 thousand at an effective tax rate of 20.7%.
The effective tax rate for the first quarter of 2019 was lower as it included the foreign-derived intangible income (“FDII”) deduction under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Reform Act”).
The FDII deduction was not included in the effective tax rate for the first quarter of 2018 as the interpretive guidance for the deduction was not yet released.
We are subject to U.S. federal income tax, as well as income tax in certain U.S. state and foreign jurisdictions.
We have substantially concluded all U.S. federal, state and local income tax, and foreign tax regulatory examination matters through 2014.
However, our federal tax returns for the years 2015 through 2017 remain open to examination.
Various U.S. state and foreign tax jurisdiction tax years remain open to examination as well, but we believe that any additional assessment would be immaterial to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
As of March 31, 2019, we had $105 thousand of total gross unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would favorably affect the effective income tax rate in any future periods.
We expect that $25 thousand of the $105 thousand of unrecognized tax benefits will reverse in 2019 upon the expiration of the statute of limitations.
We recognize interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions in the income tax provision reported as "Deferred tax assets" in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
As of March 31, 2019, we had $20 thousand of accrued interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions.
The Company maintains a valuation allowance against certain deferred tax assets where realization is not certain.
 Item 1.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
The Company may, in the ordinary course of business, become a party to litigation involving collection matters, contract claims and other legal proceedings relating to the conduct of its business.
As of March 31, 2019, we are unaware of any legal proceedings pending or threatened against the Company that management believes are likely to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.
 Item 1A.
RISK FACTORS
Information regarding risk factors appears under Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
There have been no material changes from the risk factors previously disclosed in that Annual Report on Form 10-K.
The risks factors described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K are not the only risks facing our Company.
Additional risks and uncertainties, not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial, also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or future results.
