PART II.
OTHER INFORMATION
 Item 1.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
The Company may, in the ordinary course of business, become a party to litigation involving collection matters, contract claims and other legal proceedings relating to the conduct of its business.
As of September 30, 2019, we are unaware of any legal proceedings pending or threatened against the Company that management believes are likely to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.
 Item 1A.
RISK FACTORS
Information regarding risk factors appears under Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
There have been no material changes from the risk factors previously disclosed in that Annual Report on Form 10-K, except as amended and supplemented by the additional risk factors below.
The risks described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, and the additional risk factors below are not the only risks facing our Company.
Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or future results.
The United Kingdom’s anticipated withdrawal from the European Union may have a negative effect on global economic conditions, financial markets and our business, including our U.K. subsidiary.
In 2016, the United Kingdom (“U.K.”) voted to depart from the European Union (“E.U.”), commonly known as “Brexit” and subsequently notified the European Council of its intention to leave the E.U.
The U.K. is currently negotiating the terms of Brexit, the negotiation period of which has now been extended up to January 31, 2020, unless further extension is agreed to by the parties.
We have taken certain actions in response to Brexit and in anticipation of E.U.
legal requirements and the U.K.’s separation from the E.U.
The potential impact from Brexit on us and on our results of operations is unclear.
The actual effects of Brexit, which may be negative for our business, will depend upon many factors, including, but not limited to, the final results of the Brexit negotiations and whether the U.K. departs the E.U.
with or without a withdrawal agreement.
As of September 30, 2019, we do not, however, expect Brexit to have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations as only 10% of our total revenues for both the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 are attributable to our U.K. operations.
However, we cannot predict the direction or outcome Brexit-related matters and negotiations may take, or the impact that Brexit may have on our European operations, including our U.K. subsidiary.
Material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting have been identified, and if we are unable to implement and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, or our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide an unqualified report thereon, we could be materially adversely affected.
Material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting existed as of September 30, 2019 regarding our internal controls over user access to ensure appropriate segregation of duties and to adequately restrict user access to appropriate personnel.
Specifically, the provisioning and user recertification controls are not designed to ensure users maintain proper segregation of duties and therefore could have inappropriate access rights.
Additionally, we identified a material weakness in controls over key spreadsheets supporting our accounting records.
Specifically, we did not design adequate controls to address the completeness and accuracy of information included in key spreadsheets.
As a result of these material weaknesses, management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of December 31, 2018.
Unless and until these material weaknesses have been remediated or should new material weaknesses arise or be discovered in the future, a material misstatement could occur and go undetected in our interim or annual consolidated financial statements.
As a result, we may experience delays in fulfilling our reporting obligations or complying with the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, among other federal regulations, which could result in investigations and sanctions by regulatory authorities, including, but not limited to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), and may result in defaults or accelerations under our credit facility in the event that we are unable to timely file reports with the SEC, to the extent that in such an event, we are unable to obtain waivers from our lender.
Any of these results could adversely affect our business and the value of our common stock.
Item 2.
UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS
ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES
 Item 3.
DEFAULTS UPON SENIOR SECURITIES
None.
 Item 4.
MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES
Not applicable.
 Item 5.
OTHER INFORMATION
None.
Item 6.
EXHIBITS
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
