A strong foundation of manufacturing and technology. We invest in manufacturing technologies and do most of our manufacturing in-house. This strategic decision to directly control our manufacturing helps ensure a consistent supply of products for our customers and also allows us to invest in technology that differentiates the features of our products. We have focused on creating a competitive manufacturing cost advantage by investing in our advanced analog 300-millimeter capacity, which has about a 40% cost advantage per unpackaged chip over 200-millimeter. To strengthen this advantage, we are planning our next phase of 300-millimeter capacity expansion as 300-millimeter wafers will continue to support the majority of our Analog growth. 
Broad portfolio of differentiated analog and embedded processing semiconductors. Our customers need multiple chips for their systems. The breadth of our portfolio means we can meet more of these needs than our competitors can, which gives us access to more customers and the opportunity to sell more products and generate more revenue per customer system. We invest more than $1 billion each year to develop new products for our portfolio, which includes tens of thousands of products. 
Broadest reach of market channels. Customers often begin their initial product selection process and design-in journey on our website, and the breadth of our portfolio attracts more customers to our website than any of our competitors’ websites. Our web presence, combined with our global sales force that is also greater in size than those of our competitors, are advantages that give us unique access to about 100,000 customers designing TI semiconductors into their end products. 
Our strategic focus, and where we invest the majority of our resources, is on Analog and Embedded Processing, with a particular emphasis on designing and selling those products into the industrial and automotive markets, which we believe represent the best growth opportunities. Analog and embedded processing products sold into industrial and automotive markets provide long product life cycles, intrinsic diversity and less capital-intensive manufacturing, which we believe offer stability, profitability and strong cash generation. This business model is the foundation of our capital management strategy, which is based on our belief that free cash flow growth, especially on a per-share basis, is important for maximizing shareholder value over the long term. We also believe that free cash flow will be valued only if it is productively invested in the business or returned to shareholders. 
The combined effect of these sustainable competitive advantages is that over time we have gained market share in Analog and Embedded Processing and have grown free cash flow. Our business model puts us in a unique class of companies with the ability to grow, generate cash and return that cash to shareholders. 
Our segments represent groups of similar products that are combined on the basis of similar design and development requirements, product characteristics, manufacturing processes and distribution channels, and how management allocates resources and measures results. See Note 1 to the financial statements for more information regarding our segments. 
All dollar amounts in the tables are stated in millions of U.S. dollars. 
Our first-quarter revenue was $3.59 billion, net income was $1.22 billion and earnings per share (EPS) were $1.26. 
In our core businesses, Analog revenue declined 2% and Embedded Processing declined 14% from the same quarter a year ago. 
Our cash flow from operations of $7.2 billion for the trailing 12 months again underscored the strength of our business model. Free cash flow for the trailing 12 months was $6.0 billion and represents 38.4% of revenue. This reflects the quality of our product portfolio, as well as the efficiency of our manufacturing strategy, including the benefit of 300-millimeter Analog production. 
We have returned $8.0 billion to owners in the past 12 months through stock repurchases and dividends. Our strategy is to return all our free cash flow to shareholders. Over the last 12 months, our dividends represented 45% of free cash flow, underscoring their sustainability. 
We continue to expect our annual operating tax rate to be about 16% in 2019. 
For an explanation of free cash flow and the term “annual operating tax rate,” see the Non-GAAP financial information section. 
Revenue of $3.59 billion decreased $195 million, or 5%, due to lower revenue from Embedded Processing and Analog. 
Gross profit of $2.26 billion was down $186 million, or 8%, due to lower revenue and reduced factory loadings. As a percentage of revenue, gross profit decreased to 62.9% from 64.6%. 
Operating profit was $1.38 billion, or 38.4% of revenue, compared with $1.55 billion, or 40.9% of revenue. 
Interest and debt expense of $38 million increased $15 million due to the issuance of additional long-term debt. 
Other revenue decreased by $17 million, and operating profit decreased by $12 million. 
Accounts receivable were $1.44 billion, an increase of $233 million compared with the end of 2018. Days sales outstanding at the end of the first quarter of 2019 were 36 compared with 29 at the end of 2018. 
Inventory was $2.13 billion, a decrease of $86 million from the end of 2018. Days of inventory at the end of the first quarter of 2019 were 144 compared with 152 at the end of 2018. 
Our primary source of liquidity is cash flow from operations. Additional sources of liquidity are cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and a variable-rate, revolving credit facility. Cash flows from operating activities for the first three months of 2019 and 2018 were $1.11 billion. 
Our revolving credit facility is with a consortium of investment-grade banks and allows us to borrow up to $2 billion until March 2024. This credit facility also serves as support for the issuance of commercial paper. As of March 31, 2019, our credit facility was undrawn, and we had no commercial paper outstanding. 
Investing activities for the first three months of 2019 provided $1.17 billion compared with $266 million in the year-ago period. Capital expenditures were $251 million compared with $189 million in the year-ago period and were primarily for semiconductor manufacturing equipment in both periods. We had sales of short-term investments, net of purchases, that provided cash proceeds of $1.44 billion compared with $459 million in the year-ago period. 
Financing activities for the first three months of 2019 used $998 million compared with $1.32 billion in the year-ago period. In 2019, we received net proceeds of $743 million from the issuance of fixed-rate, long-term debt. Dividends paid were $724 million compared with $611 million in the year-ago period, reflecting an increase in the dividend rate, partially offset by fewer shares outstanding. We used $1.15 billion to repurchase 11.7 million shares of our common stock compared with $873 million used in the year-ago period to repurchase 8.2 million shares. Employee exercises of stock options provided cash proceeds of $151 million compared with $178 million in the year-ago period. 
We had $3.72 billion of cash and cash equivalents and $366 million of short-term investments as of March 31, 2019. We believe we have the necessary financial resources and operating plans to fund our working capital needs, capital expenditures, dividend and debt-related payments, and other business requirements for at least the next 12 months. 
We believe that free cash flow and the associated ratios provide insight into our liquidity, our cash-generating capability and the amount of cash potentially available to return to shareholders, as well as insight into our financial performance. These non-GAAP measures are supplemental to the comparable GAAP measures. 
Reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP measures is provided in the table below. 
See Note 2 to the financial statements for detailed information regarding the status of new accounting and reporting standards. 
ITEM 4. Controls and procedures 
An evaluation as of the end of the period covered by this report was carried out under the supervision and with the participation of management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934). Based upon that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that those disclosure controls and procedures were effective. In addition, there has been no change in our internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) that occurred during the period covered by this report that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. 
ITEM 1A. Risk factors 
ITEM 2. Unregistered sales of equity securities and use of proceeds 
The following table contains information regarding our purchases of our common stock during the quarter. 
All open-market purchases during the quarter were made under the authorization from our board of directors to purchase up to $6.0 billion of additional shares of TI common stock announced September 21, 2017. On September 20, 2018, our board of directors authorized the purchase of an additional $12.0 billion of our common stock. 
In addition to open-market purchases, 403,016 shares of common stock were surrendered by employees to satisfy tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted stock units. 
As of March 31, 2019, this amount consisted of the remaining portion of the $6.0 billion authorized in September 2017 and the $12.0 billion authorized in September 2018. No expiration date has been specified for these authorizations.
