1. Description of business, including segment and geographic area information 
Our centralized manufacturing and support organizations, such as facilities, procurement and logistics, provide support to our operating segments, including those in Other. Costs incurred by these organizations, including depreciation, are charged to the segments on a per-unit basis. Consequently, depreciation expense is not an independently identifiable component within the segments’ results and, therefore, is not provided. 
The following geographic area information includes revenue based on product shipment destination. The revenue information is not necessarily indicative of the geographic area in which the end applications containing our products are ultimately consumed because our products tend to be shipped to the locations where our customers manufacture their products. Specifically, many of our products are shipped to our customers in China who may include these parts in the manufacture of their own end products, which they may in turn export to their customers around the world. 
Revenue from products shipped into China, including Hong Kong, was $1.7 billion and $1.6 billion in the second quarters of 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $3.3 billion and $3.1 billion in the first six months of 2018 and 2017, respectively. 
2. Basis of presentation and significant accounting policies and practices 
Revenue from sales of our products that is subject to inventory consignment agreements is recognized at a point in time, when the customer or distributor pulls product from consignment inventory that we store at designated locations. Transfer of control occurs at that point, when title and risk of loss transfers and the customer or distributor becomes obligated to pay for the products pulled from inventory. Until the products are pulled for use or sale by the customer or distributor, we retain control over the products’ disposition, including the right to pull back or relocate the products. 
The amount of revenue recognized is adjusted based on allowances, which are prepared on a portfolio basis using a most likely amount methodology based on analysis of historical data, current economic conditions and contractual terms. These allowances, which are not material, generally include adjustments for pricing arrangements, product returns and incentives. The length of time between invoicing and payment is not significant under any of our payment terms. In instances where the timing of revenue recognition differs from the timing of invoicing, we have determined our contracts generally do not include a significant financing component. 
In addition, we record allowances for accounts receivable that we estimate may not be collected. We monitor collectability of accounts receivable primarily through review of accounts receivable aging. When collection is at risk, we assess the impact on amounts recorded for bad debts and, if necessary, record a charge in the period such determination is made. 
We recognize shipping fees, if any, received from customers in revenue. We include shipping and handling costs in COR. The majority of our customers pay these fees directly to third parties.  
Unvested share-based payment awards that contain non-forfeitable rights to receive dividends or dividend equivalents, such as our restricted stock units (RSUs), are considered to be participating securities and the two-class method is used for purposes of calculating EPS. Under the two-class method, a portion of Net income is allocated to these participating securities and, therefore, is excluded from the calculation of EPS allocated to common stock, as shown in the table below.  
Potentially dilutive securities representing 5 million and 6 million shares of common stock that were outstanding during the second quarters of 2018 and 2017, and during the first six months of 2018 and 2017, respectively, were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per common share for these periods because their effect would have been anti-dilutive. 
In connection with the issuance of long-term debt, we may use financial derivatives such as treasury-rate lock agreements that are recognized in AOCI and amortized over the life of the related debt. The results of these derivative transactions have not been material. 
We do not use derivatives for speculative or trading purposes. 
The fair values of our derivative financial instruments were not material as of June 30, 2018. Our investments in cash equivalents, short-term investments and certain long-term investments, as well as our deferred compensation liabilities, are carried at fair value. The carrying values for other current financial assets and liabilities, such as accounts receivable and accounts payable, approximate fair value due to the short maturity of such instruments. The carrying value of our long-term debt approximates the fair value as measured using broker-dealer quotes, which are Level 2 inputs. See Note 4 for a description of fair value and the definition of Level 2 inputs. 
This standard provides a single set of guidelines for revenue recognition to be used across all industries and requires additional disclosures. We adopted Accounting Standards Codification Topic 606 (ASC 606) as of January 1, 2018, using the modified retrospective transition method applied only to contracts that were not completed as of the adoption date. The reported results for 2018 reflect the application of the new accounting guidance, while the reported results for prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with our historical accounting under ASC 605, Revenue Recognition (ASC 605). 
The time frame between when the customer places an order for products and when it is shipped is less than 12 months. Generally, we invoice customers for payment upon shipment or when goods are pulled from consignment inventory, which results in an unconditional right to consideration. Our contract assets are primarily related to our rights to consideration for satisfied or partially satisfied performance obligations on our royalty agreements for which payment has not been received as of the reporting date.  
We recognized an increase to opening retained earnings of $206 million, net of taxes, as of January 1, 2018, due to the cumulative impact of adopting ASC 606, with the impact primarily related to our fixed payment patent licensing agreements that were not completed as of the adoption date. A contract asset of $283 million and deferred tax liabilities of $55 million were recorded as of January 1, 2018, related to the transition period adjustments.  
Occasionally, as of the end of a reporting period, some of the performance obligations associated with contracts will have been unsatisfied or only partially satisfied. In accordance with the practical expedients available in the guidance, we do not disclose the value of unsatisfied performance obligations for contracts with an original expected duration of one year or less. Similarly, we do not disclose information for variable-rate consideration on our sales-based or usage-based royalties for our patent licenses. 
As of June 30, 2018, we had contract assets of $275 million. During the six months ended June 30, 2018, our contract assets were reduced by $8 million, due to $16 million of cash received offset by $8 million of income recognized. 
This standard requires all leases that have a term of over 12 months to be recognized on the balance sheet with the liability for lease payments and the corresponding right-of-use asset initially measured at the present value of amounts expected to be paid over the term. Recognition of the costs of these leases on the income statement will be dependent upon their classification as either an operating or a financing lease. We do not expect to have any financing leases at the time of adoption. This standard will be effective for our interim and annual periods beginning January 1, 2019, and must be applied on a modified retrospective basis. In July 2018, the FASB approved an optional transition method to initially account for the impact of the adoption with a cumulative-effect adjustment to the January 1, 2019, rather than the January 1, 2017, financial statements. This will eliminate the need to restate amounts presented prior to January 1, 2019. We will adopt the standard effective January 1, 2019, and we expect to elect this optional transition method, as well as certain practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance within the standard. We are currently evaluating the potential impact of this standard on our financial position, but we do not expect it to have a material impact on our results of operations. 
This standard requires entities to use a current lifetime expected credit loss methodology to measure impairments of certain financial assets. Using this methodology will result in earlier recognition of losses than under the current incurred loss approach, which requires waiting to recognize a loss until it is probable of having been incurred. There are other provisions within the standard that affect how impairments of other financial assets may be recorded and presented, and that expand disclosures. This standard will be effective for our interim and annual periods beginning January 1, 2020, and permits earlier application but not before periods beginning January 1, 2019. The standard will be applied using a modified retrospective approach. We are currently evaluating the potential impact of this standard, but we do not expect it to have a material impact on our financial position and results of operations. 
This standard allows a reclassification of stranded tax effects as a result of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Tax Act) from accumulated other comprehensive income to retained earnings. The provisions from this guidance are effective for interim and annual periods beginning after January 1, 2019. Early adoption is permitted. This standard should be applied either in the period of adoption or retrospectively to each period (or periods) in which the effects of the Tax Act are recognized. We plan to adopt this standard during the interim period in which we complete our accounting for the tax effects of the enactment of the Tax Act, applying the guidance to the period of adoption. This standard will have no impact on our results of operations. We are currently evaluating the potential impact of this standard on our financial position. 
Our Provision for income taxes was $301 million and $430 million for the second quarters of 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $488 million and $688 million for the first six months of 2018 and 2017, respectively.  
In the first quarter of 2018, we reduced the amount of income tax expense recorded for indefinitely reinvested earnings to $669 million from $714 million recorded in 2017. In the second quarter of 2018, we reduced the amount of income tax expense recorded for the effects of the Tax Act on our deferred tax balances to $50 million from $59 million recorded in 2017. These adjustments did not affect the estimated annual effective tax rate for 2018. 
4. Valuation of debt and equity investments and certain liabilities 
We classify our investments as available for sale, trading, equity method or non-marketable equity. Most of our investments are debt securities, which are classified as available for sale. 
As of June 30, 2018, and December 31, 2017, unrealized gains and losses associated with our available-for-sale investments were not material. We did not recognize any credit losses related to available-for-sale investments for the first six months of 2018 and 2017. 
Proceeds from sales, redemptions and maturities of short-term available-for-sale investments were $1.38 billion and $1.27 billion for the second quarters of 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $2.83 billion and $2.39 billion for the first six months of 2018 and 2017, respectively. Gross realized gains and losses from these sales were not material. 
The three-level hierarchy discussed below indicates the extent and level of judgment used to estimate fair-value measurements. 
Level 1 – Uses unadjusted quoted prices that are available in active markets for identical assets or liabilities as of the reporting date. 
Level 2 – Uses inputs other than Level 1 that are either directly or indirectly observable as of the reporting date through correlation with market data, including quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets and quoted prices in markets that are not active. Level 2 also includes assets and liabilities that are valued using models or other pricing methodologies that do not require significant judgment since the input assumptions used in the models, such as interest rates and volatility factors, are corroborated by readily observable data. We utilize a third-party data service to provide Level 2 valuations. We verify these valuations for reasonableness relative to unadjusted quotes obtained from brokers or dealers based on observable prices for similar assets in active markets. 
Goodwill was $4.36 billion as of June 30, 2018, and December 31, 2017. There was no impairment of goodwill during the first six months of 2018 or 2017. 
We maintain a line of credit to support commercial paper borrowings, if any, and to provide additional liquidity through bank loans. As of June 30, 2018, we had a variable-rate revolving credit facility from a consortium of investment-grade banks that allows us to borrow up to $2 billion until March 2023. The interest rate on borrowings under this credit facility, if drawn, is indexed to the applicable London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR). As of June 30, 2018, our credit facility was undrawn, and we had no commercial paper outstanding. 
We retired $500 million of maturing debt in May 2018. 
In the second quarter of 2018, we issued an aggregate principal amount of $1.5 billion of fixed-rate, long-term debt due in 2048, comprised of the issuance of $1.3 billion in May 2018 and an additional $200 million in June 2018. We incurred $16 million of issuance and other related costs. We received $1.5 billion in proceeds, net of the original issuance discount and premium, to be used for general corporate purposes. 
Interest and debt expense was $30 million and $20 million for the second quarters of 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $53 million and $38 million for the first six months of 2018 and 2017, respectively. This was net of the amortization of the debt discounts, premiums and debt issuance costs. Capitalized interest was not material. 
9. Supplemental financial information 
Acquisition charges represent the ongoing amortization of intangible assets resulting from the acquisition of National Semiconductor Corporation. These amounts are included in Other for segment reporting purposes, consistent with how management measures the performance of its segments. See Note 5 for additional information.  
We have recognized $21 million of restructuring charges on a cumulative basis through June 30, 2018, for severance and benefit costs related to the previously reported reorganization of the product lines within our two reportable segments. We have paid $18 million to terminated employees for severance and benefits. Any further charges are not expected to be material.  
We have recognized $36 million of restructuring charges on a cumulative basis through June 30, 2018, for severance and benefits costs, as well as accelerated depreciation, related to the phase out of a manufacturing facility in Greenock, Scotland. Total restructuring charges, primarily severance and benefit costs, are estimated to be about $40 million. The remaining charges are expected to be recognized through 2019. 
Reflects charges for impacts of accelerated depreciation and changes in exchange rates. 
The restructuring accrual balances are primarily reported as a component of either Accrued expenses and other liabilities or Other long-term liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets, depending on the expected timing of payment.  
Total shares of 2,135,405 and 9,028,819 were issued from treasury shares during the second quarter and first six months of 2018, respectively, related to stock compensation. 
ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. 
Information concerning our risk factors is contained in Item 1A of our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, and is incorporated by reference herein. 
