Other includes operating segments that do not meet the quantitative thresholds for individually reportable segments and cannot be aggregated with other operating segments.
Other includes DLP® products, calculators and custom ASIC products.
Our centralized manufacturing and support organizations, such as facilities, procurement and logistics, provide support to our operating segments, including those in Other.
Costs incurred by these organizations, including depreciation, are charged to the segments on a per-unit basis.
Consequently, depreciation expense is not an independently identifiable component within the segments’ results and, therefore, is not provided.
The following geographic area information includes revenue based on product shipment destination.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP) and on the same basis as the audited financial statements included in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, except for the effects of adopting Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No.
Certain information and note disclosures normally included in annual consolidated financial statements have been omitted pursuant to the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
The results for the three- and six-month periods are not necessarily indicative of a full year’s results.
We determine if an arrangement is a lease at inception.
Lease assets represent our right to use underlying assets for the lease term, and lease liabilities represent our obligations to make lease payments over the lease term.
On the commencement date, leases are evaluated for classification, and assets and liabilities are recognized based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term.
We use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement in determining the present value of lease payments.
Operating lease expense is generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Our lease values include options to extend or not to terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise such options.
We have agreements with lease and non-lease components, which are accounted for as a single lease component.
We use the two-class method for calculating EPS because the restricted stock units (RSUs) we grant are participating securities containing non-forfeitable rights to receive dividend equivalents.
Under the two-class method, a portion of net income is allocated to RSUs and excluded from the calculation of income allocated to common stock, as shown in the table below.
Potentially dilutive securities representing 7 million and 5 million shares of common stock that were outstanding during the second quarters of 2019 and 2018, and 9 million and 5 million shares outstanding during the first six months of 2019 and 2018, respectively, were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per common share during these periods because their effect would have been anti-dilutive.
In connection with the issuance of long-term debt, we may use financial derivatives such as treasury-rate lock agreements that are recognized in AOCI and amortized over the life of the related debt.
The results of these derivative transactions have not been material.
We do not use derivatives for speculative or trading purposes.
The fair values of our derivative financial instruments were not material as of June 30, 2019.
Our investments in cash equivalents, short-term investments and certain long-term investments, as well as our deferred compensation liabilities, are carried at fair value.
The carrying values for other current financial assets and liabilities, such as accounts receivable and accounts payable, approximate fair value due to the short maturity of such instruments.
As of June 30, 2019, the carrying value of long-term debt, including the current portion, was $5.81 billion, and the estimated fair value was $6.14 billion.
The estimated fair value is measured using broker-dealer quotes, which are Level 2 inputs.
2016-02, Leases (ASC 842) effective January 1, 2019, using the modified retrospective transition method applied to leases existing at, or entered into after, the adoption date.
The reported results for 2019 reflect the application of the new accounting guidance, while the reported results for prior periods are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with our historical accounting under ASC 840, Leases.
In addition, we elected the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance that allowed us to apply prior conclusions related to lease definition, classification and initial direct costs.
The adoption of the new standard resulted in the recognition of $229 million of lease liabilities with corresponding lease assets as of January 1, 2019.
This standard requires entities to use a current lifetime expected credit loss methodology to measure impairments of certain financial assets.
Using this methodology will result in earlier recognition of losses than under the current incurred loss approach, which requires waiting to recognize a loss until it is probable of being incurred.
Credit losses relating to available-for-sale debt securities will be recorded through an allowance for credit losses rather than as a reduction to the amortized cost basis of the securities.
We did not recognize any credit losses related to available-for-sale investments for the first six months of 2019 and 2018.
There were no other-than-temporary declines and impairments in the values of our debt investments in the first six months of 2019 or 2018.
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date.
The three-level hierarchy discussed below indicates the extent and level of judgment used to estimate fair-value measurements.
Level 1 – Uses unadjusted quoted prices that are available in active markets for identical assets or liabilities as of the reporting date.
Level 2 – Uses inputs other than Level 1 that are either directly or indirectly observable as of the reporting date through correlation with market data, including quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets and quoted prices in markets that are not active.
Level 2 also includes assets and liabilities that are valued using models or other pricing methodologies that do not require significant judgment since the input assumptions used in the models, such as interest rates and volatility factors, are corroborated by readily observable data.
We utilize a third-party data service to provide Level 2 valuations.
We verify these valuations for reasonableness relative to unadjusted quotes obtained from brokers or dealers based on observable prices for similar assets in active markets.
The following are our assets and liabilities that were accounted for at fair value on a recurring basis.
Goodwill was $4.36 billion as of June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018.
Acquisition charges represent the ongoing amortization of intangible assets resulting from the acquisition of National Semiconductor Corporation.
These amounts are included in Other for segment reporting purposes, consistent with how management measures the performance of its segments.
Fully amortized assets are written off against accumulated amortization.
We maintain a line of credit to support commercial paper borrowings, if any, and to provide additional liquidity through bank loans.
As of June 30, 2019, we had a variable-rate revolving credit facility from a consortium of investment-grade banks that allows us to borrow up to $2 billion until March 2024.
As of June 30, 2019, our credit facility was undrawn, and we had no commercial paper outstanding.
In the first quarter of 2019, we issued an aggregate principal amount of $750 million of fixed-rate, long-term debt due in 2039.
We received $743 million in proceeds, net of the original issuance discount, to be used for general corporate purposes.
Interest and debt expense was $44 million and $30 million for the second quarters of 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $82 million and $53 million for the first six months of 2019 and 2018, respectively.
This was net of the amortized discounts, premiums and issuance costs.
In addition, certain long-term supply agreements to purchase industrial gases are accounted for as operating leases.
Lease agreements frequently include renewal provisions and require us to pay real estate taxes, insurance and maintenance costs.
Historically, we have had only minimal, infrequent losses associated with these indemnities.
Consequently, we cannot reasonably estimate any future liabilities that may result.
We accrue for known product-related claims if a loss is probable and can be reasonably estimated.
During the periods presented, there have been no material accruals or payments regarding product warranty or product liability.
Historically, we have experienced a low rate of payments on product claims.
Our stated warranties for semiconductor products obligate us to repair, replace or credit the purchase price of a covered product back to the buyer.
In April 2019, we sold our manufacturing facility in Greenock, Scotland.
Total shares of 3,264,965 and 8,976,983 were issued from treasury shares during the second quarter and first six months of 2019, respectively, related to stock compensation.
