Broad portfolio of differentiated analog and embedded processing semiconductors. Our customers need multiple chips for their systems. The breadth of our portfolio means we can solve more of these needs than our competitors, which gives us access to more customers and the opportunity to sell more products and generate more revenue per customer system. We invest more than $1 billion each year to develop new products for our portfolio, which includes tens of thousands of products. 
Broadest reach of market channels. Customers often begin their initial product selection process and design-in journey on our website, and the breadth of our portfolio attracts more customers to our website than any of our competitors. Our web presence, combined with our global sales force that is also greater in size than those of our competitors, are advantages that give us unique access to about 100,000 customers designing TI semiconductors into their end products. 
Our strategic focus, and where we invest the majority of our resources, is on Analog and Embedded Processing, with a particular emphasis on designing and selling those products into the industrial and automotive markets, which we believe represent the best growth opportunities. Analog and embedded processing products sold into industrial and automotive markets provide long product life cycles, intrinsic diversity, and less capital-intensive manufacturing, which we believe offer stability, profitability and strong cash generation. This business model is the foundation of our capital management strategy, which is based on our belief that free cash flow growth, especially on a per share basis, is important for maximizing shareholder value over the long term. We also believe that free cash flow will be valued only if it is productively invested in the business or returned to shareholders. 
The combined effect of these sustainable competitive advantages is that over time we have gained market share in Analog and Embedded Processing and have grown free cash flow. Our business model puts us in a unique class of companies with the ability to grow, generate cash, and return that cash to shareholders. 
All dollar amounts in the tables are stated in millions of U.S. dollars. 
Our first-quarter revenue was $3.79 billion, net income was $1.37 billion and earnings per share (EPS) were $1.35. Earnings per share include 14 cents in tax-related benefits not in our original guidance. 
Revenue increased 11 percent from the same quarter a year ago. Demand for our Analog and Embedded Processing products continued to be strong in the industrial and automotive markets. 
Our cash flow from operations of $5.7 billion for the trailing 12 months again underscored the strength of our business model. Free cash flow for the trailing 12 months was up 17 percent from a year ago to $4.9 billion, or 32.1 percent of revenue. This reflects the quality of our product portfolio, as well as the efficiency of our manufacturing strategy, including the benefit of 300-millimeter Analog production. 
We have returned $5.1 billion to owners in the past 12 months through stock repurchases and dividends, consistent with our strategy to return to owners all of our free cash flow. Over the last 12 months, our dividends represented 45 percent of free cash flow, emphasizing their sustainability. 
We now expect our ongoing annual operating tax rate to be about 16 percent starting in 2019 and 20 percent in 2018, lower than our previous expectation of 18 percent and 23 percent, respectively. 
For an explanation of free cash flow and the term “annual operating tax rate,” see the Non-GAAP financial information section. 
Revenue increased $387 million, or 11 percent, due to higher revenue from Analog and Embedded Processing. 
Gross profit of $2.45 billion was up $303 million, or 14 percent, due to higher revenue and lower manufacturing costs. As a percentage of revenue, gross profit increased to 64.6 percent from 63.0 percent. 
Acquisition charges of $80 million were non-cash. See Note 9 to the financial statements. 
Operating profit was $1.55 billion, or 40.9 percent of revenue, compared with $1.25 billion, or 36.8 percent of revenue. 
Embedded Processing revenue increased in both product lines, led by Processors. Operating profit increased primarily due to higher revenue and associated gross profit. 
Other revenue decreased by $46 million, and operating profit declined by $23 million. 
Accounts receivable were $1.45 billion, an increase of $176 million compared with the end of 2017. Days sales outstanding at the end of the first quarter of 2018 were 35 compared with 31 at the end of 2017. 
Our primary source of liquidity is cash flow from operations. Additional sources of liquidity are Cash and cash equivalents, Short-term investments and a variable-rate, revolving credit facility. Cash flows from operating activities for the first three months of 2018 were $1.11 billion, an increase of $317 million from the year-ago period. This increase was primarily due to higher Net income. 
Our revolving credit facility is with a consortium of investment-grade banks and allows us to borrow up to $2 billion until March 2023. This credit facility also serves as support for the issuance of commercial paper. As of March 31, 2018, our credit facility was undrawn, and we had no commercial paper outstanding. 
Investing activities for the first three months of 2018 provided $266 million compared with $267 million in the year-ago period. Capital expenditures were $189 million compared with $127 million in the year-ago period and were primarily for semiconductor manufacturing equipment in both periods. We had proceeds from sales of short-term investments, net of purchases, that provided cash of $459 million compared with $363 million in the year-ago period. 
Financing activities for the first three months of 2018 used $1.32 billion compared with $1.14 billion in the year-ago period. In the year-ago period, we repaid $250 million of maturing debt. Dividends paid were $611 million compared with $500 million in the year-ago period, reflecting an increase in the dividend rate, partially offset by fewer shares outstanding. We used $873 million to repurchase 8.2 million shares of our common stock compared with $550 million used in the year-ago period to repurchase 7.1 million shares. Employee exercises of stock options provided cash proceeds of $178 million compared with $161 million in the year-ago period. 
On April 30, 2018, we agreed to issue $1.30 billion principal amount of debt that we expect to use for general corporate purposes, including to replenish our cash on hand following the repayment of maturing debt. The offering is expected to close on May 7, 2018. 
We had $1.72 billion of Cash and cash equivalents and $2.36 billion of Short-term investments as of March 31, 2018. We believe we have the necessary financial resources and operating plans to fund our working capital needs, capital expenditures, dividend and debt-related payments, and other business requirements for at least the next 12 months.  
We believe that free cash flow and the associated ratios provide insight into our liquidity, our cash-generating capability and the amount of cash potentially available to return to shareholders, as well as insight into our financial performance. These non-GAAP measures are supplemental to the comparable GAAP measures. 
Reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP measures is provided in the table below. 
Information regarding long-term debt obligations is described in the long-term contractual obligations table in Item 7 of our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017. 
On January 1, 2018, we adopted Accounting Standards Update No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which is discussed in Note 2 of our consolidated financial statements. 
See Note 2 to the financial statements for detailed information regarding the status of new accounting and reporting standards. 
ITEM 4. Controls and Procedures. 
An evaluation as of the end of the period covered by this report was carried out under the supervision and with the participation of management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934). Based upon that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that those disclosure controls and procedures were effective. In addition, there has been no change in our internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) that occurred during the period covered by this report that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. 
ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. 
ITEM 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds. 
The following table contains information regarding our purchases of our common stock during the quarter. 
All open-market purchases during the quarter were made under the authorization from our board of directors to purchase up to $7.5 billion of additional shares of TI common stock announced September 17, 2015. On September 21, 2017, our board of directors authorized the purchase of an additional $6.0 billion of our common stock. 
In addition to open-market purchases, 467,544 shares of common stock were surrendered by employees to satisfy tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted stock units. 
As of March 31, 2018, this amount consisted of the remaining portion of the $7.5 billion authorized in September 2015 and the $6.0 billion authorized in September 2017. No expiration date has been specified for these authorizations. 
