Other includes operating segments that do not meet the quantitative thresholds for individually reportable segments and cannot be aggregated with other operating segments.
Other includes DLP® products, calculators and custom ASIC products.
Our centralized manufacturing and support organizations, such as facilities, procurement and logistics, provide support to our operating segments, including those in Other.
Costs incurred by these organizations, including depreciation, are charged to the segments on a per-unit basis.
Consequently, depreciation expense is not an independently identifiable component within the segments’ results and, therefore, is not provided.
The following geographic area information includes revenue based on product shipment destination.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP) and on the same basis as the audited financial statements included in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, except for the effects of adopting Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No.
The Consolidated Statements of Income, Comprehensive Income and Cash Flows for the periods ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, and the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of September 30, 2019, are not audited but reflect all adjustments that are of a normal recurring nature and are necessary for a fair statement of the results of the periods shown.
The results for the three- and nine-month periods are not necessarily indicative of a full year’s results.
We determine if an arrangement is a lease at inception.
Lease assets represent our right to use underlying assets for the lease term, and lease liabilities represent our obligations to make lease payments over the lease term.
On the commencement date, leases are evaluated for classification, and assets and liabilities are recognized based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term.
We use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement in determining the present value of lease payments.
Our lease values include options to extend or not to terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise such options.
We have agreements with lease and non-lease components, which are accounted for as a single lease component.
We use the two-class method for calculating EPS because the restricted stock units (RSUs) we grant are participating securities containing non-forfeitable rights to receive dividend equivalents.
Under the two-class method, a portion of net income is allocated to RSUs and excluded from the calculation of income allocated to common stock, as shown in the table below.
Potentially dilutive securities representing 6 million and 4 million shares of common stock that were outstanding during the third quarters of 2019 and 2018, and 7 million and 4 million shares outstanding during the first nine months of 2019 and 2018, respectively, were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per common share during these periods because their effect would have been anti-dilutive.
In connection with the issuance of long-term debt, we may use financial derivatives such as treasury-rate lock agreements that are recognized in AOCI and amortized over the life of the related debt.
The results of these derivative transactions have not been material.
We do not use derivatives for speculative or trading purposes.
The fair values of our derivative financial instruments were not material as of September 30, 2019.
Our investments in cash equivalents, short-term investments and certain long-term investments, as well as our deferred compensation liabilities, are carried at fair value.
The carrying values for other current financial assets and liabilities, such as accounts receivable and accounts payable, approximate fair value due to the short maturity of such instruments.
As of September 30, 2019, the carrying value of long-term debt, including the current portion, was $5.80 billion, and the estimated fair value was $6.32 billion.
The estimated fair value is measured using broker-dealer quotes, which are Level 2 inputs.
2016-02, Leases (ASC 842) effective January 1, 2019, using the modified retrospective transition method applied to leases existing at, or entered into after, the adoption date.
The reported results for 2019 reflect the application of the new accounting guidance, while the reported results for prior periods are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with our historical accounting under ASC 840, Leases.
In addition, we elected the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance that allowed us to apply prior conclusions related to lease definition, classification and initial direct costs.
The adoption of the new standard resulted in the recognition of $229 million of lease liabilities with corresponding lease assets as of January 1, 2019.
This standard requires entities to use a current lifetime expected credit loss methodology to measure impairments of certain financial assets.
Using this methodology will result in earlier recognition of losses than under the current incurred loss approach, which requires waiting to recognize a loss until it is probable of being incurred.
Credit losses relating to available-for-sale debt securities will be recorded through an allowance for credit losses rather than as a reduction to the amortized cost basis of the securities.
We did not recognize any credit losses related to available-for-sale investments for the first nine months of 2019 and 2018.
Proceeds from sales, redemptions and maturities of short-term available-for-sale investments were $220 million and $1.72 billion for the third quarters of 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $2.00 billion and $4.55 billion for the first nine months of 2019 and 2018, respectively.
There were no other-than-temporary declines and impairments in the values of our debt investments in the first nine months of 2019 or 2018.
The three-level hierarchy discussed below indicates the extent and level of judgment used to estimate fair-value measurements.
•Level 1 – Uses unadjusted quoted prices that are available in active markets for identical assets or liabilities as of the reporting date.
•Level 2 – Uses inputs other than Level 1 that are either directly or indirectly observable as of the reporting date through correlation with market data, including quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets and quoted prices in markets that are not active.
Level 2 also includes assets and liabilities that are valued using models or other pricing methodologies that do not require significant judgment since the input assumptions used in the models, such as interest rates and volatility factors, are corroborated by readily observable data.
We utilize a third-party data service to provide Level 2 valuations.
•Level 3 – Uses inputs that are unobservable, supported by little or no market activity and reflect the use of significant management judgment.
These values are generally determined using pricing models that utilize management estimates of market participant assumptions.
As of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, we had no Level 3 assets or liabilities.
The following are our assets and liabilities that were accounted for at fair value on a recurring basis.
Goodwill was $4.36 billion as of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018.
There was no impairment of goodwill during the first nine months of 2019 or 2018.
Acquisition charges represent the ongoing amortization of intangible assets resulting from the acquisition of National Semiconductor Corporation.
These amounts are included in Other for segment reporting purposes, consistent with how management measures the performance of its segments.
Fully amortized assets are written off against accumulated amortization.
We maintain a line of credit to support commercial paper borrowings, if any, and to provide additional liquidity through bank loans.
As of September 30, 2019, we had a variable-rate revolving credit facility from a consortium of investment-grade banks that allows us to borrow up to $2 billion until March 2024.
As of September 30, 2019, our credit facility was undrawn, and we had no commercial paper outstanding.
We retired $750 million of maturing debt in August 2019.
In the first quarter of 2019, we issued a principal amount of $750 million of fixed-rate, long-term debt due in 2039.
We received $743 million in proceeds, net of the original issuance discount, to be used for general corporate purposes.
In the third quarter of 2019, we issued a principal amount of $750 million of fixed-rate, long-term debt due in 2029.
We incurred $5 million of issuance and other related costs.
We received $748 million in proceeds, net of the original issuance discount, to be used for general corporate purposes.
This was net of the amortized discounts, premiums and issuance costs.
In addition, certain long-term supply agreements to purchase industrial gases are accounted for as operating leases.
Lease agreements frequently include renewal provisions and require us to pay real estate taxes, insurance and maintenance costs.
Historically, we have had only minimal, infrequent losses associated with these indemnities.
Consequently, we cannot reasonably estimate any future liabilities that may result.
During the periods presented, there have been no material accruals or payments regarding product warranty or product liability.
Historically, we have experienced a low rate of payments on product claims.
Our stated warranties for semiconductor products obligate us to repair, replace or credit the purchase price of a covered product back to the buyer.
In April 2019, we sold our manufacturing facility in Greenock, Scotland.
Our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income include items that have been recognized within net income during the third quarters and first nine months of 2019 and 2018.
Total shares of 4,404,183 and 13,381,166 were issued from treasury shares during the third quarter and first nine months of 2019, respectively, related to stock compensation.
