fls.txt
our competition; (ii.)


item1.txt
The results of operations for the interim periods presented are not necessarily indicative of results that may be expected for any other interim period or for the full fiscal year.
Daktronics, Inc. operates on a 52- to 53-week fiscal year, with our fiscal year ending on the Saturday closest to April 30 of each year.
When April 30 falls on a Wednesday, the fiscal year ends on the preceding Saturday.
Within each fiscal year, each quarter is comprised of 13-week periods following the beginning of each fiscal year.
The equity method requires us to report our share of losses up to our equity investment amount.
Cash paid for investments in affiliates is included in the Purchases of equity investment line item in our consolidated statements of cash flows.
For the nine months ended January 27, 2018, our share of the losses of our affiliates was $401.
We early adopted ASU 2016-15 during the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
Adoption of ASU 2016-15 did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
Other than the change in presentation within the statements of cash flows, the adoption of ASU 2016-18 did not have an impact on our consolidated financial statements.
The amendment requires an entity to perform its annual or interim goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount.
A goodwill impairment will be the amount by which a reporting unit’s carrying value exceeds its fair value, not to exceed the carrying amount of goodwill.


item2.txt
our competition; (ii.)
our financing plans; (iii.)
fluctuations in margins; (ix.)
the seasonality of our business; (x.)
the amount and frequency of warranty claims; and (xii.)
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
We focus our sales and marketing efforts on markets, geographical regions and products.
Disclosures related to our business segments are provided in "Note 4.
Segment Disclosure" of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report.
Our net sales and profitability historically have fluctuated due to the impact of large project orders, such as display systems for professional sports facilities, colleges and universities, and spectacular projects in the commercial area, as well as the seasonality of the sports market.
Our backlog consists of contractually binding sales agreements or purchase orders we expect to fill within the next 24 months.
Orders, which we define as a receipt of an executed contract and any required deposits, are booked and included in backlog.


item3.txt
This effect is also impacted by sources of raw materials from international sources.
We estimate that a 10 percent change in all foreign exchange rates would impact our reported income before taxes by approximately $1.1 million.


item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
Item 1.


