fls.txt
our competition; (ii.)


item1.txt
Certain prior year amounts in the condensed consolidated balance sheet have been reclassified to conform to the current year's presentation due to the adoption of Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606).
These reclassifications had no effect on reported net income, comprehensive income, cash flows, total assets or total liabilities.
Daktronics, Inc. operates on a 52- or 53-week fiscal year, with our fiscal year ending on the Saturday closest to April 30 of each year.
When April 30 falls on a Wednesday, the fiscal year ends on the preceding Saturday.
Within each fiscal year, each quarter is comprised of 13-week periods following the beginning of each fiscal year.
In October 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued ASU 2016-16, Income Taxes (Topic 740) Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other than Inventory, which is intended to improve the accounting for the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory.
This update eliminates the exception by requiring entities to recognize the income tax consequences of an intra-entity transfer of an asset other than inventory when the transfer occurs.
We have adopted ASU 2016-16 during the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
The adoption of ASU 2016-16 did not have an impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606).
This new standard defines a comprehensive revenue recognition model, requiring a company to recognize revenue from the transfer of goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that the entity expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services.
Revenue Recognition" for more information.
The amendment requires an entity to perform its annual or interim goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount.
A goodwill impairment will be the amount by which a reporting unit’s carrying value exceeds its fair value, not to exceed the carrying amount of goodwill.


item2.txt
our competition; (ii.)
our financing plans; (iii.)
fluctuations in margins; (ix.)
the seasonality of our business; (x.)
the introduction of new products and technology; (xi.)
the timing and magnitude of any acquisitions or dispositions.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Disclosures related to our business segments are provided in "Note 5.
Segment Reporting" of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report.
Our success is contingent on the depth and quality of our products, including related control systems, the depth of our service offerings and our technology serving these market demands.
These qualities are important for our long-term success because our products have finite lifetimes, and we strive to win replacement business from existing customers.


item3.txt
We derive net sales in U.S. dollars and other currencies including Canadian dollars, Euros, Chinese renminbi, British pounds, Australian dollars, Brazilian reais or other currencies.
These accounts are also impacted by changes in foreign currency rates.


item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
Item 1.


