fls.txt
our competition; (ii.)


item1.txt
Daktronics, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the “Company”, “Daktronics”, “we”, “our”, or “us”) are the world's industry leader in designing and manufacturing electronic scoreboards, programmable display systems and large screen video displays for sporting, commercial and transportation applications.
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP have been condensed or omitted.
These financial statements should be read in conjunction with our financial statements and notes thereto for the year ended April 28, 2018, which are contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").
Costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings now represent contract assets.
These reclassifications had no effect on reported net income, comprehensive income, cash flows, total assets or total liabilities.
When April 30 falls on a Wednesday, the fiscal year ends on the preceding Saturday.
Within each fiscal year, each quarter is comprised of 13-week periods following the beginning of each fiscal year.
The six months ended October 27, 2018 and October 28, 2017, contained operating results for 26 weeks.
We adopted ASU 2016-16 during the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
The adoption of ASU 2016-16 did not have an impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606).
ASU 2014-09 and related guidance supersedes revenue recognition requirements under FASB Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Topic 605 and related industry specific revenue recognition guidance.
Revenue Recognition" for more information.
In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-04, Intangibles-Goodwill and Other (Topic 350), which simplifies the subsequent measurement of goodwill by removing the second step of the two-step impairment test.


item2.txt
our competition; (ii.)
our financing plans; (iii.)
fluctuations in margins; (ix.)
the seasonality of our business; (x.)
the timing and magnitude of any acquisitions or dispositions.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
We focus our sales and marketing efforts on markets, geographical regions and products.
Disclosures related to our business segments are provided in "Note 5.
Segment Reporting" of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report.
Our net sales and profitability historically have fluctuated due to the impact of uniquely configured orders, such as display systems for professional sports facilities, colleges and universities, and spectacular projects in the commercial area, as well as the seasonality of the sports market.
Uniquely configured orders involving competitive bidding and substantial subcontract work for product installation generally have lower gross margins.
With this positive demand, strong competition exists across all of our business units, which causes margin constraints.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
Item 1.


