fls.txt
our competition; (ii.)


item1.txt
Within each fiscal year, each quarter is comprised of 13-week periods following the beginning of each fiscal year.
This classification will determine whether the lease expense is recognized based on an effective interest method or on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
A lessee is also required to record a right-of-use asset and a lease liability for all leases with a term greater than 12 months regardless of their classification.
ASU 2016-02 requires lessors to account for leases using an approach that is substantially equivalent to existing guidance for sales-type leases, direct financing leases and operating leases.
Comparative periods were not adjusted and will continue to be reported in accordance with prior lease guidance under ASC 840.
In addition, we have elected the short-term lease recognition whereby we will not recognize operating leases related assets or liabilities for leases with a lease term of less than one year.
We have also elected the practical expedient to not separate lease and non-lease components in the lease payments for all asset classes.
This adoption did not have an impact on our condensed consolidated statements of operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows, and there was no adjustment to retained earnings.
As of April 28, 2019, we recognized a right of use asset for operating leases of $11,101 and a current and non-current lease liability for operating leases of $2,745 and $8,356, respectively.
See "Note 12.
Leases" for more information.
The amendment requires an entity to perform its annual or interim goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount.
A goodwill impairment will be the amount by which a reporting unit’s carrying value exceeds its fair value, not to exceed the carrying amount of goodwill.


item2.txt
the timing and magnitude of future contracts; (vii.)
fluctuations in margins; (ix.)
the introduction of new products and technology; (xi.)
the timing and magnitude of any acquisitions or dispositions.
Risk Factors” and “Part II, Item 7.
This discussion should be read in conjunction with the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Report.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Segment Reporting" of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report.
Uniquely configured orders can include several displays, controllers, and subcontracted structure builds, each of which can occur on varied schedules per the customer's needs.
Orders are included in backlog when we are in receipt of an executed contract and any required deposits or security.
We focus on creating local capabilities for sales, service, and manufacturing in geographies with expected digital market opportunities.
•our ability to generate profits over the long-term to provide a shareholder return.
As a result, additional competitors have entered the market, and each year we must sell more product to generate the same or greater level of net sales as in previous fiscal years.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
Item 1.


