The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of Marvell Technology Group Ltd., a Bermuda exempted company, and its wholly owned subsidiaries (the “Company”), as of and for the three months ended May 5, 2018, have been prepared as required by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”) have been condensed or omitted as permitted by the SEC. These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes should be read in conjunction with the Company's fiscal year 2018 audited financial statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 3, 2018. In the opinion of management, the financial statements include all adjustments, including normal recurring adjustments and other adjustments, that are considered necessary for fair presentation of the Company’s financial position and results of operations. All inter-company accounts and transactions have been eliminated. Operating results for the periods presented herein are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the entire year. The Company's financial results for prior periods presented herein have been recast to reflect certain businesses that were classified as discontinued operations during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017 and second quarter of fiscal year 2018. Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation. These amounts were not material to any of the periods presented.
On November 19, 2017, the Company entered into an agreement and plan of merger (the “Merger Agreement”) with Cavium, Inc. (“Cavium”), pursuant to which a subsidiary of the Company will merge with and into Cavium, with Cavium surviving and becoming a wholly-owned indirect subsidiary of the Company (the "Merger"). Cavium is a provider of highly integrated semiconductor processors that enable intelligent processing for wired and wireless infrastructure and cloud for networking, communications, storage and security applications. The Merger is primarily intended to create an opportunity for the combined company to emerge as a leader in infrastructure solutions. 
Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, the Company will issue 2.1757 common shares and pay $40.00 per share in cash, without interest, for each share of Cavium common stock. The exchange ratio was based on a purchase price of $80 per share, using the Company's undisturbed price prior to November 3, when media reports of the transaction first surfaced. This represents a transaction value of approximately $6 billion. The merger consideration will be financed by a mix of cash, new debt financing and issuance of the Company's common stock. 
In May 2014, the FASB issued a new accounting standard on the recognition of revenue from contracts with customers that superseded nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under GAAP. The new standard requires an entity to recognize revenue from the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The guidance addresses, in particular, contracts with more than one performance obligation, as well as the accounting for certain costs to obtain or fulfill a contract with a customer, and provides for additional disclosures with respect to revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. Public entities are required to apply the amendments on either a full or modified retrospective basis for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017 and for interim periods within those annual periods. The Company adopted the standard on a modified retrospective basis in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, with the cumulative effect recognized in retained earnings at the date of adoption. See "Note 3 - Revenue" for additional information on the impact of the adoption of the new standard on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
In January 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update that changes the accounting for equity investments, financial liabilities under the fair value option, and the presentation and disclosure requirements for financial instruments. The Company adopted the standard in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. The adoption of this guidance did not have a significant impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. 
In August 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standards update to add or clarify guidance on the classification of certain cash receipts and cash payments in the statement of cash flows. The amendments in the update provide guidance on eight specific cash flow issues. The amendments to the guidance should be applied using a retrospective transition method for each period presented and, if it is impracticable to apply all of the amendments retrospectively for some of the issues, the amendments for those issues would be applied prospectively as of the earliest date practicable. The Company adopted the standard in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. The adoption of this guidance did not have an impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. 
In October 2016, the FASB issued new guidance that simplifies the accounting for the income tax effects of intra-entity transfers and will require companies to recognize the income tax effects of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory when the transfer occurs. Previous guidance required companies to defer the income tax effects of intra-entity transfers of assets until the asset had been sold to an outside party or otherwise recognized. The Company adopted the standard in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. The adoption of this guidance did not have an impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. 
In November 2016, the FASB issued new guidance that requires entities to include in their cash and cash-equivalent balances in the statement of cash flows those amounts that are deemed to be restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents. As a result, companies will no longer present transfers between cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows. The Company adopted the standard in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. The adoption of this guidance did not have a significant impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. 
In January 2017, the FASB issued an accounting standards update that revises the definition of a business. The amendments provide a more robust framework for determining when a set of assets and activities is a business. The update is intended to help companies evaluate whether transactions should be accounted for as acquisitions or disposals of assets or businesses. The Company adopted the standard in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. The adoption of this guidance did not have an impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
In May 2017, the FASB issued an accounting standards update that provides guidance about which changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award require an entity to apply modification accounting. Unless the changes in terms or conditions meet all three criteria outlined in the guidance, modification accounting should be applied. The three criteria relate to changes in the terms and conditions that affect the fair value, vesting conditions, or classification of a share-based payment award. The guidance is required to be applied prospectively to an award modified on or after the adoption date. The Company adopted the standard in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. The adoption of this guidance did not have an impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
In February 2016, the FASB issued a new standard on the accounting for leases, which requires a lessee to record a right-of-use asset and a corresponding lease liability on the balance sheet for all leases with terms longer than twelve months. The standard also expands the required quantitative and qualitative disclosures for lease arrangements. The standard is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020. The Company is currently evaluating the effect this new guidance will have on its consolidated financial statements.
In June 2016, the FASB issued a new standard requiring financial assets measured at amortized cost be presented at the net amount expected to be collected, through an allowance for credit losses that is deducted from the amortized cost basis. The standard eliminates the threshold for initial recognition in current GAAP and reflects an entity’s current estimate of all expected credit losses. The measurement of expected credit losses is based on historical experience, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts that affect the collectability of the financial assets. The standard is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021. The Company does not expect the adoption of this guidance will have a material effect on its consolidated financial statements.
In August 2017, the FASB issued an accounting standards update that simplifies the application and administration of hedge accounting. The guidance amends the presentation and disclosure requirements and changes how companies assess effectiveness. The guidance is intended to more closely align hedge accounting with companies' risk management strategies, simplify the application of hedge accounting, and increase transparency as to the scope and results of hedging programs. The guidance is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021. Early adoption is permitted. The guidance will be applied to cash flow and net investment hedge relationships that exist on the date of adoption using a modified retrospective approach. The presentation and disclosure requirements will be applied prospectively. The Company is evaluating the effect this new guidance will have on its consolidated financial statements.
At the beginning of fiscal year 2019, the Company adopted the new revenue recognition standard on a modified retrospective basis, with the cumulative effect recognized in retained earnings at the date of adoption. The Company elected to apply the new revenue standard retrospectively to all contracts that are not completed contracts at the date of the initial adoption. Based on the Company’s assessment of this new accounting standard, a change in revenue recognition timing on its component sales made to distributors was made in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 and the Company started to recognize revenue when the Company transfers control to the distributor rather than deferring recognition until the distributor sells the components. In addition, the Company established accruals for the variable consideration aspect of sales, estimated based on historical experience, which include estimates for price discounts, price protection, rebates, returns and stock rotation programs. On the date of initial adoption, the Company removed the deferred income on component sales made to distributors and recorded estimates of the accruals for variable consideration through a cumulative adjustment to retained earnings. The net impact to the opening balance of retained earnings related to the adoption of the new standard was an increase of $34.2 million.
Adoption of the new revenue standard had no impact to cash from or used in operating, financing, or investing activities on the condensed consolidated statements of cash flow. 
Through the fiscal year ended February 3, 2018, in accordance with ASC 605, Revenue Recognition, the Company recognized revenue when there was persuasive evidence of an arrangement, delivery had occurred, the fee was fixed or determinable, and collection was reasonably assured. If the Company granted extended payment terms greater than its standard terms for a customer such that collectability was not assured, the revenue was deferred upon shipment and would be recognized when the payment became due provided all other revenue recognition criteria had been satisfied.
Product revenue was generally recognized upon shipment of product to customers, net of accruals for estimated sales returns and rebates. However, some of the Company’s sales were made through distributors under agreements allowing for price protection and limited rights of stock rotation on products unsold by the distributors. Product revenue on sales made through distributors were deferred until the distributors sold the product to end customers. Deferred revenue less the related cost of the inventories was reported as deferred income. The Company did not believe that there was any significant exposure related to impairment of deferred cost of sales, as its historical returns had been minimal and inventory turnover for its distributors generally ranged from 60 to 90 days. The Company’s sales to direct customers were made primarily pursuant to standard purchase orders for delivery of products.
The Company enters into contracts that may include various combinations of products and services that are capable of being distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations. To date, the majority of the revenue has been generated by sales associated with storage, networking and connectivity products. Revenue from services has been insignificant. Performance obligations associated with product sales transactions are generally satisfied when control passes to customers upon shipment. Accordingly, product revenue is recognized at a point in time when control of the asset is transferred to the customer. The Company recognizes revenue when it satisfies a performance obligation by transferring control of a product to a customer in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. For product revenue, the performance obligation is deemed to be the delivery of the product and therefore, the revenue is generally recognized upon shipment to customers, net of accruals for estimated sales returns and rebates. These estimates are based on historical returns, analysis of credit memo data and other known factors. Actual returns could differ from these estimates. The Company accounts for rebates by recording reductions to revenue for rebates in the same period that the related revenue is recorded. The amount of these reductions is based upon the terms agreed to with the customer. Some of the Company’s sales are made to distributors under agreements allowing for price protection, price discounts and limited rights of stock rotation on products unsold by the distributors. Control passes to the distributor upon shipment, and terms and payment by the Company’s distributors is not contingent on resale of the product. Product revenue on sales made to distributors with price protection and stock rotation rights is recognized upon shipment to distributors, with an accrual for the variable consideration aspect of sales to distributors, estimated based on historical experience, including estimates for price discounts, price protection, rebates, and stock rotation programs.
The Company’s products are generally subject to warranty, which provides for the estimated future costs of replacement upon shipment of the product. The Company’s products carry a standard one-year warranty, with certain exceptions in which the warranty period can extend to more than one year based on contractual agreements. The warranty accrual is estimated primarily based on historical claims compared to historical revenues and assumes that the Company will have to replace products subject to a claim. From time to time, the Company becomes aware of specific warranty situations, and it records specific accruals to cover these exposures. Warranty expenses were not material for the periods presented.
The majority of the Company's revenue is generated from sales of the Company’s products. 
2)Networking products are comprised primarily of Ethernet Switches, Ethernet Transceivers, Embedded ARM Processors and Automotive Ethernet, as well as a few legacy product lines in which the Company no longer invests, but will generate revenue for several years.
4)Other products comprised of printer specific standard SoC products, as well as full-custom, application-specific integrated circuits and application processors. 
Contract liabilities consist of the Company’s obligation to transfer goods or services to a customer for which the Company has received consideration or the amount is due from the customer. As of May 5, 2018, contract liability balances are comprised of variable consideration estimated based on a portfolio basis using the expected value methodology based on analysis of historical data, current economic conditions, and contractual terms. Variable consideration estimates consist of the estimated returns, price discounts, price protection, rebates, and stock rotation programs and deferred income for the prepayments made by the customers. As of the end of a reporting period, some of the performance obligations associated with contracts will have been unsatisfied or only partially satisfied. In accordance with the practical expedients available in the guidance, the Company does not disclose the value of unsatisfied performance obligations for contracts with an original expected duration of one year or less. Contract liabilities are included in accrued liabilities in the condensed consolidated balance sheets. 
The opening balance of contract liabilities at the beginning of the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 was $79.6 million. During the three months ended May 5, 2018, contract liabilities increased by $198.8 million associated with variable consideration estimates for additional shipments in the quarter, offset by $173.4 million decrease in such reserves primarily due to credit memos issued to customers. The ending balance of contract liabilities as of the first quarter ended in fiscal year 2019 was $105.0 million. 
Sales commissions are generally earned by the salespersons based on shipments to customers. The Company expenses these costs when incurred because the Company's sales commissions do not directly relate to any individual contract. These costs are recorded within selling and marketing expenses.
Inventory held by third-party logistics providers is recorded as consigned inventory on the Company’s unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheet. The amount of inventory held at third-party logistics providers was $16.3 million and $18.7 million at May 5, 2018 and February 3, 2018, respectively.
Short-term, highly liquid investments of $392.1 million and $267.6 million as of May 5, 2018 and February 3, 2018, respectively, included in cash and cash equivalents on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets, are not included in the tables above because the gross unrealized gains and losses were immaterial as the carrying values approximate fair value due to the short term maturity of such investments. 
As of May 5, 2018, for fixed income securities that were in unrealized loss positions, the Company has determined that (i) it does not have the intent to sell these investments, and (ii) it is not more likely than not that it will be required to sell any of these investments before recovery of the amortized cost basis. In addition, as of May 5, 2018, the Company anticipates that it will recover the amortized cost basis of such fixed income securities and has determined that no other-than-temporary impairments associated with credit losses were required to be recognized during the three months ended May 5, 2018.
The Company manages some of its foreign currency exchange rate risk through the purchase of foreign currency exchange contracts that hedge against the short-term effect of currency fluctuations. The Company’s policy is to enter into foreign currency forward contracts with maturities less than 12 months which mitigates the effect of rate fluctuations on certain local currency denominated operating expenses. All derivative instruments are recorded at fair value in either prepaid expenses and other current assets or accrued liabilities. The Company reports cash flows from derivative instruments in cash flows from operating activities. The Company uses quoted prices to value its derivative instruments. There were no outstanding forward contracts at May 5, 2018 and February 3, 2018. 
Cash Flow Hedges. The Company designates and documents its foreign currency forward exchange contracts as cash flow hedges for certain operating expenses. The Company evaluates and calculates the effectiveness of each hedge at least quarterly. The effective change is recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income and is subsequently reclassified to operating expense when the hedged expense is recognized. Ineffectiveness is recorded in interest and other income, net. 
The portion of gains (losses) excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness is included in interest and other income, net. These amounts were not material in the three months ended April 29, 2017. The Company did not have hedge ineffectiveness from derivative financial instruments in the three months ended April 29, 2017. No cash flow hedges were terminated as a result of forecasted transactions that did not occur.
The fair value hierarchy also requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value.
Under the Company’s manufacturing relationships with its foundry partners, cancellation of outstanding purchase orders is allowed but requires payment of all costs and expenses incurred through the date of cancellation. As of May 5, 2018, these foundries had incurred approximately $150.3 million of manufacturing costs and expenses relating to the Company’s outstanding purchase orders.
The Company and certain of its subsidiaries are engaged in legal proceedings and claims which arise in the ordinary course of its business. The Company is currently unable to predict the final outcome of these matters and, therefore, cannot determine the likelihood of loss or estimate a range of possible loss, except with respect to amounts where it has determined a loss is both probable and estimable and where it has made an accrual. Litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties and unfavorable rulings could occur. An unfavorable ruling in litigation, particularly patent litigation, could require the Company to pay damages, one-time license fees or ongoing royalty payments, and could prevent the Company from manufacturing or selling some of its products or limit or restrict the type of work that employees involved in such litigation may perform for the Company, any of which could adversely affect financial results in future periods. There can be no assurance that these matters will be resolved in a manner that is not adverse to the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. For additional discussion regarding certain risks related to litigation matters, please see Part II, Item 1A, "Risk Factors."
During its normal course of business, the Company has made certain indemnities, commitments and guarantees under which it may be required to make payments in relation to certain transactions. These indemnities may include intellectual property indemnities to the Company’s customers in connection with the sales of its products, indemnities for liabilities associated with the infringement of other parties’ technology based upon the Company’s products, indemnities for general commercial obligations, indemnities to various lessors in connection with facility leases for certain claims arising from such facility or lease, and indemnities to directors and officers of the Company to the maximum extent permitted under the laws of Bermuda. In addition, the Company has contractual commitments to various customers that could require the Company to incur costs to repair an epidemic defect with respect to its products outside of the normal warranty period if such defect were to occur. The duration of these indemnities, commitments and guarantees varies and, in certain cases, is indefinite. Some of these indemnities, commitments and guarantees do not provide for any limitation of the maximum potential future payments that the Company could be obligated to make. In general, the Company does not record any liability for these indemnities, commitments and guarantees in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets as the amounts cannot be reasonably estimated and are not considered probable. The Company does, however, accrue for losses for any known contingent liability, including those that may arise from indemnification provisions, when the loss is both estimable and probable.
Note 9. Income Tax
The Company’s quarterly tax provision, and estimate of its annual effective tax rate, is subject to variation due to several factors, including variability in pre-tax income (or loss) and the mix of jurisdictions to which they relate, changes in how the Company does business, and tax law developments. The Company’s estimated effective tax rate for the year differs from the U.S. statutory rate primarily due to the benefit of a substantial portion of its earnings being taxed at rates lower than the U.S. statutory rate.
The income tax provision for the three months ended May 5, 2018 included the current income tax expense of $3.0 million, a net increase in unrecognized tax benefits of $0.3 million, and an expense of $0.4 million related to other discrete items recorded in the quarter. The net increase in unrecognized tax benefits arose from penalties and interest of $0.5 million accrued on the outstanding unrecognized tax benefit balance, partially offset by the release of $0.2 million due to expiration of the statute of limitations in certain non-U.S. jurisdictions.
The income tax provision for the three months ended April 29, 2017 included the current income tax expense of $3.5 million, a net increase in unrecognized tax benefits of $1.0 million, and an expense of $0.7 million related to other discrete items recorded in the quarter. The net increase in unrecognized tax benefits arose from penalties and interest of $0.7 million accrued on the outstanding unrecognized tax benefit balance, plus the accrual of $0.6 million for changes in prior year tax positions, partially offset by the release of $0.3 million due to expiration of the statute of limitations in certain non-U.S. jurisdictions.
The Company operates under tax incentives in certain countries, which may be extended if certain additional requirements are satisfied. The tax incentives are conditional upon meeting certain employment and investment thresholds. The impact of these tax incentives decreased foreign taxes by $0.7 million and $0.7 million for the three months ended May 5, 2018 and April 29, 2017, respectively. The benefit of the tax incentives on net income per share was less than $0.01 per share for the three months ended May 5, 2018 and April 29, 2017.
The Company’s principal source of liquidity as of May 5, 2018 consisted of approximately $1.9 billion of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, of which approximately $1.0 billion was held by foreign subsidiaries (outside Bermuda). Approximately $550 million of this amount held by foreign subsidiaries is related to subsidiaries whose earnings are undistributed and have been indefinitely reinvested outside of Bermuda. These funds are primarily held in China, Israel and the United States. The Company plans to use such amounts to fund various activities outside of Bermuda, including working capital requirements, capital expenditures for expansion, funding of future acquisitions or other financing activities. The amount of undistributed earnings of these subsidiaries for which no deferred tax liability has been provided is $430 million. If such funds were needed by the parent company in Bermuda or if the amounts were otherwise no longer considered indefinitely reinvested, the Company would incur a tax expense of approximately $160 million.
Potential dilutive securities include dilutive common shares from share-based awards attributable to the assumed exercise of stock options, restricted stock units and employee stock purchase plan shares using the treasury stock method. Under the treasury stock method, potential common shares outstanding are not included in the computation of diluted net income per share if their effect is anti-dilutive.
The amount of anti-dilutive potential shares from share-based awards was 5.2 million weighted average shares outstanding and 9.2 million weighted average shares outstanding for the three months ended May 5, 2018 and April 29, 2017, respectively. 
Anti-dilutive potential shares from share-based awards are excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share for all periods reported above because either their exercise price exceeded the average market price during the period or the share-based awards were determined to be anti-dilutive based on applying the treasury stock method.
The information under the caption “Contingencies” as set forth in “Note 8 – Commitments and Contingencies” of our Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Part I, Item 1, is incorporated herein by reference. For additional discussion of certain risks associated with legal proceedings, see Part II, Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” immediately below.
Item 1A. Risk Factors
Our proposed acquisition of Cavium, Inc. (“Cavium”) involves a number of risks, including, among others, the risk that we fail to complete the acquisition in a timely manner or at all, regulatory risks, risks associated with our use of a significant portion of our cash and our taking on significant indebtedness, other financial risks, integration risks, and risk associated with the reactions of customers, suppliers and employees.
The regulatory approvals required in connection with the proposed transaction may not be obtained or may contain materially burdensome conditions. If any conditions or changes to the structure of the proposed transaction are required to obtain these regulatory approvals, they may have the effect of jeopardizing or delaying completion of the proposed transaction or reducing our anticipated benefits. If we agree to any material conditions in order to obtain any approvals required to complete the proposed transaction, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected.
If the Merger is not completed by September 19, 2018 (subject to a potential extension to November 19, 2018 under certain circumstances, including in the event receipt of certain required regulatory approvals has not been obtained), either Marvell or Cavium may choose to terminate the Merger Agreement. Marvell or Cavium may also elect to terminate the Merger Agreement in certain other circumstances, or they may mutually decide to terminate the Merger Agreement at any time prior to the Effective Time, before or after obtaining shareholder approval, as applicable.
Until the completion of the Merger or the termination of the Merger Agreement in accordance with its terms, Marvell and Cavium are each prohibited from entering into certain transactions and taking certain actions that might otherwise be beneficial to Marvell or Cavium and their respective shareholders.
Until the Merger is completed or the Merger Agreement is terminated, the merger agreement dated November 19, 2017 (the "Merger Agreement") restricts Marvell and Cavium from taking specified actions without the consent of the other party, and requires Cavium to conduct its business and operations in the ordinary course in all material respects and substantially in accordance with past practices. These restrictions may prevent Marvell and Cavium from making appropriate changes to their respective businesses or pursuing attractive business opportunities that may arise prior to the completion of the Merger. 
The Merger Agreement limits each of Marvell’s and Cavium’s ability to pursue alternative transactions and, in certain instances, requires payment of a termination fee, which could deter a third party from proposing an alternative transaction.
The Merger Agreement contains provisions that, subject to certain exceptions, limit each of Marvell’s and Cavium’s ability to solicit, initiate, encourage or facilitate, or enter into discussions or negotiations with respect to, any inquiries regarding or the making of any proposal or offer that constitutes or could reasonably be expected to lead to an alternative transaction. In addition, under specified circumstances, Marvell or Cavium is required to pay a termination fee of $180 million if the Merger Agreement is terminated. It is possible that these or other provisions might discourage a potential competing acquirer that might have an interest in acquiring all or a significant part of Marvell or Cavium from considering or proposing an acquisition or might result in a potential competing acquirer proposing to pay a lower per share price to acquire Marvell or Cavium than it might otherwise have proposed to pay.
Any delay in completing the Merger may significantly reduce the benefits expected to be obtained from the Merger.
In addition to the required regulatory clearances and approvals, the Merger is subject to a number of other conditions that are beyond the control of Marvell and Cavium and that may prevent, delay or otherwise materially adversely affect completion of the Merger. Marvell and Cavium cannot predict whether and when these other conditions will be satisfied. Further, the requirements for obtaining the required regulatory clearances and approvals could delay the completion of the Merger for a significant period of time or prevent it from occurring. Any delay in completing the Merger may significantly reduce the synergies projected to result from the Merger and other benefits that Marvell and Cavium expect to achieve if they complete the Merger within the expected timeframe and integrate their respective businesses. 
Following the Merger, Marvell may not fully realize the benefits that we expect to receive from the Merger in the time frame anticipated.
There can be no assurance that Marvell will be able to secure the funds necessary to pay the cash portion of the Merger Consideration and refinance certain of Cavium’s existing indebtedness on acceptable terms, in a timely manner or at all.
In the event that the debt financing contemplated by the debt commitment letter is not available, other financing may not be available on acceptable terms, in a timely manner or at all. If Marvell is unable to obtain debt financing, the Merger may be delayed or not be completed.
Litigation filed against Marvell and Cavium could prevent or delay the completion of the Merger or result in the payment of damages following completion of the Merger. 
•our ability to complete the merger with Cavium, Inc. on a timely basis, or at all;
•our ability to attract, retain and motivate a highly skilled workforce, especially managerial, engineering, sales and marketing personnel.
•customers may consolidate (for example, Western Digital acquired SanDisk in 2017, and Toshiba Corporation is party to an agreement to sell a portion of its semiconductor business), which could lead to changing demand for our products, replacement of our products by the merged entity with those of our competitors and cancellation of orders. 
•unavailability of acquisition financing on reasonable terms or at all.
Any acquired business, technology, service or product could significantly under-perform relative to our expectations and may not achieve the benefits we expect from possible acquisitions. Given that our resources are limited, our decision to pursue a transaction has opportunity costs; accordingly, if we pursue a particular transaction, we may need to forgo the prospect of entering into other transactions that could help us achieve our strategic objectives.
The semiconductor industry, and specifically the storage, networking and connectivity markets, is extremely competitive. We currently compete with a number of large domestic and international companies in the business of designing integrated circuits and related applications, some of which have greater financial, technical and management resources than us. Our efforts to introduce new products into markets with entrenched competitors will expose us to additional competitive pressures. For example, we are facing, and expect we will continue to face, significant competition in the networking market. Additionally, customer expectations and requirements have been evolving rapidly. For example, customers now expect us to provide turnkey solutions and commit to future roadmaps that have technical risks. 
Some of our competitors may be better situated to meet changing customer needs and secure design wins. Increasing competition in the markets in which we operate may negatively impact our revenue and gross margins. For example, competitors with greater financial resources may be able to offer lower prices than us, or they may offer additional products, services or other incentives that we may not be able to match. In addition, many of our competitors operate and maintain their own fabrication facilities and have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases, and greater sales, marketing and distribution resources than we do. Furthermore, our current and potential competitors in the data communication and wireless markets have established or may establish financial and strategic relationships among themselves or with existing or potential customers or other third parties to increase the ability of their products to address the needs of customers. Accordingly, new competitors or alliances among these competitors may acquire significant market share, which would harm our business. While we continue to pursue similar strategic relationships, and currently have significant financial and technical resources, we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to compete successfully against existing or new competitors, which would harm our results of operations. As the technology inflections happen, our competitors may get ahead of us and negatively impact our market share.
In addition, the semiconductor industry has experienced increased consolidation over the past several years. For example, Avago Technologies Limited (now Broadcom Limited (“Broadcom”)) acquired Broadcom Corporation in February 2016 and LSI Corporation in May 2014; Intel acquired Altera Corporation in December 2015; and NXP Semiconductors acquired Freescale Semiconductor, Ltd. in December 2015. In addition, Qualcomm announced a pending bid to buy NXP Semiconductors. Consolidation among our competitors could lead to a changing competitive landscape, capabilities and market share, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage and harm our results of operations.   
A significant portion of our business is dependent on the HDD industry, which is highly cyclical, experiences rapid technological change, is subject to industry consolidation and is facing increased competition from alternative technologies.
The HDD industry is intensely competitive and technology inflections are happening rapidly. This industry has historically been cyclical, with periods of increased demand and rapid growth followed by periods of oversupply and subsequent contraction. These cycles may affect us because some of our largest customers participate in this industry.
HDD manufacturers tend to order more components than they may need during growth periods, and sharply reduce orders for components during periods of contraction. Rapid technological changes in the HDD industry often result in shifts in market share among the industry’s participants. If the HDD manufacturers using our products do not retain or increase their market share, our sales may decrease.
Furthermore, future changes in the nature of information storage products and personal computing devices could reduce demand for traditional HDDs. For example, products using alternative technologies, such as SSD and other storage technologies are a source of competition to manufacturers of HDDs. Although we offer SSD controllers, leveraging our technology in hard drives, we cannot ensure that our overall business will not be adversely affected if demand for traditional HDDs decreases. Additionally, we depend on a few customers for our SSD controllers and as such, the loss of any SSD controller customer or a significant reduction in sales we make to them may harm our financial condition and results of operations. SSD customers may develop their own controllers, which could pose a challenge to our market share in the SSD space.
We rely on independent foundries and subcontractors for the manufacture, assembly and testing of our integrated circuit products, and the failure of any of these third-party vendors to deliver products or otherwise perform as requested could damage our relationships with our customers, decrease our sales and limit our ability to grow our business.
Substantially all of our products are manufactured by third-party foundries located in Taiwan, and other sources are located in China and Singapore. In addition, substantially all of our third-party assembly and testing facilities are located in China, Singapore and Taiwan. Because of the geographic concentration of these third-party foundries, as well as our assembly and test subcontractors, we are exposed to the risk that their operations may be disrupted by regional disasters including, for example, earthquakes (particularly in Taiwan and elsewhere in the Pacific Rim close to fault lines), tsunamis or typhoons, or by political, social or economic instability. In the case of such an event, our revenue, cost of goods sold and results of operations would be negatively impacted. In addition, there are limited numbers of alternative foundries and identifying and implementing alternative manufacturing facilities would be time consuming. As a result, if we needed to implement alternate manufacturing facilities, we could experience significant expenses and delays in product shipments, which could harm our results of operations.
The ability of each foundry to provide us with semiconductor devices is limited by its available capacity and existing obligations. When demand is strong, availability of foundry capacity may be constrained or not available, and with limited exceptions, our vendors are not obligated to perform services or supply products to us for any specific period, in any specific quantities, or at any specific price, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order. We place our orders on the basis of our customers’ purchase orders or our forecast of customer demand, and the foundries can allocate capacity to the production of other companies’ products and reduce deliveries to us on short notice. It is possible that foundry customers that are larger and better financed than we are or that have long-term agreements with our main foundries may induce our foundries to reallocate capacity to those customers. This reallocation could impair our ability to secure the supply of components that we need. In particular, as we and others in our industry transition to smaller geometries, our manufacturing partners may be supply constrained or may charge premiums for these advanced technologies, which may harm our business or results of operations. See also, “We may experience difficulties in transitioning to smaller geometry process technologies or in achieving higher levels of design integration, which may result in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses.” Moreover, if any of our third-party foundry suppliers are unable to secure necessary raw materials from their suppliers, lose benefits under material agreements, experience power outages, lack sufficient capacity to manufacture our products, encounter financial difficulties or suffer any other disruption or reduction in efficiency, we may encounter supply delays or disruptions, which could harm our business or results of operations.
While we attempt to create multiple sources for our products, most of our products are not manufactured at more than one foundry at any given time, and our products typically are designed to be manufactured in a specific process at only one of these foundries. Accordingly, if one of our foundries is unable to provide us with components as needed, it would be difficult for us to transition the manufacture of our products to other foundries, and we could experience significant delays in securing sufficient supplies of those components. This could result in a material decline in our revenue, net income and cash flow.
In order to secure sufficient foundry capacity when demand is high and to mitigate the risks described in the foregoing paragraph, we may enter into various arrangements with suppliers that could be costly and harm our results of operations, such as nonrefundable deposits with or loans to foundries in exchange for capacity commitments, or contracts that commit us to purchase specified quantities of integrated circuits over extended periods. We may not be able to make any such arrangement in a timely fashion or at all, and any arrangements may be costly, reduce our financial flexibility, and not be on terms favorable to us. Moreover, if we are able to secure foundry capacity, we may be obligated to use all of that capacity or incur penalties. These penalties may be expensive and could harm our financial results.
The fabrication of integrated circuits is a complex and technically demanding process. Our technology is transitioning from planar to FINFET transistors. This transition may result in longer qualification cycles and lower yields. Our foundries have from time to time experienced manufacturing defects and lower manufacturing yields, which are difficult to detect at an early stage of the manufacturing process and may be time consuming and expensive to correct. Changes in manufacturing processes or the inadvertent use of defective or contaminated materials by our foundries could result in lower than anticipated manufacturing yields or unacceptable performance. In addition, we may face lower manufacturing yields and reduced quality in the process of ramping up and diversifying our manufacturing partners. Poor yields from our foundries, or defects, integration issues or other performance problems with our products could cause us significant customer relations and business reputation problems, harm our financial performance and result in financial or other damages to our customers. Our customers could also seek damages in connection with product liability claims, which would likely be time consuming and costly to defend. In addition, defects could result in significant costs. See also, “Costs related to defective products could have a material adverse effect on us.”
To the extent that we rely on outside suppliers to manufacture or assemble and test our products, we may have a reduced ability to directly control product delivery schedules and quality assurance, which could result in product shortages or quality assurance problems that could delay shipments or increase costs.
In order to remain competitive, we expect to continue to transition our semiconductor products to increasingly smaller line width geometries. This transition requires us to modify the manufacturing processes for our products and to redesign some products. We periodically evaluate the benefits, on a product-by-product basis, of migrating to smaller geometry process technologies to reduce our costs. In the past, we have experienced some difficulties in shifting to smaller geometry process technologies or new manufacturing processes, which resulted in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. We may face similar difficulties, delays and expenses as we continue to transition our products to smaller geometry processes.
We are dependent on our relationships with our foundry subcontractors to transition to smaller geometry processes successfully. We cannot ensure that the foundries we use will be able to effectively manage the transition or that we will be able to maintain our existing foundry relationships or develop new ones. If we or any of our foundry subcontractors experience significant delays in this transition or fail to efficiently implement this transition, we could experience reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses, all of which could harm our relationships with our customers and our results of operations.
As smaller geometry processes become more prevalent, we expect to continue to integrate greater levels of functionality, as well as customer and third-party intellectual property, into our products. However, we may not be able to achieve higher levels of design integration or deliver new integrated products on a timely basis, if at all. Moreover, even if we are able to achieve higher levels of design integration, such integration may have a short-term adverse impact on our results of operations, as we may reduce our revenue by integrating the functionality of multiple chips into a single chip.
Our indemnification obligations and limitations of our director and officer liability insurance may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
Under Bermuda law, our articles of association and bye-laws and certain indemnification agreements to which we are a party, we have an obligation to indemnify, or we have otherwise agreed to indemnify, certain of our current and former directors and officers with respect to current and future investigations and litigation, including the matters discussed in Part II-Item 1, “Legal Proceedings” of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. In connection with some of these pending matters, we are required to, or we have otherwise agreed to, advance, and have advanced, legal fees and related expenses to certain of our current and former directors and officers and expect to continue to do so while these matters are pending. Certain of these obligations may not be “covered matters” under our directors’ and officers’ liability insurance, or there may be insufficient coverage available. Further, in the event the directors and officers are ultimately determined not to be entitled to indemnification, we may not be able to recover the amounts we previously advanced to them.
In addition, we incurred significant expenses in connection with the Audit Committee’s independent investigation, the pending government investigations, and shareholder litigation. We cannot provide any assurances that past or future claims related to those or other matters, including the cost of fees, penalties or other expenses, will not exceed the limits of our insurance policies, that such claims are covered by the terms of our insurance policies or that our insurance carrier will be able to cover our claims. Additionally, to the extent there is coverage of these claims, the insurers also may seek to deny or limit coverage in some or all of these matters. Furthermore, the insurers could become insolvent and unable to fulfill their obligation to defend, pay or reimburse us for insured claims. Accordingly, we cannot be sure that claims will not arise that are in excess of the limits of our insurance or that are not covered by the terms of our insurance policy. Due to these coverage limitations, we may incur significant unreimbursed costs to satisfy our indemnification obligations, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
•damage to our reputation in the industry that could adversely affect our relationships with our customers. 
We have experienced a significant transition at the executive management level in the last two years. If our executive team is unable to engage and align mid-management or attract and retain the key talent needed for us to timely achieve our business objectives, our business and results of operations could be harmed.
If any of the members of our current management team were to leave our company unexpectedly, we could face substantial difficulty in hiring qualified successors. The marketplace for senior executive management candidates is very competitive and limited, particularly in the Silicon Valley where our U.S. operations are based. Our growth may be adversely impacted if we are unable to attract, retain and motivate such key employees. Turnover of senior management can adversely impact our stock price, our results of operations and our client relationships, and has made recruiting for future management positions more difficult. Competition for senior leadership may increase our compensation expenses, which may negatively affect our profitability.
We depend on highly skilled engineering and sales and marketing personnel to support our business operations. If we are unable to retain and motivate our current personnel or attract additional qualified personnel, our ability to develop and successfully market our products could be harmed.
We believe our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial, engineering, sales and marketing personnel. The competition for qualified technical personnel with significant experience in the design, development, manufacturing, marketing and sales of integrated circuits is intense, both in the Silicon Valley where our U.S. operations are based and in global markets in which we operate. Our inability to attract qualified personnel, including hardware and software engineers and sales and marketing personnel, could delay the development and introduction of, and harm our ability to sell, our products. Changes to United States immigration policies that restrict our ability to attract and retain technical personnel may negatively affect our research and development efforts.
We typically do not enter into employment agreements with any of our key technical personnel and the loss of such personnel could harm our business, as their knowledge of our business and industry would be extremely difficult to replace. The impact on employee morale experienced in connection with our restructuring efforts in fiscal 2017 and 2018, which eliminated approximately 900 jobs worldwide, could make it more difficult for us to add to our workforce when needed due to speculation regarding our future restructuring activities. In addition, our pending merger with Cavium, Inc. may cause our current and prospective employees to experience uncertainty about their futures that may impair our ability to retain, recruit or motivate key management, engineering, technical and other personnel. 
We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secret laws, contractual provisions, confidentiality agreements, licenses and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies. We also enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants and business partners, and control access to and distribution of our documentation and other proprietary information. Notwithstanding these agreements, we have experienced disputes with employees regarding ownership of intellectual property in the past. To the extent that any third party has a claim to ownership of any relevant technologies used in our products, we may not be able to recognize the full revenue stream from such relevant technologies.
We have been issued a significant number of U.S. and foreign patents and have a significant number of pending U.S. and foreign patent applications. However, a patent may not be issued as a result of any applications or, if issued, claims allowed may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In addition, it is possible that existing or future patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. We may also be required to license some of our patents to others including competitors as a result of our participation in and contribution to development of industry standards. Despite our efforts, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or proprietary technology. Monitoring unauthorized use of our technology is difficult, and the steps that we have taken may not prevent unauthorized use of our technology, particularly in jurisdictions where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States or other developed countries. If our patents do not adequately protect our technology, our competitors may be able to offer products similar to ours, which would adversely impact our business and results of operations.
Our products are incorporated into complex devices and systems, which may create supply chain cross-dependencies. Due to cross dependencies, any supply chain disruptions could negatively impact the demand for our products in the short term. We have a limited ability to predict the timing of a supply chain correction. In addition, the market share of our customers could be adversely impacted on a long-term basis due to any continued supply chain disruption, which could negatively affect our results of operations.
We rely on third-party distributors and manufacturers’ representatives and the failure of these distributors and manufacturers’ representatives to perform as expected could reduce our future sales.
From time to time, we enter into relationships with distributors and manufacturers’ representatives to sell our products, and we are unable to predict the extent to which these partners will be successful in marketing and selling our products. Moreover, many of our distributors and manufacturers’ representatives also market and sell competing products, and may terminate their relationships with us at any time. Our future performance will also depend, in part, on our ability to attract additional distributors or manufacturers’ representatives that will be able to market and support our products effectively, especially in markets in which we have not previously distributed our products. If we cannot retain or attract quality distributors or manufacturers’ representatives, our sales and results of operations will be harmed.
A substantial portion of our business is conducted outside of the United States and, as a result, we are subject to foreign business, political and economic risks. All of our products are manufactured outside of the United States. Our current qualified integrated circuit foundries are located in the same region within Taiwan, and our primary assembly and test subcontractors are located in the Pacific Rim region. In addition, many of our customers are located outside of the United States, primarily in Asia, which further exposes us to foreign risks. Sales shipped to customers with operations in Asia represented approximately 94% of our net revenue in the three months ended May 5, 2018 and April 29, 2017, respectively
We also have substantial operations outside of the United States. These operations are directly influenced by the political and economic conditions of the region in which they are located and, with respect to Israel, possible military hostilities periodically affecting the region that could affect our operations there. We anticipate that our manufacturing, assembly, testing and sales outside of the United States will continue to account for a substantial portion of our operations and revenue in future periods.
•trade restrictions, higher tariffs, or changes in cross border taxation, particularly in light of the prospect of changes in U.S. international trade policies following the 2016 U.S. presidential election; 
•exposure to local banking, currency control and other financial-related risks.
Moreover, the international nature of our business subjects us to risk associated with the fluctuation of the U.S. dollar versus foreign currencies. Decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar versus currencies in jurisdictions where we have large fixed costs, or where our third-party manufacturers have significant costs, will increase the cost of such operations which could harm our results of operations.
We must comply with a variety of existing and future laws and regulations that could impose substantial costs on us and may adversely affect our business.
In addition, we are subject to the “conflict mineral rules” promulgated by the SEC, which impose disclosure requirements on us regarding the use of conflict minerals mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries in our products and the procedures our manufacturer’s use to prevent the sourcing of such conflict minerals. The ongoing implementation of these requirements could affect the sourcing, availability and pricing of minerals used in the manufacture of semiconductor devices, including our products. As a result, there may only be a limited pool of suppliers who provide conflict-free metals, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain products in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices, which could adversely affect our operations and product margins. Additionally, if we are unable to sufficiently source conflict-free metals, we may face difficulties in satisfying customers who may require that the products they purchase from us are conflict-free, which may harm our sales and operating results.
Changes in existing taxation benefits, rules or practices may adversely affect our financial results.
Matters relating to or arising from our Audit Committee investigation, including regulatory proceedings, litigation matters and potential additional expenses, may adversely affect our business and results of operations. 
As previously disclosed in our public filings, the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors completed an investigation that generally included a review of certain revenue recognized in the first and second quarters of fiscal 2016 and the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015, including transactions that would have, in the normal course of events and but for action by certain Marvell employees, been completed and recognized in a subsequent quarter (referred to internally as “pull-ins”), the accrual of a litigation reserve in the second quarter of fiscal 2016, and the stated belief by Marvell’s former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of ownership of certain patent rights related to the Final-Level Cache invention and his later assignment of associated patent rights to Marvell. We are also the subject of investigations by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the U.S. Attorney related to these matters. We are fully cooperating with the SEC and the U.S. Attorney with respect to those investigations.
We incurred significant expenses related to legal, accounting, and other professional services in connection with the investigations and related matters and related remediation efforts. The expenses incurred, and expected to be incurred, on the investigations, the impact of our delay in fiscal 2016 and the beginning of fiscal 2017 in meeting our periodic reports on the confidence of investors, employees and customers, and the diversion of the attention of the management team that has occurred, and is expected to continue, has adversely affected, and could continue to adversely affect, our business, financial condition and results of operations or cash flows.
 As a result of the matters reported above, we are exposed to greater risks associated with litigation, regulatory proceedings and government enforcement actions. In addition, we incurred significant legal expenses in connection with securities class actions or other lawsuits that were filed against us, our directors and officers, which lawsuits we have agreed to settle. Any future such investigations or additional lawsuits may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
During fiscal 2016 and continuing through the third quarter of fiscal 2018, we identified material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, which have since been remediated. If we are unable to develop, implement and maintain effective internal controls in future periods, our consolidated financial statements could contain material misstatements which would cause us to issue a restatement thereof. A restatement of our consolidated financial statements could cause our investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and lead to a decline in our stock price.
The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and SEC rules require that management report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures. Among other things, management must conduct an assessment of internal control over financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. During fiscal 2016 and continuing through the third quarter of fiscal 2018, we identified material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting. While we have remediated these material weaknesses as of February 3, 2018, the remediation process absorbed significant management attention and we incurred significant expenses relating to the remediation.  
Any control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting will not necessarily prevent all error and all fraud. Controls can also be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. In addition, we may modify the design and operating effectiveness of our internal controls, which could affect the overall effectiveness or evaluation of the control system in the future by us or our independent registered public accounting firm. We cannot ensure that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions, as controls may become inadequate due to changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could limit our ability to provide reliable financial reports, or to detect and prevent fraud, which would harm our business.
We had approximately $2.0 billion of goodwill on our consolidated balance sheet as of May 5, 2018. Under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, we are required to review our intangible assets including goodwill for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable. We perform an assessment of goodwill for impairment annually on the last business day of our fiscal fourth quarter and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of goodwill may not be recoverable.
 We have identified that our business operates as a single operating segment with two components (Storage, and Networking and Connectivity), which we have concluded can be aggregated into a single reporting unit for purposes of testing goodwill impairment. The fair value of the reporting unit is determined by taking our market capitalization as determined through quoted market prices and as adjusted for a control premium and other relevant factors. If our fair value declines to below our carrying value, we could incur significant goodwill impairment charges, which could negatively impact our financial results. If in the future a change in our organizational structure results in more than one reporting unit, we will be required to allocate our goodwill and perform an assessment of goodwill for impairment in each reporting unit. As a result, we could have an impairment of goodwill in one or more of such future reporting units.
If we were classified as a passive foreign investment company, there would be adverse tax consequences to U.S. holders of our ordinary shares.
If we were classified as a “passive foreign investment company” or “PFIC” under section 1297 of the Internal Revenue Code, of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), for any taxable year during which a U.S. holder holds ordinary shares, such U.S. holder generally would be taxed at ordinary income tax rates on any gain realized on the sale or exchange of the ordinary shares and on any “excess distributions” (including constructive distributions) received on the ordinary shares. Such U.S. holder could also be subject to a special interest charge with respect to any such gain or excess distribution.
We would be classified as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes in any taxable year in which either (i) at least 75% of our gross income is passive income or (ii) on average, the percentage of our assets that produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income is at least 50% (determined on an average gross value basis). We were not classified as a PFIC for fiscal year 2017 or in any prior taxable year. Whether we will, in fact, be classified as a PFIC for any subsequent taxable year depends on our assets and income over the course of the relevant taxable year and, as a result, cannot be predicted with certainty. In particular, because the total value of our assets for purposes of the asset test will be calculated based upon the market price of our ordinary shares, a significant and sustained decline in the market price of our ordinary shares and corresponding market capitalization relative to our passive assets could result in our being classified as a PFIC. There can be no assurance that we will not be classified as a PFIC in the future or the Internal Revenue Service will not challenge our determination concerning PFIC status for any prior period.
Our insurance policies may not be adequate to fully offset losses from covered incidents, and we do not have coverage for certain losses. For example, there is very limited coverage available with respect to the services provided by our third-party foundries and assembly and test subcontractors. In the event of a natural disaster (such as an earthquake or tsunami), political or military turmoil, widespread health issues or other significant disruptions to their operations, insurance may not adequately protect us from this exposure. We believe our existing insurance coverage is consistent with common practice, economic considerations and availability considerations. If our insurance coverage is insufficient to protect us against unforeseen catastrophic losses, any uncovered losses could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.
We are subject to the risks of owning real property.
There can be no assurance that we will continue to declare cash dividends or effect share repurchases in any particular amount or at all, and statutory requirements under Bermuda Law may require us to defer payment of declared dividends or suspend share repurchases.
We are incorporated in Bermuda and, as a result, it may not be possible for our shareholders to enforce civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States. In addition, our Bye-Laws contain a waiver of claims or rights of action by our shareholders against our officers and directors, which will severely limit our shareholders’ right to assert a claim against our officers and directors under Bermuda law.
We are organized under the laws of Bermuda. As a result, it may not be possible for our shareholders to affect service of process within the United States upon us, or to enforce against us in U.S. courts judgments based on the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States. There is significant doubt as to whether the courts of Bermuda would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state, or hear actions brought in Bermuda against us or those persons based on those laws. The United States and Bermuda do not currently have a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. Therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any federal or state court in the United States based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on U.S. federal or state securities laws, would not be automatically enforceable in Bermuda.
Our Bye-Laws contain a broad waiver by our shareholders of any claim or right of action, both individually and on our behalf, against any of our officers and directors. The waiver applies to any action taken by an officer or director, or the failure of an officer or director to take any action, in the performance of his or her duties with or for us, other than with respect to any matter involving any fraud or dishonesty on the part of the officer or director or to any matter arising under U.S. federal securities laws. This waiver will limit the rights of our shareholders to assert claims against our officers and directors unless the act complained of involves fraud or dishonesty or arises as a result of a breach of U.S. federal securities laws. Therefore, so long as acts of business judgment do not involve fraud or dishonesty or arise as a result of a breach of U.S. federal securities laws, they will not be subject to shareholder claims under Bermuda law. For example, shareholders will not have claims against officers and directors for a breach of trust, unless the breach rises to the level of fraud or dishonesty, or arises as a result of a breach of U.S. federal securities laws.
Our Bye-Laws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in corporate control, even if the change in corporate control would benefit our shareholders.
Our Bye-Laws contain change in corporate control provisions, which include authorizing the issuance of preferred shares without shareholder approval. This provision could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our shareholders.
