Item 1. Financial Statements
See accompanying notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements
See accompanying notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements
See accompanying notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements
See accompanying notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements
The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of Marvell Technology Group Ltd., a Bermuda exempted company, and its wholly owned subsidiaries (the “Company”), as of and for the three and nine months ended November 3, 2018, have been prepared as required by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”) have been condensed or omitted as permitted by the SEC. These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes should be read in conjunction with the Company's fiscal year 2018 audited financial statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 3, 2018. In the opinion of management, the financial statements include all adjustments, including normal recurring adjustments and other adjustments, that are considered necessary for fair presentation of the Company’s financial position and results of operations. All inter-company accounts and transactions have been eliminated. Operating results for the periods presented herein are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the entire year. Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation. These amounts were not material to any of the periods presented. These financial statements should also be read in conjunction with the Company’s critical accounting policies included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended February 3, 2018 and those included in this Form 10-Q below.
The Company’s fiscal year is the 52- or 53-week period ending on the Saturday closest to January 31. Accordingly, every fifth or sixth fiscal year will have a 53-week period. The additional week in a 53-week year is added to the fourth quarter, making such quarter consist of 14 weeks. Fiscal 2018 had a 53-week year. Fiscal 2019 is a 52-week year.
On July 6, 2018, the Company completed its acquisition of Cavium, Inc. (“Cavium”). Cavium is a provider of highly integrated semiconductor processors that enable intelligent processing for wired and wireless infrastructure and cloud for networking, communications, storage and security applications. Cavium designs, develops and markets semiconductor processors for intelligent and secure networks. The consolidated financial statements include the operating results of Cavium for the period from the date of acquisition to the Company's third quarter ended November 3, 2018. See “Note 3 - Business Combination” for more information. 
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued a new accounting standard on the recognition of revenue from contracts with customers that superseded nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under GAAP. The new standard requires an entity to recognize revenue from the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The guidance addresses, in particular, contracts with more than one performance obligation, as well as the accounting for certain costs to obtain or fulfill a contract with a customer, and provides for additional disclosures with respect to revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. Public entities are required to apply the amendments on either a full or modified retrospective basis for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017 and for interim periods within those annual periods. The Company adopted the standard on a modified retrospective basis in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, with the cumulative effect recognized in retained earnings at the date of adoption. See "Note 12 - Revenue" for additional information on the impact of the adoption of the new standard on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
In January 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update that changes the accounting for equity investments, financial liabilities under the fair value option, and the presentation and disclosure requirements for financial instruments. The Company adopted the standard in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. The adoption of this guidance did not have a significant impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. 
In August 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standards update to add or clarify guidance on the classification of certain cash receipts and cash payments in the statement of cash flows. The amendments in the update provide guidance on eight specific cash flow issues. The amendments to the guidance should be applied using a retrospective transition method for each period presented and, if it is impracticable to apply all of the amendments retrospectively for some of the issues, the amendments for those issues would be applied prospectively as of the earliest date practicable. The Company adopted the standard in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. The adoption of this guidance did not have an impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
In October 2016, the FASB issued new guidance that simplifies the accounting for the income tax effects of intra-entity transfers and will require companies to recognize the income tax effects of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory when the transfer occurs. Previous guidance required companies to defer the income tax effects of intra-entity transfers of assets until the asset had been sold to an outside party or otherwise recognized. The Company adopted the standard in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. The adoption of this guidance did not have an impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
In November 2016, the FASB issued new guidance that requires entities to include in their cash and cash-equivalent balances in the statement of cash flows those amounts that are deemed to be restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents. As a result, companies will no longer present transfers between cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows. The Company adopted the standard in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. The adoption of this guidance did not have a significant impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
In January 2017, the FASB issued an accounting standards update that revises the definition of a business. The amendments provide a more robust framework for determining when a set of assets and activities is a business. The update is intended to help companies evaluate whether transactions should be accounted for as acquisitions or disposals of assets or businesses. The Company adopted the standard in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. The adoption of this guidance did not have an impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
In May 2017, the FASB issued an accounting standards update that provides guidance about which changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award require an entity to apply modification accounting. Unless the changes in terms or conditions meet all three criteria outlined in the guidance, modification accounting should be applied. The three criteria relate to changes in the terms and conditions that affect the fair value, vesting conditions, or classification of a share-based payment award. The guidance is required to be applied prospectively to an award modified on or after the adoption date. The Company adopted the standard in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. The adoption of this guidance did not have an impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
In August 2017, the FASB issued an accounting standards update that simplifies the application and administration of hedge accounting. The guidance amends the presentation and disclosure requirements and changes how companies assess effectiveness. The guidance is intended to more closely align hedge accounting with companies' risk management strategies, simplify the application of hedge accounting, and increase transparency as to the scope and results of hedging programs. The guidance is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020. Early adoption is permitted. The guidance will be applied to cash flow and net investment hedge relationships that exist on the date of adoption using a modified retrospective approach. The presentation and disclosure requirements will be applied prospectively. The Company early adopted the standard in the third quarter of fiscal 2019. The adoption of this guidance did not have a significant effect on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Effective
In February 2016, the FASB issued a new standard on the accounting for leases, which requires a lessee to record a right-of-use asset and a corresponding lease liability on the balance sheet for all leases with terms longer than twelve months. The standard also expands the required quantitative and qualitative disclosures for lease arrangements. The standard is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020. The Company will adopt the new lease accounting standard using a modified retrospective method and will not restate comparative periods. The Company currently estimates that the adoption of the new leasing standard will result in recognition of $135 million to $165 million in lease related right-of-use assets and liabilities on the company's condensed consolidated balance sheet, primarily related to real estate. The estimate could change as the Company finalizes estimates and proceeds towards implementation of the standard and will also fluctuate based on the lease portfolio, discount rates and foreign currency exchange rates as of the adoption date. The Company is in the process of implementing changes to its processes and systems to support the adoption of the new lease accounting standard. 
In June 2016, the FASB issued a new standard requiring financial assets measured at amortized cost be presented at the net amount expected to be collected, through an allowance for credit losses that is deducted from the amortized cost basis. The standard eliminates the threshold for initial recognition in current GAAP and reflects an entity’s current estimate of all expected credit losses. The measurement of expected credit losses is based on historical experience, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts that affect the collectability of the financial assets. The standard is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021. The Company does not expect the adoption of this guidance will have a material effect on its consolidated financial statements.
In August 2018, the FASB issued an accounting standards update to align the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a software hosting arrangement that is a service contract and costs to develop or obtain internal-use software. The guidance is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021, with early adoption permitted. The Company is evaluating the effect this new guidance will have on its consolidated financial statements.
In August 2018, the FASB issued an accounting standards update that modifies the disclosure requirements on fair value measurements. The new guidance adds, modifies and removes certain fair value measurement disclosure requirements. The guidance is effective for the company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021, with early adoption permitted. The Company is evaluating the effect this new guidance will have on its consolidated financial statements. 
In November 2018, the FASB issued an accounting standards update that clarifies when transactions between participants in a collaborative arrangement are within the scope of the new revenue recognition standard that the Company adopted at the beginning of fiscal 2019. The guidance is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021, with early adoption permitted. The guidance must be applied retrospectively as of the date of initial application of the revenue recognition standard. In addition, entities may elect to apply the guidance to all collaborative arrangements or only to collaborative arrangements that are not completed as of the date of initial application of the aforementioned revenue recognition standard. The Company is evaluating the effect this new guidance will have on its consolidated financial statements. 
On July 6, 2018, the Company completed the acquisition of Cavium (the “Cavium acquisition”). Cavium is a provider of highly integrated semiconductor processors that enable intelligent processing for wired and wireless infrastructure and cloud for networking, communications, storage and security applications. The Cavium acquisition was primarily intended to create an opportunity for the combined company to emerge as a leader in infrastructure solutions. In accordance with the terms of the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of November 19, 2017, by and among the Company and Cavium (the “Cavium merger agreement”), the Company acquired all outstanding shares of common stock of Cavium (the “Cavium shares”) for $40.00 per share in cash and 2.1757 shares of the Company’s common stock exchanged for each share of Cavium stock. The Company also made cash payments for the fractional shares that resulted from conversion as specified in the Cavium merger agreement. The merger consideration was funded with a combination of cash on hand, new debt financing and issuance of the Company’s common shares. See “Note 10 - Debt” for discussion of the debt financing.
The merger consideration allocation set forth herein is preliminary and may be revised as additional information becomes available during the measurement period which could be up to 12 months from the closing date of the acquisition. Any such revisions or changes may be material.
The provisional amounts presented in the table above pertained to the preliminary purchase price allocation reported in the Company’s Form 10-Q for the second quarter ended August 4, 2018. The measurement period adjustments were primarily related to the completion of the final Cavium income tax returns and adjustments to uncertain tax positions. The Company does not believe that the measurement period adjustments had a material impact on its consolidated statements of operations, balance sheets or cash flows in any periods previously reported.
The Company incurred total acquisition related costs of $53.7 million which were recorded in selling, general and administrative expense in the condensed consolidated statements of operations. The Company also incurred $22.8 million of debt financing costs. As of November 3, 2018, $0.4 million associated with the Revolving Credit Facility was classified in prepaid expenses and other current assets, $1.4 million associated with the Revolving Credit Facility was classified in other non-current assets, and $12.2 million associated with the term loan and senior notes was classified in long-term debt in the condensed consolidated balance sheet. See “Note 10. Debt” for additional information. Additionally, the Company incurred $2.9 million of equity issuance costs, which were recorded in additional paid-in capital in the condensed consolidated balance sheet. 
Since the date of the acquisition, Cavium contributed $212.9 million and $254.3 million of the consolidated net revenue for the three and nine months ended November 3, 2018. Cavium net loss incurred in the three and nine months ended November 3, 2018 was $184.8 million and $305.4 million, which included restructuring costs of $19.1 million and $41.4 million, respectively. 
The following supplemental pro forma information presents the combined results of operations for each of the periods presented, as if Cavium had been acquired as of the beginning of fiscal year 2018. The supplemental pro forma information includes adjustments to amortization and depreciation for acquired intangible assets and property and equipment, adjustments to share-based compensation expense, the purchase accounting effect on inventories acquired, interest expense, and transaction costs. For fiscal year 2018, nonrecurring pro forma adjustments directly attributable to the Cavium acquisition included (i) share-based compensation expense of $37.8 million, (ii) the purchase accounting effect of inventories acquired of $223.0 million, (iii) bridge loan related debt issuance costs of $6.1 million and (iv) transaction costs of $121.8 million. The supplemental pro forma information presented below is for informational purposes only and is not necessarily indicative of our consolidated results of operations of the combined business had the Cavium acquisition actually occurred at the beginning of fiscal year 2018 or of the results of our future operations of the combined business.
The noncash consideration paid for the acquisition of Cavium was $3.3 billion for the nine months ended November 3, 2018.
Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired in a business combination. The carrying value of goodwill as of November 3, 2018 and February 3, 2018 is $5.5 billion and $2.0 billion, respectively. The change in the carrying value of goodwill from February 3, 2018 to November 3, 2018 was due to the Cavium acquisition. See “Note 3 - Business Combination” for further discussion of the acquisition. 
Note 5. Supplemental Financial Information (in thousands)
Consolidated Balance Sheets 
The inventory balance at November 3, 2018 includes $97.6 million related to the inventory step-up adjustment from the Cavium acquisition. 
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)
On October 16, 2018, the Company announced that its Board of Directors authorized a $700 million addition to the balance of its existing share repurchase plan. As of November 3, 2018, there was $1.0 billion remaining available for future share repurchases. Under the program authorized by its Board of Directors, the Company may repurchase shares in the open-market or through privately negotiated transactions. The extent to which the Company repurchases its shares and the timing of such repurchases will depend upon market conditions and other corporate considerations, as determined by the Company's management team. The repurchase program may be suspended or discontinued at any time. 
The Company repurchased 2.9 million of its common shares for $54.0 million during the nine months ended November 3, 2018. The Company repurchased 31.5 million shares for $527.6 million during the nine months ended October 28, 2017. The repurchased shares were retired immediately after the repurchases were completed. 
As of November 3, 2018, a total of 289.3 million shares have been repurchased to date under the Company’s share repurchase program for a total $3.8 billion in cash.
Note 6. Restructuring and Other Related Charges
The Company continuously evaluates its existing operations to increase operational efficiency, decrease costs and increase profitability. The Company recorded restructuring and other related charges of $27.0 million for the three months ended November 3, 2018. These restructuring costs consist of approximately $14.2 million in severance and related costs, $2.2 million in facilities and related costs, $0.7 million in other exit-related costs and $9.9 million in asset write off costs. The asset write off costs include $6.5 million of technology license impairment and $3.4 million from fixed asset write offs and accelerated depreciation expense as a result of facility consolidation. The Company expects to complete these restructuring actions by the end of fiscal 2020. 
The Company recorded restructuring and other related charges of $64.0 million for the nine months ended November 3, 2018. These restructuring and other related charges consist of approximately $37.9 million in severance and related costs, $13.2 million in facilities and related costs, $1.0 million in other exit-related costs and $11.9 million in asset write off costs and accelerated depreciation expense. The accrued restructuring liability as of November 3, 2018 was $31.2 million. 
The remaining accrued severance and related costs and the other exit-related costs are expected to be paid in fiscal 2019. The remaining accrued facility and related costs includes remaining payments under lease obligations related to vacated space that are expected to be paid through fiscal 2028, net of estimated sub-lease income. 
Short-term, highly liquid investments of $83.9 million and $267.6 million as of November 3, 2018 and February 3, 2018, respectively, included in cash and cash equivalents on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets are not included in the table above because the gross unrealized gains and losses were immaterial as the carrying values approximate fair value due to the short term maturity of such investments. 
The Company manages some of its foreign currency exchange rate risk through the purchase of foreign currency exchange contracts that hedge against the short-term effect of currency fluctuations. The Company’s policy is to enter into foreign currency forward contracts with maturities less than 12 months which mitigates the effect of rate fluctuations on certain local currency denominated operating expenses. All derivative instruments are recorded at fair value in either prepaid expenses and other current assets or accrued liabilities. The Company reports cash flows from derivative instruments in cash flows from operating activities. The Company uses quoted prices to value its derivative instruments. There were no outstanding forward contracts at November 3, 2018 and February 3, 2018. 
Cash Flow Hedges. The Company designates and documents its foreign currency forward exchange contracts as cash flow hedges for certain operating expenses. The Company evaluates and calculates the effectiveness of each hedge at least quarterly. The effective change is recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income and is subsequently reclassified to operating expense when the hedged expense is recognized. Ineffectiveness is recorded in interest and other income, net. 
The portion of gains (losses) excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness is included in interest and other income, net. These amounts were not material in the three and nine months ended October 28, 2017. The Company did not have hedge ineffectiveness from derivative financial instruments in the three and nine months ended November 3, 2018 and October 28, 2017. No cash flow hedges were terminated as a result of forecasted transactions that did not occur.
Level 1—Observable inputs that reflect quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in active markets.
Level 2—Other inputs that are directly or indirectly observable in the marketplace.
Level 3—Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity.
The fair value hierarchy also requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value.
Fair Value of Debt
The Company classified the Term Loan, the 2023 Notes and 2028 Notes under Level 2 of the fair value measurement hierarchy. The carrying value of the Term Loan approximates its fair value as the Term Loan is carried at a market observable interest rate that resets periodically. At November 3, 2018, the estimated aggregate fair value of the 2023 Notes and 2028 Notes was $987.8 million and were classified as Level 2 as there are quoted prices from less active markets for the notes. 
The Credit Agreement requires that the Company and its subsidiaries comply, subject to certain exceptions, with covenants relating to customary matters such as creating or permitting certain liens, entering into sale and leaseback transactions, consolidating, merging, liquidating or dissolving, and entering into restrictive agreements. It also prohibits subsidiaries of the Company from incurring additional indebtedness, and requires the Company to comply with a leverage ratio financial covenant not to exceed 3 to 1 as of the end of any fiscal quarter. As of November 3, 2018, the Company was in compliance with all of its debt covenants. 
On June 22, 2018, the Company completed a public offering of (i) $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of the Company's 4.200% Senior Notes due 2023 (the “2023 Notes”) and (ii) $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of the Company's 4.875% Senior Notes due 2028 (the “2028 Notes” and, together with the 2023 Notes, the "Senior Notes”). 
The 2023 Notes mature on June 22, 2023 and the 2028 Notes mature on June 22, 2028. The stated and effective interest rates for the 2023 Notes are 4.200% and 4.423%, respectively. The stated and effective interest rates for the 2028 Notes are 4.875% and 5.012%, respectively. The Company may redeem the Senior Notes, in whole or in part, at any time prior to their maturity at the redemption prices set forth in Senior Notes. In addition, upon the occurrence of a change of control repurchase event (which involves the occurrence of both a change of control and a ratings event involving the Senior Notes being rated below investment grade), the Company will be required to make an offer to repurchase the Senior Notes at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount of the notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the repurchase date. The indenture governing the Senior Notes also contains certain limited covenants restricting the Company’s ability to incur certain liens, enter into certain sale and leaseback transactions and merge or consolidate with any other entity or convey, transfer or lease all or substantially all of the Company’s properties or assets to another person, which, in each case, are subject to certain qualifications and exceptions.
During the three and nine months ended November 3, 2018, the Company recognized $20.9 million and $29.8 million of interest expense in its consolidated statements of operations related to interest, amortization of debt issuance costs and accretion of discount associated with the outstanding Term Loan and Senior Notes, respectively.
On July 6, 2018, concurrent with completing the acquisition of Cavium as further described in “Note 3 - Business Combination,” the Company assumed and paid all of Cavium's outstanding debt and accrued interest of $606.6 million. Cavium's debt was governed under a credit agreement dated August 16, 2016, which was terminated following the repayment. 
Purchase Commitments
Under the Company’s manufacturing relationships with its foundry partners, cancellation of outstanding purchase orders is allowed but requires payment of all costs and expenses incurred through the date of cancellation. As of November 3, 2018, these foundries had incurred approximately $149.1 million of manufacturing costs and expenses relating to the Company’s outstanding purchase orders.
Indemnities, Commitments and Guarantees
During its normal course of business, the Company has made certain indemnities, commitments and guarantees under which it may be required to make payments in relation to certain transactions. These indemnities may include intellectual property indemnities to the Company’s customers in connection with the sales of its products, indemnities for liabilities associated with the infringement of other parties’ technology based upon the Company’s products, indemnities for general commercial obligations, indemnities to various lessors in connection with facility leases for certain claims arising from such facility or lease, and indemnities to directors and officers of the Company to the maximum extent permitted under the laws of Bermuda. In addition, the Company has contractual commitments to various customers that could require the Company to incur costs to repair an epidemic defect with respect to its products outside of the normal warranty period if such defect were to occur. The duration of these indemnities, commitments and guarantees varies and, in certain cases, is indefinite. Some of these indemnities, commitments and guarantees do not provide for any limitation of the maximum potential future payments that the Company could be obligated to make. In general, the Company does not record any liability for these indemnities, commitments and guarantees in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets as the amounts cannot be reasonably estimated and are not considered probable. The Company does, however, accrue for losses for any known contingent liability, including those that may arise from indemnification provisions, when the loss is both estimable and probable.
At the beginning of fiscal year 2019, the Company adopted the new revenue recognition standard on a modified retrospective basis, with the cumulative effect recognized in retained earnings at the date of adoption. The Company elected to apply the new revenue standard retrospectively to all contracts that are not completed contracts at the date of the initial adoption. Based on the Company’s assessment of this new accounting standard, a change in revenue recognition timing on its component sales made to distributors was made in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 and the Company started to recognize revenue when the Company transfers control to the distributor rather than deferring recognition until the distributor sells the components. In addition, the Company established accruals for the variable consideration aspect of sales, estimated based on historical experience, which include estimates for price discounts, price protection, rebates, returns and stock rotation programs. On the date of initial adoption, the Company removed the deferred income on component sales made to distributors and recorded estimates of the accruals for variable consideration through a cumulative adjustment to retained earnings. The net impact to the opening balance of retained earnings related to the adoption of the new standard was an increase of $34.2 million.
The following table summarizes the effects of adopting the new revenue standard on the Company's financial statements for the fiscal year beginning February 4, 2018 as an adjustment to the opening balance. Such adjustments were of a non-cash nature.
Adoption of the new revenue standard had no impact to cash from or used in operating, financing, or investing activities on the condensed consolidated statements of cash flow. 
New Revenue Recognition Policy Including Significant Judgments and Estimates
Through the fiscal year ended February 3, 2018, in accordance with ASC 605, Revenue Recognition, the Company recognized revenue when there was persuasive evidence of an arrangement, delivery had occurred, the fee was fixed or determinable, and collection was reasonably assured. If the Company granted extended payment terms greater than its standard terms for a customer such that collectability was not assured, the revenue was deferred upon shipment and would be recognized when the payment became due provided all other revenue recognition criteria had been satisfied.
Product revenue was generally recognized upon shipment of product to customers, net of accruals for estimated sales returns and rebates. However, some of the Company’s sales were made through distributors under agreements allowing for price protection and limited rights of stock rotation on products unsold by the distributors. Product revenue on sales made through distributors were deferred until the distributors sold the product to end customers. Deferred revenue less the related cost of the inventories was reported as deferred income. The Company did not believe that there was any significant exposure related to impairment of deferred cost of sales, as its historical returns had been minimal and inventory turnover for its distributors generally ranged from 60 to 90 days. The Company’s sales to direct customers were made primarily pursuant to standard purchase orders for delivery of products.
The Company enters into contracts that may include various combinations of products and services that are capable of being distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations. To date, the majority of the revenue has been generated by sales associated with storage and networking products. Revenue from services has been insignificant. Performance obligations associated with product sales transactions are generally satisfied when control passes to customers upon shipment. Accordingly, product revenue is recognized at a point in time when control of the asset is transferred to the customer. The Company recognizes revenue when it satisfies a performance obligation by transferring control of a product to a customer in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. For product revenue, the performance obligation is deemed to be the delivery of the product and therefore, the revenue is generally recognized upon shipment to customers, net of accruals for estimated sales returns and rebates. These estimates are based on historical returns, analysis of credit memo data and other known factors. Actual returns could differ from these estimates. The Company accounts for rebates by recording reductions to revenue for rebates in the same period that the related revenue is recorded. The amount of these reductions is based upon the terms agreed to with the customer. Some of the Company’s sales are made to distributors under agreements allowing for price protection, price discounts and limited rights of stock rotation on products unsold by the distributors. Control passes to the distributor upon shipment, and terms and payment by the Company’s distributors is not contingent on resale of the product. Product revenue on sales made to distributors with price protection and stock rotation rights is recognized upon shipment to distributors, with an accrual for the variable consideration aspect of sales to distributors, estimated based on historical experience, including estimates for price discounts, price protection, rebates, and stock rotation programs.
The Company’s products are generally subject to warranty, which provides for the estimated future costs of replacement upon shipment of the product. The Company’s products carry a standard one-year warranty, with certain exceptions in which the warranty period can extend to more than one year based on contractual agreements. The warranty accrual is estimated primarily based on historical claims compared to historical revenues and assumes that the Company will have to replace products subject to a claim. From time to time, the Company becomes aware of specific warranty situations, and it records specific accruals to cover these exposures. Warranty expenses were not material for the periods presented.
Disaggregation of Revenue
The majority of the Company's revenue is generated from sales of the Company’s products. 
1)Storage products are comprised primarily of HDD, SSD Controllers, Fibre Channel Adapters and Data Center Storage Solutions.
2)Networking products are comprised primarily of Ethernet Switches, Ethernet Transceivers, Ethernet NICs, Embedded Communications and Infrastructure Processors, Automotive Ethernet, Security Adapters and Processors as well as Connectivity products. In addition, this grouping includes a few legacy product lines in which the Company no longer invests, but will generate revenue for several years. 
3)Other products are comprised of primarily Printer Solutions, Application Processors and others. 
Contract Liabilities
Contract liabilities consist of the Company’s obligation to transfer goods or services to a customer for which the Company has received consideration or the amount is due from the customer. As of November 3, 2018, contract liability balances are comprised of variable consideration estimated based on a portfolio basis using the expected value methodology based on analysis of historical data, current economic conditions, and contractual terms. Variable consideration estimates consist of the estimated returns, price discounts, price protection, rebates, and stock rotation programs. As of the end of a reporting period, some of the performance obligations associated with contracts will have been unsatisfied or only partially satisfied. In accordance with the practical expedients available in the guidance, the Company does not disclose the value of unsatisfied performance obligations for contracts with an original expected duration of one year or less. Contract liabilities are included in accrued liabilities in the condensed consolidated balance sheets. 
The opening balance of contract liabilities at the beginning of the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 was $79.6 million. During the nine months ended November 3, 2018, contract liabilities increased by $562.1 million associated with variable consideration estimates, offset by $520.0 million decrease in such reserves primarily due to credit memos issued to customers. The ending balance of contract liabilities as of the third quarter of fiscal year 2019 was $121.7 million. 
Sales Commissions 
Sales commissions are generally earned by the salespersons based on shipments to customers. The Company has elected to apply the practical expedient to expense these costs when incurred as the amortization period is typically one year or less. These costs are recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses in the condensed consolidated statements of operations.
Note 13. Income Tax
The Company’s tax provision for interim periods is determined using an estimate of its annual effective tax rate, adjusted for discrete items, if any, that arise during the period. Each quarter, the Company updates its estimate of the annual effective tax rate, and if the estimated annual effective tax rate changes, the Company makes a cumulative adjustment in such period. The Company’s quarterly tax provision, and estimate of its annual effective tax rate, is subject to variation due to several factors, including variability in accurately predicting our pre-tax income or loss and the mix of jurisdictions to which they relate, intercompany transactions, the applicability of special tax regimes, changes in how we do business, and acquisitions, as well as the integration of such acquisitions. 
The Company’s estimated effective tax rate for the year differs from the U.S. statutory rate of 21% primarily due to the benefit of a substantial portion of its earnings being taxed at rates lower than the U.S. statutory rate. The Company estimates that its effective tax rate could be adversely affected by pre-tax losses incurred in certain non-U.S. jurisdictions subject to tax rates lower than 21% for which it does not realize a tax benefit. These losses reduce the Company's pre-tax income without a corresponding reduction in its tax expense, and therefore increase its effective tax rate. 
On July 6, 2018, the Company completed the acquisition of Cavium, Inc. (“Cavium”). With this acquisition, the Company is projecting significant amounts of pre-tax losses in the U.S. in the current fiscal year for which an income tax benefit is realized at the U.S. statutory rate of 21%. This income tax benefit is in excess of the Company's projected income taxes from other jurisdictions. As a result, the Company's estimated annual effective tax rate reflects a consolidated income tax benefit. It is possible that significant negative evidence may become available to reach a conclusion that a valuation allowance will be needed, and as such, the Company may recognize a valuation allowance in the next 12 months.
The income tax expense of $9.3 million for the three months ended November 3, 2018 included tax expense related to discrete items recorded in the quarter of $1.9 million. The income tax benefit of $16.9 million for the nine months ended November 3, 2018, included a tax benefit from a net reduction in unrecognized tax benefits of $6.8 million, and a tax benefit related to other discrete items recorded in the nine month period of $0.9 million. 
The Company's gross unrecognized tax benefits were $150.5 million and $23.2 million on November 3, 2018 and February 3, 2018, respectively. The net increase to the Company's gross unrecognized tax benefits of $127.3 million is primarily the result of certain unrecognized tax benefits recorded in the Company's accounting for the acquisition of Cavium. If the gross unrecognized tax benefits as of November 3, 2018 were realized in a subsequent period, the Company would record a tax benefit of $120.2 million within its provision of income taxes at such time. The amount of interest and penalties accrued as of November 3, 2018 and February 3, 2018 was $14.3 million and $17.2 million, respectively. 
The Company operates under tax incentives in certain countries that may be extended if certain additional requirements are satisfied. The tax incentives are conditional upon meeting certain employment and investment thresholds. The impact of these tax incentives decreased foreign taxes by $0.6 million and $1.7 million for the three and nine months ended November 3, 2018 respectively, and $0.1 million and $1.6 million for the three and nine months ended October 28, 2017, respectively. The benefit of these tax incentives on net income per share was less than $0.01 per share for both the three and nine months ended November 3, 2018 and October 28, 2017.
The Company’s principal source of liquidity as of November 3, 2018 consisted of approximately $610 million of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, of which approximately $550 million was held by subsidiaries outside of Bermuda. The Company has not recognized a deferred tax liability on $440 million of the excess financial reporting basis over the tax basis of investments in foreign subsidiaries outside of Bermuda that is indefinitely reinvested. The Company plans to use such amounts to fund various activities outside of Bermuda, including working capital requirements, capital expenditures for expansion, funding of future acquisitions or other financing activities. If such amounts were no longer considered indefinitely reinvested, the Company would incur a tax expense of approximately $120 million.
Note 14. Net Income Per Share
The Company reports both basic net income per share, which is based on the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period, and diluted net income per share, which is based on the weighted average number of common shares outstanding and potentially dilutive shares outstanding during the period. 
Potential dilutive securities include dilutive common shares from share-based awards attributable to the assumed exercise of stock options, restricted stock units and employee stock purchase plan shares using the treasury stock method. Under the treasury stock method, potential common shares outstanding are not included in the computation of diluted net income per share if their effect is anti-dilutive.
Anti-dilutive potential shares from share-based awards are excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share for all periods reported above because either their exercise price exceeded the average market price during the period or the share-based awards were determined to be anti-dilutive based on applying the treasury stock method. Anti-dilutive potential shares are also excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share for the three months ended November 3, 2018 due to the net loss reported in that period. 
The information under the caption “Contingencies” as set forth in “Note 11 – Commitments and Contingencies” of our Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Part I, Item 1, is incorporated herein by reference. For additional discussion of certain risks associated with legal proceedings, see Part II, Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” immediately below.
Item 1A. Risk Factors
Risks Related to Our Acquisition of Cavium
Our acquisition of Cavium involves a number of risks, including, among others, associated with our use of a significant portion of our cash and our taking on significant indebtedness, other financial risks, integration risks, and risk associated with the reactions of customers, suppliers and employees.
•difficulties in achieving anticipated cost savings, synergies, business opportunities and growth prospects from combining the businesses;
•difficulties entering new markets or manufacturing in new geographies where we have no or limited direct prior experience;
•difficulties in managing the expanded operations of a significantly larger and more complex company; and
•challenges in maintaining existing, and establishing new, business relationships. 
On July 6, 2018, in connection with our acquisition of Cavium, we incurred substantial indebtedness pursuant to a Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement provides for a $900.0 million Term Loan. The Term Loan will mature on July 6, 2021. As of November 3, 2018, the outstanding principal balance of the Term Loan amounted to $825.0 million. 
In addition to the Term Loan under the Credit Agreement, on June 22, 2018, we completed a public offering of (i) $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of the Company’s 4.200% Senior Notes due 2023 (the “2023 Notes”) and (ii) $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of the Company’s 4.875% Senior Notes due 2028 (the “2028 Notes” and, together with the 2023 Notes, the “Senior Notes”). We are obligated to pay interest on the Senior Notes on June 22 and December 22 of each year, beginning on December 22, 2018. The 2023 Notes will mature on June 22, 2023 and the 2028 Notes will mature on June 22, 2028. 
•requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness,
thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts, execution of our business strategy, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes;
•limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the economy and the semiconductor industry;
•exposing us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate indebtedness; and
•making it more difficult to borrow additional funds in the future to fund growth, acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures and other purposes.
Although the Credit Agreement contains restriction on the incurrence of additional indebtedness and the indenture under which the Senior Notes were issued contains restrictions on creating liens and entering into certain sale-leaseback transactions, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and the additional indebtedness, liens or sale-leaseback transactions incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial.
The Credit Agreement and the Senior Notes contain customary events of default upon the occurrence of which, after any applicable grace period, the lenders would have the ability to immediately declare the loans due and payable in whole or in part. In such event, we may not have sufficient available cash to repay such debt at the time it becomes due, or be able to refinance such debt on acceptable terms or at all. Any of the foregoing could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.
The Credit Agreement and the indenture under which the Senior Notes were issued impose restrictions on our business.
The Credit Agreement and the indenture for the Senior Notes each contains a number of covenants imposing restrictions on our business. These restrictions may affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. The restrictions, among other things, restrict our ability and our subsidiaries’ ability to create or incur certain liens, incur or guarantee additional indebtedness, merge or consolidate with other companies, pay dividends, transfer or sell assets and make restricted payments. These restrictions are subject to a number of limitations and exceptions set forth in the Credit Agreement and the indenture for the Senior Notes. Our ability to meet the liquidity covenant set forth in the Credit Agreement may be affected by events beyond our control.
We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to enable us to service our indebtedness, including the Senior Notes, or to make anticipated capital expenditures. Our ability to pay our expenses and satisfy our debt obligations, refinance our debt obligations and fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by general economic, financial competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or to borrow sufficient funds in the future to service our debt, we may be required to sell assets, reduce capital expenditures, refinance all or a portion of our existing debt (including the Senior Notes) or obtain additional financing. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance our debt, sell assets or borrow more money on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and holders of our debt could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. In addition, a material default on our indebtedness could suspend our eligibility to register securities using certain registration statement forms under SEC guidelines that permit incorporation by reference of substantial information regarding us, potentially hindering our ability to raise capital through the issuance of our securities and increasing our costs of registration. 
We may, under certain circumstances, be required to repurchase the Senior Notes at the option of the holder.
We will be required to repurchase the Senior Notes at the option of each holder upon the occurrence of a change of control repurchase event as defined in the indenture for the Senior Notes. However, we may not have sufficient funds to repurchase the notes in cash at the time of any change of control repurchase event. Our failure to repurchase the Senior Notes upon a change of control repurchase event would be an event of default under the indenture for the Senior Notes and could cause a cross-default or acceleration under certain future agreements governing our other indebtedness. The repayment obligations under the Senior Notes may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a takeover of our company. If we were required to pay the Senior Notes prior to their scheduled maturity, it could have a significant negative impact on our cash and liquidity and could impact our ability to invest financial resources in other strategic initiatives.
•our ability to realize anticipated synergies in connection with the Cavium acquisition; 
•the highly competitive nature of the end markets we serve, particularly within the semiconductor industry;
•our dependence on a few customers for a significant portion of our revenue;
•severe financial hardship or bankruptcy of one or more of our major customers; 
•our ability to maintain a competitive cost structure for our manufacturing and assembly and test processes and our reliance on third parties to produce our products;
•cancellations, rescheduling or deferrals of significant customer orders or shipments, as well as the ability of our customers to manage inventory;
•gain or loss of a design win or key customer;
•seasonality in sales of consumer devices in which our products are incorporated;
•failure to qualify our products or our suppliers’ manufacturing lines;
•our ability to develop and introduce new and enhanced products in a timely and effective manner, as well as our ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in technology;
•impact of a significant natural disaster, including earthquakes, floods and tsunamis, particularly in certain regions in which we operate or own buildings, such as Santa Clara, California, and where our third party suppliers operate, such as Taiwan and elsewhere in the Pacific Rim; and
•our ability to attract, retain and motivate a highly skilled workforce, especially managerial, engineering, sales and marketing personnel.
•customers may discontinue sales or lose market share in the markets for which they purchase our products;
•customers may develop their own solutions or acquire fully developed solutions from third-parties;
•customers may be subject to severe business disruptions, including, but not limited to, those driven by financial instability; or
•customers may consolidate (for example, Western Digital acquired SanDisk in 2017, and Toshiba Corporation sold control of a portion of its semiconductor business in 2018), which could lead to changing demand for our products, replacement of our products by the merged entity with those of our competitors and cancellation of orders. 
•diversion of management attention from running our existing business;
•increased expenses, including, but not limited to, legal, administrative and compensation expenses related to newly hired or terminated employees;
•key personnel of an acquired company may decide not to work for us;
•increased costs to integrate or, in the case of a divestiture, separate the technology, personnel, customer base and business practices of the acquired or divested business or assets;
•assuming the legal obligations of the acquired company, including potential exposure to material liabilities not discovered in the due diligence process;
•potential damage to customer relationships or loss of synergies in the case of divestitures; and
•unavailability of acquisition financing on reasonable terms or at all.
Any acquired business, technology, service or product could significantly under-perform relative to our expectations and may not achieve the benefits we expect from possible acquisitions. Given that our resources are limited, our decision to pursue a transaction has opportunity costs; accordingly, if we pursue a particular transaction, we may need to forgo the prospect of entering into other transactions that could help us achieve our strategic objectives.
•IP disputes or other litigation; or
In addition, the semiconductor industry has experienced increased consolidation over the past several years. For example, Microchip Technology acquired Microsemi in May 2018, Avago Technologies Limited (now Broadcom Limited (“Broadcom”)) acquired Broadcom Corporation in February 2016 and LSI Corporation in May 2014; Intel acquired Altera Corporation in December 2015; and NXP Semiconductors acquired Freescale Semiconductor, Ltd. in December 2015. Consolidation among our competitors could lead to a changing competitive landscape, capabilities and market share, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage and harm our results of operations.
We rely on our customers to design our products into their systems, and the nature of the design process requires us to incur expenses prior to customer commitments to use our products or recognizing revenues associated with those expenses which may adversely affect our financial results. 
One of our primary focuses is on winning competitive bid selection processes, known as “design wins,” to develop products for use in our customers’ products. We devote significant time and resources in working with our customers’ system designers to understand their future needs and to provide products that we believe will meet those needs and these bid selection processes can be lengthy. If a customer’s system designer initially chooses a competitor’s product, it becomes significantly more difficult for us to sell our products for use in that system because changing suppliers can involve significant cost, time, effort and risk for our customers. Thus, our failure to win a competitive bid can result in our foregoing revenues from a given customer’s product line for the life of that product. In addition, design opportunities may be infrequent or may be delayed. Our ability to compete in the future will depend, in large part, on our ability to design products to ensure compliance with our customers’ and potential customers’ specifications. We expect to invest significant time and resources and to incur significant expenses to design our products to ensure compliance with relevant specifications. 
We often incur significant expenditures in the development of a new product without any assurance that our customers’ system designers will select our product for use in their applications. We often are required to anticipate which product designs will generate demand in advance of our customers expressly indicating a need for that particular design. Even if our customers’ system designers select our products, a substantial period of time will elapse before we generate revenues related to the significant expenses we have incurred. 
•our customers usually require a comprehensive technical evaluation of our products before they incorporate them into their designs.
•it can take from six months to three years from the time our products are selected to commence commercial shipments; and
Additionally, even if system designers use our products in their systems, we cannot assure you that these systems will be commercially successful or that we will receive significant revenue from the sales of our products for those systems. As a result, we may be unable to accurately forecast the volume and timing of our orders and revenues associated with any new product introductions. 
A significant portion of our business is dependent on the HDD and SSD storage industry, which is highly cyclical, experiences rapid technological change, is subject to industry consolidation and is facing increased competition from alternative technologies.
The HDD industry is intensely competitive and technology inflections are happening rapidly. This industry has historically been cyclical, with periods of increased demand and rapid growth followed by periods of oversupply and subsequent contraction. These cycles may affect us because some of our largest customers participate in this industry.
HDD manufacturers tend to order more components than they may need during growth periods, and sharply reduce orders for components during periods of contraction. Rapid technological changes in the HDD industry often result in shifts in market share among the industry’s participants. If the HDD manufacturers using our products do not retain or increase their market share, our sales may decrease.
We depend on a few customers for our SSD controllers and as such, the loss of any SSD controller customer or a significant reduction in sales we make to them may harm our financial condition and results of operations. SSD customers have, and may in the future develop their own controllers, which could pose a challenge to our market share in the SSD space.
Substantially all of our products are manufactured by third-party foundries located in Taiwan, and other sources are located in China, Germany, South Korea, Singapore and the United States. In addition, substantially all of our third-party assembly and testing facilities are located in China, Malaysia, Singapore and Taiwan. Because of the geographic concentration of these third-party foundries, as well as our assembly and test subcontractors, we are exposed to the risk that their operations may be disrupted by regional disasters including, for example, earthquakes (particularly in Taiwan and elsewhere in the Pacific Rim close to fault lines), tsunamis or typhoons, or by political, social or economic instability. In the case of such an event, our revenue, cost of goods sold and results of operations would be negatively impacted. In addition, there are limited numbers of alternative foundries and identifying and implementing alternative manufacturing facilities would be time consuming. As a result, if we needed to implement alternate manufacturing facilities, we could experience significant expenses and delays in product shipments, which could harm our results of operations.
No Guarantee of Capacity or Supply
While we attempt to create multiple sources for our products, most of our products are not manufactured at more than one foundry at any given time, and our products typically are designed to be manufactured in a specific process at only one of these foundries. Accordingly, if one of our foundries is unable to provide us with components as needed, it would be difficult for us to transition the manufacture of our products to other foundries, and we could experience significant delays in securing sufficient supplies of those components. This could result in a material decline in our revenue, net income and cash flow.
In order to secure sufficient foundry capacity when demand is high and to mitigate the risks described in the foregoing paragraph, we may enter into various arrangements with suppliers that could be costly and harm our results of operations, such as nonrefundable deposits with or loans to foundries in exchange for capacity commitments, or contracts that commit us to purchase specified quantities of integrated circuits over extended periods. We may not be able to make any such arrangement in a timely fashion or at all, and any arrangements may be costly, reduce our financial flexibility, and not be on terms favorable to us. Moreover, if we are able to secure foundry capacity, we may be obligated to use all of that capacity or incur penalties. These penalties may be expensive and could harm our financial results.
Uncertain Yields and Quality
Commodity Prices
In order to remain competitive, we expect to continue to transition our semiconductor products to increasingly smaller line width geometries. This transition requires us to modify the manufacturing processes for our products and to redesign some products. In addition, the cost of developing products with increasingly smaller line width geometries requires significantly higher investment and risk. We periodically evaluate the benefits, on a product-by-product basis, of migrating to smaller geometry process technologies to reduce our costs. In the past, we have experienced some difficulties in shifting to smaller geometry process technologies or new manufacturing processes, which resulted in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. We may face similar difficulties, delays and expenses as we continue to transition our products to smaller geometry processes.
We are dependent on our relationships with our foundry subcontractors to transition to smaller geometry processes successfully. We cannot ensure that the foundries we use will be able to effectively manage the transition or that we will be able to maintain our existing foundry relationships or develop new ones. If we or any of our foundry subcontractors experience significant delays in this transition or fail to efficiently implement this transition, we could experience reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses, all of which could harm our relationships with our customers and our results of operations.
As smaller geometry processes become more prevalent, we expect to continue to integrate greater levels of functionality, as well as customer and third-party intellectual property, into our products. However, we may not be able to achieve higher levels of design integration or deliver new integrated products on a timely basis, if at all. Moreover, even if we are able to achieve higher levels of design integration, such integration may have a short-term adverse impact on our results of operations, as we may reduce our revenue by integrating the functionality of multiple chips into a single chip.
Under Bermuda law, our articles of association and bye-laws and certain indemnification agreements to which we are a party, we have an obligation to indemnify, or we have otherwise agreed to indemnify, certain of our current and former directors and officers with respect to past, current and future investigations and litigation. For example, we have incurred significant indemnification expenses in connection with the Audit Committee's independent investigation completed in March 2016 and related shareholder litigation and pending government investigations. In connection with some of these pending matters, we are required to, or we have otherwise agreed to, advance, and have advanced, legal fees and related expenses to certain of our current and former directors and officers and expect to continue to do so while these matters are pending. 
Indemnification obligations may not be “covered matters” under our directors’ and officers’ liability insurance, or there may be insufficient coverage available. Further, in the event the directors and officers are ultimately determined not to be entitled to indemnification, we may not be able to recover any amounts we previously advanced to them.
We cannot provide any assurances that future indemnification claims, including the cost of fees, penalties or other expenses, will not exceed the limits of our insurance policies, that such claims are covered by the terms of our insurance policies or that our insurance carrier will be able to cover our claims. Additionally, to the extent there is coverage of these claims, the insurers also may seek to deny or limit coverage in some or all of these matters. Furthermore, the insurers could become insolvent and unable to fulfill their obligation to defend, pay or reimburse us for insured claims. Accordingly, we cannot be sure that claims will not arise that are in excess of the limits of our insurance or that are not covered by the terms of our insurance policy. Due to these coverage limitations, we may incur significant unreimbursed costs to satisfy our indemnification obligations, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
•loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products;
•material recall and replacement costs;
•delay in revenue recognition or loss of revenue; 
•writing down the inventory of defective products; 
•the diversion of the attention of our engineering personnel from product development efforts; 
•damage to our reputation in the industry that could adversely affect our relationships with our customers. 
We have experienced a significant transition at the executive management level in the last two years. If our executive team is unable to engage and align mid-management or attract and retain the key talent needed for us to timely achieve our business objectives, our business and results of operations could be harmed.
Our executive management team has gone through a complete transition in the last two years, including the hiring of a new President and CEO, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer and Controller, Chief Operations Officer, Chief Technology Officer, Chief Administration and Legal Officer, Executive Vice President of Worldwide Sales and Marketing and the appointment of new leaders for our corporate development organization and our storage, and networking and connectivity groups. In addition, we have added two new senior executives in connection with our acquisition of Cavium. 
While the individual members of our executive management team each have significant industry-related experience, they previously had not worked together as a group and it will take time for them to become an integrated management team. Delays in the integration of our management team could affect our ability to implement our business strategy, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 
We believe our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial, engineering, sales and marketing personnel. The competition for qualified technical personnel with significant experience in the design, development, manufacturing, marketing and sales of integrated circuits is intense, both in the Silicon Valley where our U.S. operations are based and in global markets in which we operate. Our inability to attract qualified personnel, including hardware and software engineers and sales and marketing personnel, could delay the development and introduction of, and harm our ability to sell, our products. Changes to United States immigration policies that restrict our ability to attract and retain technical personnel may negatively affect our research and development efforts.
We typically do not enter into employment agreements with any of our key technical personnel and the loss of such personnel could harm our business, as their knowledge of our business and industry would be extremely difficult to replace. The impact on employee morale experienced in connection with our restructuring efforts in fiscal 2017 and 2018, which eliminated approximately 900 jobs worldwide, could make it more difficult for us to add to our workforce when needed due to speculation regarding our future restructuring activities. In addition, as a result of the Cavium acquisition, our current and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their futures that may impair our ability to retain, recruit or motivate key management, engineering, technical and other personnel. 
We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secret laws, contractual provisions, confidentiality agreements, licenses and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies. We also enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants and business partners, and control access to and distribution of our documentation and other proprietary information. Notwithstanding these agreements, we have experienced disputes with employees regarding ownership of intellectual property in the past. To the extent that any third party has a claim to ownership of any relevant technologies used in our products, we may not be able to recognize the full revenue stream from such relevant technologies.
We rely on third-party distributors and manufacturers’ representatives and the failure of these distributors and manufacturers’ representatives to perform as expected could reduce our future sales.
From time to time, we enter into relationships with distributors and manufacturers’ representatives to sell our products, and we are unable to predict the extent to which these partners will be successful in marketing and selling our products. Moreover, many of our distributors and manufacturers’ representatives also market and sell competing products, and may terminate their relationships with us at any time. Our future performance will also depend, in part, on our ability to attract additional distributors or manufacturers’ representatives that will be able to market and support our products effectively, especially in markets in which we have not previously distributed our products. If we cannot retain or attract quality distributors or manufacturers’ representatives, our sales and results of operations will be harmed.
A substantial portion of our business is conducted outside of the United States and, as a result, we are subject to foreign business, political and economic risks. All of our products are manufactured outside of the United States. Our current qualified integrated circuit foundries are located in the same region within Taiwan, and our primary assembly and test subcontractors are located in the Pacific Rim region. In addition, many of our customers are located outside of the United States, primarily in Asia, which further exposes us to foreign risks. Sales shipped to customers with operations in Asia represented approximately 88% and 94% of our net revenue in the nine months ended November 3, 2018 and October 28, 2017, respectively.
We also have substantial operations outside of the United States. These operations are directly influenced by the political and economic conditions of the region in which they are located and, with respect to Israel, possible military hostilities periodically affecting the region that could affect our operations there. We anticipate that our manufacturing, assembly, testing and sales outside of the United States will continue to account for a substantial portion of our operations and revenue in future periods.
•political, social and economic instability, including wars, terrorism, political unrest, boycotts, curtailment of trade and other business restrictions;
•compliance with domestic and foreign export and import regulations, including pending changes thereto, and difficulties in obtaining and complying with domestic and foreign export, import and other governmental approvals, permits and licenses;
•local laws and practices that favor local companies, including business practices in which we are prohibited from engaging by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-corruption laws and regulations;
•difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations;
•trade restrictions, higher tariffs, worsening trade relationship between the United States and China, or changes in cross border taxation, particularly in light of the recently imposed tariffs announced by the Trump administration; 
•exposure to local banking, currency control and other financial-related risks.
Moreover, the international nature of our business subjects us to risk associated with the fluctuation of the U.S. dollar versus foreign currencies. Decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar versus currencies in jurisdictions where we have large fixed costs, or where our third-party manufacturers have significant costs, will increase the cost of such operations which could harm our results of operations.
We must comply with a variety of existing and future laws and regulations that could impose substantial costs on us and may adversely affect our business.
In addition, we are subject to the “conflict mineral rules” promulgated by the SEC, which impose disclosure requirements on us regarding the use of conflict minerals mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries in our products and the procedures our manufacturer’s use to prevent the sourcing of such conflict minerals. The ongoing implementation of these requirements could affect the sourcing, availability and pricing of minerals used in the manufacture of semiconductor devices, including our products. As a result, there may only be a limited pool of suppliers who provide conflict-free metals, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain products in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices, which could adversely affect our operations and product margins. Additionally, if we are unable to sufficiently source conflict-free metals, we may face difficulties in satisfying customers who may require that the products they purchase from us are conflict-free, which may harm our sales and operating results.
Changes in existing taxation benefits, rules or practices may adversely affect our financial results.
Matters relating to or arising from our Audit Committee investigation, including regulatory proceedings, litigation matters and potential additional expenses, may adversely affect our business and results of operations. 
As previously disclosed in our public filings, in March 2016, the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors completed an investigation that generally included a review of certain revenue recognized in the first and second quarters of fiscal 2016 and the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015, including transactions that would have, in the normal course of events and but for action by certain Marvell employees, been completed and recognized in a subsequent quarter (referred to internally as “pull-ins”), the accrual of a litigation reserve in the second quarter of fiscal 2016, and the stated belief by Marvell’s former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of ownership of certain patent rights related to the Final-Level Cache invention and his later assignment of associated patent rights to Marvell. We are also the subject of investigations by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the U.S. Attorney related to these matters. We are fully cooperating with the SEC and the U.S. Attorney with respect to those investigations.
We incurred significant expenses related to legal, accounting, and other professional services in connection with the investigations and related matters and related remediation efforts. In addition, we incurred significant legal expenses in connection with the litigation and settlement of securities class actions or other lawsuits that were filed against us, our directors and officers. The expenses incurred, the impact of our delay in fiscal 2016 and the beginning of fiscal 2017 in meeting our periodic reports on the confidence of investors, employees and customers, and the diversion of the attention of the management team that occurred adversely affected our business, financial condition and results of operations or cash flows. Any future such investigations or additional lawsuits may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
During fiscal 2016 and continuing through the third quarter of fiscal 2018, we identified material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, which have since been remediated. If we are unable to develop, implement and maintain effective internal controls in future periods, our consolidated financial statements could contain material misstatements which would cause us to issue a restatement thereof. A restatement of our consolidated financial statements could cause our investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and lead to a decline in our stock price.
The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and SEC rules require that management report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures. Among other things, management must conduct an assessment of internal control over financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. During fiscal 2016 and continuing through the third quarter of fiscal 2018, we identified material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting. While we have remediated these material weaknesses as of February 3, 2018, the remediation process absorbed significant management attention and we incurred significant expenses relating to the remediation.  
Any control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting will not necessarily prevent all error and all fraud. Controls can also be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. In addition, we may modify the design and operating effectiveness of our internal controls, which could affect the overall effectiveness or evaluation of the control system in the future by us or our independent registered public accounting firm. We cannot ensure that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions, as controls may become inadequate due to changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could limit our ability to provide reliable financial reports, or to detect and prevent fraud, which would harm our business.
•limit or restrict the type of work that employees involved in such litigation may perform for us;
We had approximately $5.5 billion of goodwill on our consolidated balance sheet as of November 3, 2018. Under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, we are required to review our intangible assets including goodwill for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable. We perform an assessment of goodwill for impairment annually on the last business day of our fiscal fourth quarter and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of goodwill may not be recoverable. 
 We have identified that our business operates as a single operating segment with two primary components (Storage and Networking), which we have concluded can be aggregated into a single reporting unit for purposes of testing goodwill impairment. The fair value of the reporting unit is determined by taking our market capitalization as determined through quoted market prices and as adjusted for a control premium and other relevant factors. If our fair value declines to below our carrying value, we could incur significant goodwill impairment charges, which could negatively impact our financial results. If in the future a change in our organizational structure results in more than one reporting unit, we will be required to allocate our goodwill and perform an assessment of goodwill for impairment in each reporting unit. As a result, we could have an impairment of goodwill in one or more of such future reporting units.
If we were classified as a passive foreign investment company, there would be adverse tax consequences to U.S. holders of our ordinary shares.
If we were classified as a “passive foreign investment company” or “PFIC” under section 1297 of the Internal Revenue Code, of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), for any taxable year during which a U.S. holder holds ordinary shares, such U.S. holder generally would be taxed at ordinary income tax rates on any gain realized on the sale or exchange of the ordinary shares and on any “excess distributions” (including constructive distributions) received on the ordinary shares. Such U.S. holder could also be subject to a special interest charge with respect to any such gain or excess distribution.
We would be classified as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes in any taxable year in which either (i) at least 75% of our gross income is passive income or (ii) on average, the percentage of our assets that produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income is at least 50% (determined on an average gross value basis). We were not classified as a PFIC for fiscal year 2018 or in any prior taxable year. Whether we will, in fact, be classified as a PFIC for any subsequent taxable year depends on our assets and income over the course of the relevant taxable year and, as a result, cannot be predicted with certainty. In particular, because the total value of our assets for purposes of the asset test will be calculated based upon the market price of our ordinary shares, a significant and sustained decline in the market price of our ordinary shares and corresponding market capitalization relative to our passive assets could result in our being classified as a PFIC. There can be no assurance that we will not be classified as a PFIC in the future or the Internal Revenue Service will not challenge our determination concerning PFIC status for any prior period.
Our insurance policies may not be adequate to fully offset losses from covered incidents, and we do not have coverage for certain losses. For example, there is very limited coverage available with respect to the services provided by our third-party foundries and assembly and test subcontractors. In the event of a natural disaster (such as an earthquake or tsunami), political or military turmoil, widespread health issues or other significant disruptions to their operations, insurance may not adequately protect us from this exposure. We believe our existing insurance coverage is consistent with common practice, economic considerations and availability considerations. If our insurance coverage is insufficient to protect us against unforeseen catastrophic losses, any uncovered losses could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.
We are subject to the risks of owning real property.
•the possibility of environmental contamination and the costs associated with remediating any environmental problems;
•adverse changes in the value of these properties due to interest rate changes, changes in the neighborhood in which the property is located, or other factors;
•the possible need for structural improvements in order to comply with zoning, seismic and other legal or regulatory requirements;
•the potential disruption of our business and operations arising from or connected with a relocation due to moving to or renovating the facility;
•increased cash commitments for improvements to the buildings or the property, or both;
•increased operating expenses for the buildings or the property, or both;
•possible disputes with tenants or other third parties related to the buildings or the property, or both; 
•failure to achieve expected cost savings due to extended non-occupancy of a vacated property intended to be leased; and
Risks Related to Owning Marvell Common Shares
We are organized under the laws of Bermuda. As a result, it may not be possible for our shareholders to affect service of process within the United States upon us, or to enforce against us in U.S. courts judgments based on the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States. There is significant doubt as to whether the courts of Bermuda would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state, or hear actions brought in Bermuda against us or those persons based on those laws. The United States and Bermuda do not currently have a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. Therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any federal or state court in the United States based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on U.S. federal or state securities laws, would not be automatically enforceable in Bermuda.
Our Bye-Laws contain a broad waiver by our shareholders of any claim or right of action, both individually and on our behalf, against any of our officers and directors. The waiver applies to any action taken by an officer or director, or the failure of an officer or director to take any action, in the performance of his or her duties with or for us, other than with respect to any matter involving any fraud or dishonesty on the part of the officer or director or to any matter arising under U.S. federal securities laws. This waiver will limit the rights of our shareholders to assert claims against our officers and directors unless the act complained of involves fraud or dishonesty or arises as a result of a breach of U.S. federal securities laws. Therefore, so long as acts of business judgment do not involve fraud or dishonesty or arise as a result of a breach of U.S. federal securities laws, they will not be subject to shareholder claims under Bermuda law. For example, shareholders will not have claims against officers and directors for a breach of trust, unless the breach rises to the level of fraud or dishonesty, or arises as a result of a breach of U.S. federal securities laws.
Our Bye-Laws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in corporate control, even if the change in corporate control would benefit our shareholders.
Our Bye-Laws contain change in corporate control provisions, which include authorizing the issuance of preferred shares without shareholder approval. This provision could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our shareholders.
