•the outcome of pending or future litigation and legal and regulatory proceedings.
We are a fabless semiconductor provider of high-performance, application-specific standard products. Our core strength is developing complex System-on-a-Chip (“SoC”) devices, leveraging our technology portfolio of intellectual property in the areas of analog, mixed-signal, digital signal processing, and embedded and standalone integrated circuits. We also develop integrated hardware platforms along with software that incorporates digital computing technologies designed and configured to provide an optimized computing solution. Our broad product portfolio includes devices for storage, networking and connectivity.
On July 6, 2018, we completed our acquisition of Cavium. Cavium is a provider of highly integrated semiconductor processors that enable intelligent processing for wired and wireless infrastructure and cloud for networking, communications, storage and security applications. Cavium designs, develops and markets semiconductor processors for intelligent and secure networks. Cavium's operating results from the acquisition date through our second quarter ended August 4, 2018 have been included in our consolidated financial statements. See “Note 3 - Business Combination” of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion regarding our acquisition of Cavium. 
In the second quarter of fiscal 2019, our net revenue increased year over year by 10.0% from $604.8 million net revenue in the second quarter fiscal 2018 compared with $665.3 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2019. The increase was primarily due to a 15% increase in our networking product sales and 8% increase in our storage product sales, with sales benefiting from our acquisition of Cavium. This increase was partially offset by decreased sales of our other products, which decreased by 3% in relation to the three months ended July 29, 2017. Our net revenue for the six months ended August 4, 2018 increased by $92.5 million compared to net revenue for the six months ended July 29, 2017. The increase was primarily due to increased sales of our networking products by 13% and storage products by 6%, with sales benefiting from our acquisition of Cavium. The growth was offset by decreased sales of our other products, which decreased by 6% in relation to the six months ended July 29, 2017. 
Capital Return Program. We remain committed to delivering shareholder value through our dividend program. We returned $69.2 million to stockholders in the six months ended August 4, 2018 in the form of cash dividend payments. 
Cash and Short Term Investments. Our total cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments were $523.7 million at August 4, 2018, which was lower than our balance of $1.8 billion at our fiscal year ended February 3, 2018. The decrease was primarily due to cash paid for the Cavium acquisition of $2.6 billion and cash paid on debt principal payments of $606.1 million, offset by proceeds from debt financing of $1.9 billion. 
We continuously monitor the creditworthiness of our major customers and distributors and believe the distributors’ sales to diverse end customers and geographies further serve to mitigate our exposure to credit risk.
Most of our sales are made to customers located outside of the United States, primarily in Asia, and all of our products are manufactured outside the United States. Sales shipped to customers with operations in Asia represented approximately 89% and 91% of our net revenue in the three and six months ended August 4, 2018, and approximately 95% of net revenue in both the three and six months ended July 29, 2017, respectively. Because many manufacturers and manufacturing subcontractors of our customers are located in Asia, we expect that most of our net revenue will continue to be represented by sales to our customers in that region. For risks related to our global operations, see Part II, Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” including but not limited to the risk detailed under the caption "We face additional risks due to the extent of our global operations since a majority of our products, and those of our customers, are manufactured and sold outside of the United States. The occurrence of any or a combination of the additional risks described below would significantly and negatively impact our business and results of operations."
Except for the accounting policy for revenue recognition that was updated as a result of adopting the new accounting standard on the recognition of revenue from contracts with customers, and the estimates involved with the purchase accounting associated with Cavium business combination, there have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates from the information provided in the “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” section of our Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 3, 2018. See “Note 5. Revenue - New Revenue Recognition Policy Including Significant Judgments and Estimates,” "Note 3. Business Combination" and "Note 6. Goodwill and Acquired Intangible Assets, Net" for additional information.
 At the beginning of fiscal year 2019, we adopted the new revenue recognition standard using the modified retrospective method. Refer to “Note 5 - Revenue” for further information. 
Our net revenue for the three months ended August 4, 2018 increased by $60.6 million compared to net revenue for the three months ended July 29, 2017. This was primarily due to increased sales of our networking products by 15% and higher sales of our storage products by 8%, with sales benefiting from our acquisition of Cavium, which occurred in the second quarter of fiscal year 2019. This increase was partially offset by decreased sales of our other products, which were down 3% compared to the three months ended July 29, 2017. 
Our net revenue for the six months ended August 4, 2018 increased by $92.5 million compared to net revenue for the six months ended July 29, 2017. This increase was primarily due to increased sales of our networking products by 13% and increased sales of our storage products by 6%, with sales benefiting from our acquisition of Cavium. This growth was offset by a decline in other products, which were down 6% compared to the six months ended July 29, 2017.
In the three months ended August 4, 2018, unit shipments were 6% higher and average selling prices increased 4% compared to the three months ended July 29, 2017. In the six months ended August 4, 2018, unit shipments were 7% higher and average selling prices were flat compared to the six months ended July 29, 2017. 
Research and development expenses increased by $35.4 million in the three months ended August 4, 2018 compared to the three months ended July 29, 2017. The increase was primarily due to additional costs from our acquisition of Cavium. The increase primarily consisted of $30.1 million of higher employee personnel-related costs, $2.1 million decrease in non-recurring engineering credits and $1.7 million of higher other personnel-related costs.
Research and development increased by $24.1 million in the six months ended August 4, 2018, compared to the six months ended July 29, 2017. The increase was due primarily to additional costs from our acquisition of Cavium. The increase primarily consisted of $29.0 million of higher employee personnel-related costs, partially offset by $3.8 million of lower computer-aided design software costs. 
Selling, general and administrative expense increased by $78.0 million in the three months ended August 4, 2018 compared to the three months ended July 29, 2017. The increase was primarily due to additional costs from our acquisition of Cavium. The increase primarily consisted of an increase of $39.3 million in employee personnel-related costs, $30.6 million in higher merger-related costs and $7.0 million of higher intangibles amortization expense. 
Selling, general and administrative expense increased by $95.3 million in the six months ended August 4, 2018 compared to the six months ended July 29, 2017. The increase was due primarily to additional costs from our acquisition of Cavium. The increase primarily consisted of an increase of $45.8 million in merger-related costs, $41.7 million in higher employee personnel-related costs and $7.0 million of higher intangibles amortization expense. 
We recognized $35.4 million and $37.0 million of total restructuring related charges in the three and six months ended August 4, 2018 as the Company continues to evaluate its existing operations to increase operational efficiency, decrease costs and increase profitability. See “Note 7 - Restructuring and Other Related Charges” for further information. 
Interest income decreased by $0.3 million in the three months ended August 4, 2018 compared to the three months ended July 29, 2017. The decrease is primarily due to the sale of investments. Interest income increased by $2.3 million in the six months ended August 4, 2018 compared to the six months ended July 29, 2017. The increase is primarily due to higher interest rates over the period the investments were held. 
Other income (loss), net, changed by $6.1 million and $4.5 million in the three and six months ended August 4, 2018, respectively, compared to the three and six months ended July 29, 2017. The change is primarily due to a $5.1 million gain from the sale of a business recognized in the three and six months ended July 29, 2017. 
Our principal source of liquidity as of August 4, 2018 consisted of approximately $520 million of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, of which approximately$510 million was held by subsidiaries outside of Bermuda. We have not recognized a deferred tax liability on $432 million of the excess financial reporting basis over the tax basis of investments in subsidiaries outside of Bermuda that is indefinitely reinvested. We plan to use such amounts to fund various activities outside of Bermuda, including working capital requirements, capital expenditures for expansion, funding of future acquisitions or other financing activities. If such amounts were no longer considered indefinitely reinvested, we would incur a tax expense of approximately $113 million.
In June 2018, we executed debt agreements to obtain a $900 million term loan and $1.0 billion of senior unsecured notes in order to fund the Cavium acquisition. In addition, we executed a debt agreement in June 2018 to obtain a $500 million Revolving Credit Facility, which was undrawn as of August 4, 2018. See “Note 4 - Debt” for further information. 
To the extent that our existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments together with cash generated by operations, and funds available under our Revolving Credit Facility are insufficient to fund our future activities, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financing. We may also acquire additional businesses, purchase assets or enter into other strategic arrangements in the future, which could also require us to seek debt or equity financing. Additional equity financing or convertible debt financing may be dilutive to our current shareholders. If we elect to raise additional funds, we may not be able to obtain such funds on a timely basis or on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, the equity or debt securities that we issue may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to our common shares.
Future payment of a regular quarterly cash dividend on our common shares and our planned repurchases of common stock will be subject to, among other things, the best interests of the Company and our shareholders, our results of operations, cash balances and future cash requirements, financial condition, developments in ongoing litigation, statutory requirements under Bermuda law, market conditions and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. Our dividend payments and repurchases of common stock may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends or repurchase shares at all or in any particular amounts.
Net cash flow provided by operating activities for the six months ended July 29, 2017 was $235.2 million. We had $271.9 million of net income, adjusted for $43.0 million of non-cash items, which was primarily driven by depreciation and amortization of $41.2 million, share-based compensation expense of $46.4 million and gain on the sales of discontinued operations and businesses of $47.4 million. The cash outflow from working capital of $79.7 million for the six months ended July 29, 2017 was primarily driven by increases in accounts receivable and inventory and a decrease in accrued liabilities. This outflow was offset by an increase in accounts payable. The increase in accounts receivable was driven primarily by the increase in revenue. The increase in inventory is associated with the build up of inventory related to our networking and storage products in preparation for next quarter's demand. The decrease in accrued liabilities was driven by a reduction of accruals for restructuring expenses and rebate, offset by an increase related to technology licenses. The increase in accounts payable was due to additional amounts owed for assembly and test services. 
For the six months ended July 29, 2017, net cash used in investing activities of $29.8 million was primarily driven by purchase of available-for-sale securities of $376.2 million, offset by sales and maturities of available-for-sale securities of $286.3 million and net proceeds of $72.2 million from the sale of our Broadband and LTE thin-modem businesses. 
For the six months ended July 29, 2017, net cash used in financing activities of $388.9 million was primarily attributable to $387.6 million for the repurchases of our common stock, $60.1 million for payment of our quarterly dividends, and $24.8 million minimum tax withholding payments on behalf of employees for net share settlements. These outflows were partially offset by proceeds of $97.8 million from employee stock plans. 
See “Note 12 – Commitments and Contingencies” in the Notes to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
There were no sales of unregistered equity securities during the three months ended August 4, 2018.
During the three months ended August 4, 2018, we suspended our share repurchase program in anticipation of the funding of our acquisition of Cavium. Therefore, there were no share repurchases during the three months ended August 4, 2018. Although share repurchases are temporarily suspended, we have $358.0 million of repurchase authority remaining under our current share repurchase program. 
