fls.txt
Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements included in: (1) “Financial Statements,” about the recognition of revenue in future periods, (2) “Management's Discussion and Analysis,” about: (a) trends affecting our business, including: (i) the impact of global economic and political conditions (ii) the impact of acquisitions on our business, (iii) the growth of our Services and Software segment and the resulting impact on operating margin, (iv) the focus on Services and Software and our expected growth opportunities, (b) our business strategies and expected results, (c) future payments, charges, use of accruals and expected cost-saving benefits associated with our productivity improvement plans, reorganization of business programs, and employee separation costs, (d) our ability and cost to repatriate funds, (e) our ability to settle the principal amount of the Senior Convertible Notes in cash, (f) our ability and cost to access the capital markets at our current ratings, (g) our ability to borrow and the amount available under our credit facilities, (h) our plans with respect to the level of outstanding debt, (i) the return of capital to shareholders through dividends and/or repurchasing shares, (j) the adequacy of our cash balances to meet current operating requirements, (k) potential contractual damages claims, and (l) the outcome and effect of ongoing and future legal proceedings, (3) "The impact of new FASB Accounting Standards Updates on our financial statements, (4) “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk,” about the impact of foreign currency exchange risks, (5) “Legal Proceedings,” about the ultimate disposition of pending legal matters, and (6) "Controls and Procedures," about the implementation of our enterprise resource planning systems.


item1.txt
However, an unfavorable resolution could have a material adverse effect on the Company's condensed consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of operations in the periods in which the matters are ultimately resolved, or in the periods in which more information is obtained that changes management's opinion of the ultimate disposition.
We are subject to laws and regulations regarding privacy, data protection and information security, and our actual or perceived failure to comply with such legal obligations could adversely affect our business.


item2.txt
The net sales increase for the second quarter of 2018 included $154 million from acquisitions, $26 million from favorable foreign currency rates and $24 million from the adoption of ASC 606.
The Services and Software segment net sales increase in the Americas was driven by the acquisitions of Plant and Kodiak Networks within the Software business and growth absent of acquisitions in both Services and Software.
The Services and Software segment net sales increase in EMEA was primarily driven by growth absent of acquisitions in Services.
The Services and Software segment net sales increase in AP was driven by the acquisition of Kodiak Networks in the Software business and growth absent of acquisitions in both Services and Software.
Gross margin was $822 million, or 46.7% of net sales, in the second quarter of 2018, compared to $690 million, or 46.1% of net sales, in the second quarter of 2017.
The increase in gross margin percentage was primarily driven by improved margins in Services, the adoption of ASC 606, and a favorable mix.
We recorded net charges of $71 million in the second quarter of 2018, compared to net charges of $37 million in the second quarter of 2017.
Net Other income was $13 million in the second quarter of 2018, compared to an expense of $4 million in the second quarter of 2017.
The net other income in the second quarter of 2018 was primarily comprised of $20 million of net periodic postretirement benefit and a $11 million foreign currency gain, partially offset by a $19 million loss on derivative instruments.
Net Earnings Attributable to Motorola Solutions, Inc. After taxes, we had net earnings attributable to Motorola Solutions, Inc. of $180 million, or $1.05 per diluted share, in the second quarter of 2018, compared to net earnings attributable to Motorola Solutions, Inc. of $131 million, or $0.78 per diluted share, in the second quarter of 2017.
The net sales increase for the first half of 2018 included $201 million from acquisitions, $65 million from favorable foreign currency rates and $39 million from the adoption of ASC 606.The increase in net sales is reflective of growth in every region.
Within the Products and Systems Integration segment, Devices net sales increased in the Americas and EMEA and decreased in AP and Systems and Systems Integration net sales increased in every region.
The Services and Software segment net sales increase in the Americas was driven by the acquisitions of Plant and Kodiak Networks within the Software business, the acquisition of Interexport in Services and growth absent of acquisitions in both Services and Software.
The Services and Software segment net sales increase in EMEA was primarily driven by growth absent of acquisitions in Services.
The Services and Software segment net sales increase in AP was driven by the acquisition of Kodiak Networks in the Software business and growth absent of acquisitions in both Services and the Software business.
Gross margin was $1.5 billion, or 46.2% of net sales, in the first half of 2018, compared to $1.3 billion, or 45.4% of net sales, in the first half of 2017.
The increase in gross margin percentage was primarily driven by favorable mix, the adoption of ASC 606, and improved margins in Services.
Net gains on sales of investments and businesses were $10 million in the first half of 2018 compared to net gains of $2 million in the first half of 2017.
Net Earnings Attributable to Motorola Solutions, Inc. After taxes, we had net earnings attributable to Motorola Solutions, Inc. of $297 million, or $1.73 per diluted share, in the first half of 2018, compared to net earnings attributable to Motorola Solutions, Inc. of $208 million, or $1.23 per diluted share, in the first half of 2017.
For the second quarter of 2018, the segment’s net sales represented 68% of our consolidated net sales, compared to 70% of our consolidated net sales for the second quarter of 2017.


item3.txt
As of June 30, 2018, we had outstanding foreign exchange contracts with notional amounts totaling $681 million, compared to $507 million outstanding as of December 31, 2017.
Management believes that these financial instruments should not subject us to undue risk due to foreign exchange movements because gains and losses on these contracts should generally offset gains and losses on the underlying assets, liabilities and transactions.


item4.txt
The system also includes the replacement of our current indirect procurement and service contract systems.
We have made appropriate changes to our internal controls over financial reporting as we have implemented the new system.


part2.txt
The Company is a defendant in various lawsuits, claims, and actions, which arise in the normal course of business.
The European Union ("EU") adopted the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) which took effect on May 25, 2018 harmonizing data protection laws across the EU.
The GDPR strengthens individual privacy rights and enhances data protection obligations for processors and controllers of personal data.


