Item 1. Financial Statements
Basis of Presentation
•Are prepared from the books and records without audit, and
•Include all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of the financial statements.
Business Description
We are a global supplier of specialty networking solutions built around two global business platforms - Enterprise Solutions and Industrial Solutions. Our comprehensive portfolio of solutions enables customers to transmit and secure data, sound, and video for mission critical applications across complex enterprise and industrial environments.
Our fiscal year and fiscal fourth quarter both end on December 31. Our fiscal first quarter ends on the Sunday falling closest to 91 days after December 31, which was March 31, 2019, the 90th day of our fiscal year 2019. Our fiscal second and third quarters each have 91 days. The nine months ended September 29, 2019 and September 30, 2018 included 272 and 273 days, respectively. 
•Level 1 – Quoted prices in active markets that are unadjusted and accessible at the measurement date for identical, unrestricted assets or liabilities;
•Level 2 – Quoted prices for identical assets and liabilities in markets that are not active, quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, or financial instruments for which significant inputs are observable, either directly or indirectly; and
•Level 3 – Prices or valuations that require inputs that are both significant to the fair value measurement and unobservable. 
As of and during the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019 and September 30, 2018, we utilized Level 1 inputs to determine the fair value of cash equivalents, and we utilized Level 2 and Level 3 inputs to determine the fair value of net assets acquired in business combinations (see Note 3). We did not have any transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements during the nine months ended September 29, 2019 and September 30, 2018.
We classify cash on hand and deposits in banks, including commercial paper, money market accounts, and other investments with an original maturity of three months or less, that we hold from time to time, as cash and cash equivalents. We periodically have cash equivalents consisting of short-term money market funds and other investments. As of September 29, 2019, we did not have any such cash equivalents on hand. The primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve our capital for the purpose of funding operations. We do not enter into investments for trading or speculative purposes. 
Contingent Liabilities
As of September 29, 2019, we were party to standby letters of credit, bank guaranties, and surety bonds totaling $9.7 million, $3.9 million, and $3.3 million, respectively.
Revenue Recognition
Subsequent Events
In June 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-07 (“ASU 2018-07”), Improvements to Nonemployee Share-Based Payment Accounting. The amendments in ASU 2018-07 expand the scope of Topic 718, Compensation - Stock Compensation, to include share-based payment transactions for acquiring goods and services from non-employees, and provide that non-employee share-based payment awards be measured at their grant-date fair value and the probability of satisfying performance conditions be taken into account when non-employee share-based payment awards contain such conditions. The standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018. We adopted ASU 2018-07 effective January 1, 2019. The adoption had no impact on our results of operations. 
The following tables present our revenues disaggregated by geography, based on the location of the customer purchasing the product.
The following tables present our revenues disaggregated by products, including software products, and support and services.
Opterna International Corp.
We acquired 100% of the shares of Opterna International Corp. (Opterna) on April 15, 2019 for a preliminary purchase price, net of cash acquired, of $51.7 million. Of the $51.7 million purchase price, $45.5 million and $0.4 million was paid on April 15, 2019 and September 25, 2019, respectively, with cash on hand. The acquisition included a potential earnout, which is based upon future Opterna financial targets through April 15, 2021. The maximum earnout consideration is $25.0 million, but based upon a third party valuation specialist using certain assumptions in a discounted cash flow model, the estimated fair value of the earnout included 
The above purchase price allocation is preliminary, and is subject to revision as additional information about the fair value of individual assets and liabilities becomes available. The preliminary measurement of receivables, inventories, intangible assets, goodwill, deferred income taxes, other assets and liabilities, and noncontrolling interests are subject to change. A change in the estimated fair value of the net assets acquired or noncontrolling interests will change the amount of the purchase price allocable to goodwill.
During the third quarter 2019, we recorded measurement-period adjustments that decreased goodwill by approximately $9.4 million primarily for changes in the fair value of the earnout. The impact of these adjustments to the consolidated statement of operations was immaterial. 
The preliminary fair value of acquired receivables is $5.3 million, which is equivalent to its gross contractual amount. 
For purposes of the above allocation, we based our preliminary estimate of the fair values for the acquired inventory, intangible assets, and noncontrolling interests on valuation studies performed by a third party valuation firm. We have estimated a preliminary fair value adjustment for inventories based on the estimated selling price of the work-in-process and finished goods acquired at the closing date less the sum of the costs to complete the work-in-process, the costs of disposal, and a reasonable profit allowance for our post acquisition selling efforts. We used various valuation methods including discounted cash flows, lost income, excess earnings, and relief from royalty to estimate the preliminary fair value of the identifiable intangible assets (Level 3 valuation). 
Our preliminary estimate of the fair values for the noncontrolling interests were based on the comparable EBITDA multiple valuation technique (Level 3 valuation).
The amortizable intangible assets reflected in the table above were determined by us to have finite lives. The useful life for the developed technology intangible asset was based on the estimated time that the technology provides us with a competitive advantage and thus approximates the period and pattern of consumption of the intangible asset. The useful life for the customer relationship intangible asset was based on our forecasts of estimated sales from recurring customers. The useful life of the backlog intangible asset was based on our estimate of when the ordered items would ship and control of the items transfers. The useful life for the trademarks was based on the period of time we expect to continue to go to market using the trademarks. 
Our consolidated revenues for the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019 included $9.1 million and $17.9 million, respectively, from Opterna. Our consolidated loss before taxes for the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019 included $(0.2) million and $(0.3) million, respectively, from Opterna. For the three months ended September 29, 2019, the loss before taxes included $3.1 million of severance and other restructuring costs, $1.4 million of amortization of intangible assets, and $(0.1) million of cost of sales related to the adjustment of acquired inventory to fair value. For the nine months ended September 29, 2019, the loss before taxes included $5.6 million of severance and other restructuring costs, $2.3 million of amortization of intangible assets, and $0.5 million of cost of sales related to the adjustment of acquired inventory to fair value. Our consolidated loss for the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019 included $0.0 million and $0.1 million, respectively, of net income attributable to noncontrolling interests of Opterna. 
The following table illustrates the unaudited pro forma effect on operating results as if the Opterna acquisition had been completed as of January 1, 2018.
We acquired the FutureLink product line and related assets from Suttle, Inc. on April 5, 2019 for a purchase price of $5.0 million, which was funded with cash on hand. The acquisition of FutureLink allows us to offer a more complete set of fiber product offerings. The results from the acquisition of FutureLink have been included in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements from April 5, 2019, and are reported within the Enterprise Solutions segment. The acquisition of FutureLink was not material to our financial position or results of operations. 
Net-Tech Technology, Inc.
We acquired 100% of the shares of Net-Tech Technology, Inc. (NT2) on April 25, 2018 for a purchase price of $8.5 million, which was funded with cash on hand. NT2 is an integrator of optical passive components and network optimization products used within broadband network applications where optical backhaul is used. NT2 is located in the United States. The results of NT2 have been included in our Consolidated Financial Statements from April 25, 2018, and are reported within the Enterprise Solutions segment. The NT2 acquisition was not material to our financial position or results of operations. 
For purposes of the above allocation, we based our estimate of the fair values for the acquired inventory; property, plant, and equipment; intangible assets; and deferred revenue on valuation studies performed by a third party valuation firm. We have estimated a fair value adjustment for inventories based on the estimated selling price of the work-in-process and finished goods acquired at the closing date less the sum of the costs to complete the work-in-process, the costs of disposal, and a reasonable profit allowance for our post acquisition selling efforts. To determine the value of the acquired property, plant, and equipment, we used various valuation methods, including both the market approach, which considers sales prices of similar assets in similar conditions (Level 2 valuation), and the cost approach, which considers the cost to replace the asset adjusted for depreciation (Level 3 valuation). We used various valuation methods including discounted cash flows, lost income, excess earnings, and relief from royalty to estimate the fair value of the identifiable intangible assets and deferred revenue (Level 3 valuation). 
The amortizable intangible assets reflected in the table above were determined by us to have finite lives. The useful life for the developed technology intangible asset was based on the estimated time that the technology provides us with a competitive advantage and thus approximates the period and pattern of consumption of the intangible asset. The useful life for the customer relationship intangible asset was based on our forecasts of estimated sales from recurring customers. The useful life of the backlog intangible asset was based on our estimate of when the ordered items would ship. The useful life for the trademarks was based on the period of time we expect to continue to go to market using the trademarks. 
SAM is included in our Grass Valley reporting unit, and as discussed further in Note 8, during the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019, we recognized a total goodwill and other asset impairment charge of $342.1 million for the Grass Valley reporting unit. 
Our consolidated revenues for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 included an estimated $25.3 million and $77.2 million, respectively, from SAM. Due to the integration of SAM into our existing business, we are unable to reasonably estimate the amount of income before taxes from SAM included in our consolidated financial statements. Our consolidated income before 
taxes for the three months ended September 30, 2018 included $7.1 million of severance and other restructuring costs, $3.7 million of amortization of intangible assets, and $0.6 million of cost of sales related to the adjustment of acquired inventory to fair value from SAM. Our consolidated income before taxes for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 included $36.6 million of severance and other restructuring costs, $8.7 million of amortization of intangible assets, and $1.8 million of cost of sales related to the adjustment of acquired inventory to fair value from SAM.
The following table illustrates the unaudited pro forma effect on operating results as if the SAM acquisition had been completed as of January 1, 2017.
The key measures of segment profit or loss are Segment Revenues and Segment EBITDA. Segment Revenues represent non-affiliate revenues and include revenues that would have otherwise been recorded by acquired businesses as independent entities but were not recognized in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income due to the effects of purchase accounting and the associated write-down of acquired deferred revenue to fair value. Segment EBITDA excludes certain items, including depreciation expense; amortization of intangibles; asset impairment; severance, restructuring, and acquisition integration costs; purchase accounting effects related to acquisitions, such as the adjustment of acquired inventory and deferred revenue to fair value; and other costs. We allocate corporate expenses to the segments for purposes of measuring Segment EBITDA. Corporate expenses are allocated on the basis of each segment’s relative EBITDA prior to the allocation.
Our measure of segment assets does not include cash, goodwill, intangible assets, deferred tax assets, or corporate assets. All goodwill is allocated to reporting units of our segments for purposes of impairment testing. 
For the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019, diluted weighted average shares outstanding do not include outstanding equity awards of 1.4 million and 1.2 million, respectively, because to do so would have been anti-dilutive. In addition, for both the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019, diluted weighted average shares outstanding do not include outstanding equity awards of 0.3 million because the related performance conditions have not been satisfied. Furthermore, for the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019, diluted weighted average shares outstanding do not include the weighted average impact of 1.1 million and 4.9 million shares, respectively, related to converting preferred shares into common shares because deducting the preferred stock dividends from net income was more dilutive.
For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, diluted weighted average shares outstanding do not include outstanding equity awards of 0.9 million and 0.8 million, respectively, because to do so would have been anti-dilutive. In addition, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, diluted weighted average shares outstanding do not include outstanding equity awards of 0.3 million and 0.2 million, respectively, because the related performance conditions have not been satisfied. Furthermore, for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, diluted weighted average shares outstanding do not include the impact of preferred shares that were converted into 6.9 million common shares, because deducting the preferred stock dividends from net income was more dilutive. 
For purposes of calculating diluted earnings per share, unvested restricted stock units are included to the extent that they are dilutive. In determining whether unvested restricted stock units are dilutive, each issuance of restricted stock units is considered separately.
Once a restricted stock unit has vested, it is included in the calculation of both basic and diluted weighted average shares outstanding.
We have operating and finance leases for properties, including manufacturing facilities, warehouses, and office space; as well as vehicles and certain equipment. We make certain judgments in determining whether a contract contains a lease in accordance with ASU 2016-02. Our leases have remaining lease terms of less than 1 year to 16 years, some of which include options to extend the lease for a period of up to 15 years and some include options to terminate the leases within 1 year. We do not assume renewals in our determination of the lease term unless the renewals are deemed to be reasonably certain as of the commencement date of the lease. Our lease agreements do not contain any material residual value guarantees or material variable lease payments.
We have entered into various short-term operating leases with an initial term of twelve months or less. These leases are not recorded on our balance sheet, and for the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019, the rent expense for short-term leases was not material.
As the rate implicit in most of our lease is not readily determinable, we use the incremental borrowing rate to determine the present value of the lease payments, which is unique to each leased asset, and is based upon the term of the lease, commencement date of the lease, local currency of the leased asset, and the credit rating of the legal entity leasing the asset. 
Depreciation and Amortization Expense
We recognized depreciation expense of $12.1 million and $37.2 million in the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019, respectively. We recognized depreciation expense of $11.7 million and $35.6 million in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively. 
We recognized amortization expense related to our intangible assets of $23.4 million and $71.2 million in the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019. We recognized amortization expense related to our intangible assets of $26.2 million and $76.3 million in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively. 
Due to its overall financial performance during the fiscal third quarter and a potential divestiture of the reporting unit, we performed an interim impairment test on the Grass Valley reporting unit, which resulted in a total goodwill and other asset impairment charge of $342.1 million for the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019. The Grass Valley reporting unit is part of our Enterprise Solutions Segment. The impairment charge consisted of impairments to goodwill, customer relationships, and trademarks of $326.1 million, $14.4 million, and $1.6 million, respectively. We determined the estimated fair values of the assets and of the reporting unit by calculating the present values of their estimated future cash flows.
In 2018, we began a restructuring program to integrate SAM with Grass Valley. The restructuring and integration activities were focused on achieving desired cost savings by consolidating existing and acquired facilities and other support functions. We did not recognize severance and other restructuring costs for this program during the three months ended September 29, 2019, and we recognized $3.0 million of severance and other restructuring costs for this program during the nine months ended September 29, 2019. We recognized $7.1 million and $36.6 million of severance and other restructuring costs for this program during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively. The costs were incurred by the Enterprise Solutions segment. The integration of these businesses is complete, and thus, we do not expect to incur any more costs for this program. 
In 2016, we began a program to consolidate our manufacturing footprint. The manufacturing consolidation was complete as of December 31, 2018. We recognized $4.3 million and $15.8 million of severance and other restructuring costs for this program during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018. The costs were incurred by the Enterprise Solutions and Industrial Solutions segments, as the manufacturing locations involved in the program serve both platforms. 
There were no significant severance accrual balances as of September 29, 2019 or December 31, 2018.
Revolving Credit Agreement due 2022
Our Revolving Credit Agreement provides a $400.0 million multi-currency asset-based revolving credit facility (the Revolver). The borrowing base under the Revolver includes eligible accounts receivable; inventory; and property, plant and equipment of certain of our subsidiaries in the U.S., Canada, Germany, and the Netherlands. The maturity date of the Revolver is May 16, 2022. Interest on outstanding borrowings is variable, based upon LIBOR or other similar indices in foreign jurisdictions, plus a spread that ranges from 1.25%-1.75%, depending upon our leverage position. We pay a commitment fee on our available borrowing capacity of 0.25%. In the event we borrow more than 90% of our borrowing base, we are subject to a fixed charge coverage ratio covenant. As of September 29, 2019, we had no borrowings outstanding on the Revolver, and our available borrowing capacity was $287.0 million. 
We have outstanding €350.0 million aggregate principal amount of 3.875% senior subordinated notes due 2028 (the 2028 Notes). The carrying value of the 2028 Notes as of September 29, 2019 is $383.5 million. The 2028 Notes are guaranteed on a senior subordinated basis by our current and future domestic subsidiaries. The 2028 Notes rank equal in right of payment with our senior subordinated notes due 2027, 2026, and 2025 and with any future subordinated debt, and they are subordinated to all of our senior debt and the senior debt of our subsidiary guarantors, including our Revolver. Interest is payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 of each year.
We have outstanding €450.0 million aggregate principal amount of 3.375% senior subordinated notes due 2027 (the 2027 Notes). The carrying value of the 2027 Notes as of September 29, 2019 is $493.0 million. The 2027 Notes are guaranteed on a senior subordinated basis by our current and future domestic subsidiaries. The 2027 Notes rank equal in right of payment with our senior subordinated notes due 2028, 2026, and 2025 and with any future subordinated debt, and they are subordinated to all of our senior debt and the senior debt of our subsidiary guarantors, including our Revolver. Interest is payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15 of each year. 
We have outstanding €200.0 million aggregate principal amount of 4.125% senior subordinated notes due 2026 (the 2026 Notes). The carrying value of the 2026 Notes as of September 29, 2019 is $219.1 million. The 2026 Notes are guaranteed on a senior subordinated basis by our current and future domestic subsidiaries. The 2026 Notes rank equal in right of payment with our senior subordinated notes due 2028, 2027, and 2025 and with any future subordinated debt, and they are subordinated to all of our senior debt and the senior debt of our subsidiary guarantors, including our Revolver. Interest is payable semiannually on April 15 and October 15 of each year.
We have outstanding €300.0 million aggregate principal amount of 2.875% senior subordinated notes due 2025 (the 2025 Notes). The carrying value of the 2025 Notes as of September 29, 2019 is $328.7 million. The 2025 Notes are guaranteed on a senior subordinated basis by our current and future domestic subsidiaries. The 2025 Notes rank equal in right of payment with our senior subordinated notes due 2028, 2027, and 2026 and with any future subordinated debt, and they are subordinated to all of our senior debt and the senior debt of our subsidiary guarantors, including our Revolver. Interest is payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 of each year. 
Fair Value of Long-Term Debt
The fair value of our senior subordinated notes as of September 29, 2019 was approximately $1,494.8 million based on quoted prices of the debt instruments in inactive markets (Level 2 valuation). This amount represents the fair value of our senior subordinated notes with a carrying value of $1,424.3 million as of September 29, 2019. 
All of our euro denominated notes were issued by Belden Inc., a USD functional currency entity. As of September 29, 2019, all of our outstanding foreign denominated debt is designated as a net investment hedge on the foreign currency risk of our net investment in our euro foreign operations. The objective of the hedge is to protect the net investment in the foreign operation against adverse changes in the euro exchange rate. The transaction gain or loss is reported in the translation adjustment section of other comprehensive income. For the nine months ended September 29, 2019 and September 30, 2018, the transaction gain associated with these notes that was reported in other comprehensive income was $62.1 million and $46.3 million, respectively. 
On November 29, 2018, our Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program, which allows us to purchase up to $300.0 million of our common stock through open market repurchases, negotiated transactions, or other means, in accordance with applicable securities laws and other restrictions. This program is funded with cash on hand and cash flows from operating activities. The program does not have an expiration date and may be suspended at any time at the discretion of the Company. During the three months ended September 29, 2019, we repurchased 0.5 million shares of our common stock under the share repurchase program for an aggregate cost of $27.2 million and an average price per share of $55.17. During the nine months ended September 29, 2019, we repurchased 0.9 million shares of our common stock under the share repurchase program for an aggregate cost of $50.0 million and an average price per share of $56.19. During the three months ended September 30, 2018, we repurchased 0.3 million shares of our common stock under a previous share repurchase program for an aggregate cost of $25.0 million and an average price per share of $72.62. During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we repurchased 1.8 million shares of our common stock under a previous share repurchase program for an aggregate cost of $125.0 million and an average price per share of $70.13.
Assets Held for Sale
We classify assets and liabilities as held for sale (disposal group) when management, having the authority to approve the action, commits to a plan to sell the disposal group, the sale is probable within one year, and the disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition. We also consider whether an active program to locate a buyer has been initiated, whether the disposal group is marketed actively for sale at a price that is reasonable in relation to its current fair value, and whether actions required to complete the plan indicate that it is unlikely that significant changes to the plan will be made or that the plan will be withdrawn. During the fourth quarter of 2019, we committed to a plan to sell Grass Valley, and at such time, met all of the criteria to classify the assets and liabilities of this business as held for sale. As a result, the Grass Valley disposal group, which is currently part of the Enterprise Solutions segment, will be included in discontinued operations commencing in the fourth quarter. We also ceased 
depreciating and amortizing the assets of the disposal group once they met the held for sale criteria in the fourth quarter. We intend to complete the sale of the Grass Valley disposal group during the next twelve months. As discussed in Note 8, we recognized an impairment charge for the disposal group of $342.1 million during the third quarter of 2019, which consisted of impairments to goodwill, customer relationships, and trademarks of $326.1 million, $14.4 million, and $1.6 million, respectively. As of September 29, 2019, Grass Valley had total assets and total liabilities of $491.8 million and $194.0 million, respectively, and accumulated other comprehensive losses of $73.2 million.
Cost Reduction Program
Item 1: Legal Proceedings
Item 1A: Risk Factors
