The accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements include Belden Inc. and all of its subsidiaries (the Company, us, we, or our). We eliminate all significant affiliate accounts and transactions in consolidation.
These Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data contained in our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
We are a signal transmission solutions provider built around two global business platforms – Enterprise Solutions and Industrial Solutions. Our comprehensive portfolio of signal transmission solutions provides industry leading secure and reliable transmission of data, sound, and video for mission critical applications. 
Our fiscal year and fiscal fourth quarter both end on December 31. Our fiscal first quarter ends on the Sunday falling closest to 91 days after December 31, which was March 31, 2019, the 90th day of our fiscal year 2019. Our fiscal second and third quarters each have 91 days. The six months ended June 30, 2019 and July 1, 2018 included 181 and 182 days, respectively. 
•Level 3 – Prices or valuations that require inputs that are both significant to the fair value measurement and unobservable. 
As of and during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 and July 1, 2018, we utilized Level 1 inputs to determine the fair value of cash equivalents, and we utilized Level 2 and Level 3 inputs to determine the fair value of net assets acquired in business combinations (see Note 3). We did not have any transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements during the six months ended June 30, 2019 and July 1, 2018.
We classify cash on hand and deposits in banks, including commercial paper, money market accounts, and other investments with an original maturity of three months or less, that we hold from time to time, as cash and cash equivalents. We periodically have cash equivalents consisting of short-term money market funds and other investments. As of June 30, 2019, we did not have any such cash equivalents on hand. The primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve our capital for the purpose of funding operations. We do not enter into investments for trading or speculative purposes. 
As of June 30, 2019, we were party to standby letters of credit, bank guaranties, and surety bonds totaling $7.4 million, $3.6 million, and $3.3 million, respectively.
In June 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-07 (“ASU 2018-07”), Improvements to Nonemployee Share-Based Payment Accounting. The amendments in ASU 2018-07 expand the scope of Topic 718, Compensation - Stock Compensation, to include share-based payment transactions for acquiring goods and services from non-employees, and provide that non-employee share-based payment awards be measured at their grant-date fair value and the probability of satisfying performance conditions be taken into account when non-employee share-based payment awards contain such conditions. The standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018. We adopted ASU 2018-07 effective January 1, 2019. The adoption had no impact on our results of operations. 
The following tables present our revenues disaggregated by geography, based on the location of the customer purchasing the product.
The following tables present our revenues disaggregated by products, including software products, and support and services.
We generate revenues primarily by selling products that provide secure and reliable transmission of data, sound, and video for mission critical applications. We also generate revenues from providing support and professional services. We sell our products to distributors, end-users, installers, and directly to original equipment manufacturers. At times, we enter into arrangements that involve the delivery of multiple performance obligations. For these arrangements, revenue is allocated to each performance obligation based on its relative selling price and recognized when or as each performance obligation is satisfied. Most of our performance obligations related to the sale of products are satisfied at a point in time when control of the product is transferred based on the shipping terms of the arrangement. Generally, we determine relative selling price using the prices charged to customers on a standalone basis.
we expect to receive changes or when the consideration becomes fixed. Adjustments to revenue for performance obligations satisfied in prior periods were not significant during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 and July 1, 2018. 
Depending on the terms of an arrangement, we may defer the recognition of a portion of the consideration received because we have to satisfy a future obligation. Consideration allocated to support services under a support and maintenance contract is typically paid in advance and recognized ratably over the term of the service. Consideration allocated to professional services is typically recognized when or as the services are performed depending on the terms of the arrangement. As of June 30, 2019, total deferred revenue was $107.4 million, and of this amount, $94.2 million is expected to be recognized within the next twelve months, and the remaining $13.2 million is long-term and is expected to be recognized over a period greater than twelve months.
Opterna International Corp.
We acquired 100% of the shares of Opterna International Corp. (Opterna) on April 15, 2019 for a preliminary purchase price, net of cash acquired, of $61.5 million. Of the $61.5 million purchase price, $45.5 million was paid on April 15, 2019 and was funded with cash on hand. The acquisition included a potential earnout, which is based upon future Opterna financial targets through April 15, 2021. The maximum earnout consideration is $25.0 million, but based upon a third party valuation specialist using certain assumptions in a discounted cash flow model, the estimated fair value of the earnout included in the purchase price was $16.0 million. Opterna is an international fiber optics solutions business based in Sterling, Virginia, which designs and manufactures a range of complementary fiber connectivity, cabinet, and enclosure products used in optical networks. The results of Opterna have been included in our Consolidated Financial Statements from April 15, 2019, and are reported within the Enterprise Solutions segment. Certain subsidiaries of Opterna include noncontrolling interests. Because Opterna has a controlling financial interest in 
The above purchase price allocation is preliminary, and is subject to revision as additional information about the fair value of individual assets and liabilities becomes available. The preliminary measurement of receivables, inventories, intangible assets, goodwill, deferred income taxes, other assets and liabilities, and noncontrolling interests are subject to change. A change in the estimated fair value of the net assets acquired or noncontrolling interests will change the amount of the purchase price allocable to goodwill.
For purposes of the above allocation, we based our preliminary estimate of the fair values for the acquired inventory, intangible assets, and noncontrolling interests on valuation studies performed by a third party valuation firm. We have estimated a preliminary fair value adjustment for inventories based on the estimated selling price of the work-in-process and finished goods acquired at the closing date less the sum of the costs to complete the work-in-process, the costs of disposal, and a reasonable profit allowance for our post acquisition selling efforts. We used various valuation methods including discounted cash flows, lost income, excess earnings, and relief from royalty to estimate the preliminary fair value of the identifiable intangible assets (Level 3 valuation). Our preliminary estimate of the fair values for the noncontrolling interests were based on the comparable EBITDA multiple valuation technique (Level 3 valuation).
The amortizable intangible assets reflected in the table above were determined by us to have finite lives. The useful life for the developed technology intangible asset was based on the estimated time that the technology provides us with a competitive advantage and thus approximates the period and pattern of consumption of the intangible asset. The useful life for the customer relationship intangible asset was based on our forecasts of estimated sales from recurring customers. The useful life of the backlog intangible asset was based on our estimate of when the ordered items would ship and control of the items transfers. The useful life for the trademarks was based on the period of time we expect to continue to go to market using the trademarks. 
Our consolidated revenues and consolidated income before taxes for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 included $8.8 million and $(0.1) million, respectively, from Opterna. The income before taxes from Opterna included $0.9 million of amortization of intangible assets and $0.6 million of cost of sales related to the adjustment of acquired inventory to fair value. Consolidated net income for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 included $0.1 million of net income attributable to noncontrolling interests of Opterna.
The following table illustrates the unaudited pro forma effect on operating results as if the Opterna acquisition had been completed as of January 1, 2018.
We acquired the FutureLink product line and related assets from Suttle, Inc. on April 5, 2019 for a preliminary purchase price of $5 million that was funded with cash on hand. The acquisition of FutureLink allows us to offer a more complete set of fiber product offerings. The results from the acquisition of FutureLink have been included in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements from April 5, 2019, and are reported within the Enterprise Solutions segment. The acquisition of FutureLink was not material to our financial position or results of operations. 
Net-Tech Technology, Inc.
We acquired 100% of the shares of Net-Tech Technology, Inc. (NT2) on April 25, 2018 for a purchase price of $8.5 million that was funded with cash on hand. NT2 is an integrator of optical passive components and network optimization products used within broadband network applications where optical backhaul is used. NT2 is located in the United States. The results of NT2 have been included in our Consolidated Financial Statements from April 25, 2018, and are reported within the Enterprise Solutions segment. The NT2 acquisition was not material to our financial position or results of operations. 
During 2019, we did not record any significant measurement-period adjustments.
For purposes of the above allocation, we based our estimate of the fair values for the acquired inventory; property, plant, and equipment; intangible assets; and deferred revenue on valuation studies performed by a third party valuation firm. We have estimated a fair value adjustment for inventories based on the estimated selling price of the work-in-process and finished goods acquired at the closing date less the sum of the costs to complete the work-in-process, the costs of disposal, and a reasonable profit 
allowance for our post acquisition selling efforts. To determine the value of the acquired property, plant, and equipment, we used various valuation methods, including both the market approach, which considers sales prices of similar assets in similar conditions (Level 2 valuation), and the cost approach, which considers the cost to replace the asset adjusted for depreciation (Level 3 valuation). We used various valuation methods including discounted cash flows, lost income, excess earnings, and relief from royalty to estimate the fair value of the identifiable intangible assets and deferred revenue (Level 3 valuation). 
The amortizable intangible assets reflected in the table above were determined by us to have finite lives. The useful life for the developed technology intangible asset was based on the estimated time that the technology provides us with a competitive advantage and thus approximates the period and pattern of consumption of the intangible asset. The useful life for the customer relationship intangible asset was based on our forecasts of estimated sales from recurring customers. The useful life of the backlog intangible asset was based on our estimate of when the ordered items would ship. The useful life for the trademarks was based on the period of time we expect to continue to go to market using the trademarks. 
Our consolidated revenues and consolidated income before taxes for the three months ended July 1, 2018 include $31.1 million and $(6.6) million, respectively, from SAM. The loss before taxes from SAM included $20.3 million of severance and other restructuring costs, $2.8 million of amortization of intangible assets, and $0.7 million of cost of sales related to the adjustment of acquired inventory to fair value. Our consolidated revenues and consolidated income before taxes for the six months ended July 1, 2018 included $51.9 million and $(9.4) million, respectively, from SAM. The loss before taxes from SAM included $29.5 million of severance and other restructuring costs, $5.0 million of amortization of intangible assets, and $1.2 million of cost of sales related to the adjustment of acquired inventory to fair value.
The following table illustrates the unaudited pro forma effect on operating results as if the SAM acquisition had been completed as of January 1, 2017.
The key measures of segment profit or loss are Segment Revenues and Segment EBITDA. Segment Revenues represent non-affiliate revenues and include revenues that would have otherwise been recorded by acquired businesses as independent entities but were not recognized in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income due to the effects of purchase accounting and the associated write-down of acquired deferred revenue to fair value. Segment EBITDA excludes certain items, including depreciation expense; amortization of intangibles; asset impairment; severance, restructuring, and acquisition integration costs; purchase accounting effects related to acquisitions, such as the adjustment of acquired inventory and deferred revenue to fair value; and other costs. We allocate corporate expenses to the segments for purposes of measuring Segment EBITDA. Corporate expenses are allocated on the basis of each segment’s relative EBITDA prior to the allocation.
Our measure of segment assets does not include cash, goodwill, intangible assets, deferred tax assets, or corporate assets. All goodwill is allocated to reporting units of our segments for purposes of impairment testing. 
For the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, diluted weighted average shares outstanding do not include outstanding equity awards of 1.2 million and 1.1 million, respectively, because to do so would have been anti-dilutive. In addition, for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, diluted weighted average shares outstanding do not include outstanding equity awards of 0.3 million and 0.3 million, respectively, because the related performance conditions have not been satisfied. Furthermore, for both 
the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, diluted weighted average shares outstanding do not include the impact of preferred shares that are convertible into 6.9 million common shares, because deducting the preferred stock dividends from net income was more dilutive.
For the three and six months ended July 1, 2018, diluted weighted average shares outstanding do not include outstanding equity awards of 0.9 million and 0.7 million, respectively, because to do so would have been anti-dilutive. In addition, for the three and six months ended July 1, 2018, diluted weighted average shares outstanding do not include outstanding equity awards of 0.3 million and 0.2 million, respectively, because the related performance conditions have not been satisfied. Furthermore, for both the three and six months ended July 1, 2018, diluted weighted average shares outstanding do not include the impact of preferred shares that are convertible into 6.9 million common shares, because deducting the preferred stock dividends from net income was more dilutive. 
For purposes of calculating basic earnings per share, unvested restricted stock units are not included in the calculation of basic weighted average shares outstanding until all necessary conditions have been satisfied and issuance of the shares underlying the restricted stock units is no longer contingent. Necessary conditions are not satisfied until the vesting date, at which time holders of our restricted stock units receive shares of our common stock.
For purposes of calculating diluted earnings per share, unvested restricted stock units are included to the extent that they are dilutive. In determining whether unvested restricted stock units are dilutive, each issuance of restricted stock units is considered separately.
Once a restricted stock unit has vested, it is included in the calculation of both basic and diluted weighted average shares outstanding.
We have operating and finance leases for properties, including manufacturing facilities, warehouses, and office space; as well as vehicles and certain equipment. We make certain judgments in determining whether a contract contains a lease in accordance with ASU 2016-02. Our leases have remaining lease terms of less than 1 year to 16 years, some of which include options to extend the lease for a period of up to 15 years and some include options to terminate the leases within 1 year. We do not assume renewals in our determination of the lease term unless the renewals are deemed to be reasonably certain as of the commencement date of the lease. Our lease agreements do not contain any material residual value guarantees or material variable lease payments.
We have entered into various short-term operating leases with an initial term of twelve months or less. These leases are not recorded on our balance sheet, and for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, the rent expense for short-term leases was not material.
We recognized depreciation expense of $12.3 million and $25.0 million in the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively. We recognized depreciation expense of $12.0 million and $23.9 million in the three and six months ended July 1, 2018, respectively. 
We recognized amortization expense related to our intangible assets of $23.4 million and $47.7 million in the three and six months ended June 30, 2019. We recognized amortization expense related to our intangible assets of $25.5 million and $50.2 million in the three and six months ended July 1, 2018, respectively. 
There were no significant severance accrual balances as of June 30, 2019 or December 31, 2018.
Our Revolving Credit Agreement provides a $400.0 million multi-currency asset-based revolving credit facility (the Revolver). The borrowing base under the Revolver includes eligible accounts receivable; inventory; and property, plant and equipment of certain of our subsidiaries in the U.S., Canada, Germany, and the Netherlands. The maturity date of the Revolver is May 16, 2022. Interest on outstanding borrowings is variable, based upon LIBOR or other similar indices in foreign jurisdictions, plus a spread that ranges from 1.25%-1.75%, depending upon our leverage position. We pay a commitment fee on our available borrowing capacity of 0.25%. In the event we borrow more than 90% of our borrowing base, we are subject to a fixed charge coverage ratio covenant. As of June 30, 2019, we had no borrowings outstanding on the Revolver, and our available borrowing capacity was $320.9 million. 
We have outstanding €350.0 million aggregate principal amount of 3.875% senior subordinated notes due 2028 (the 2028 Notes). The carrying value of the 2028 Notes as of June 30, 2019 is $398.2 million. The 2028 Notes are guaranteed on a senior subordinated basis by our current and future domestic subsidiaries. The 2028 Notes rank equal in right of payment with our senior subordinated notes due 2027, 2026, and 2025 and with any future subordinated debt, and they are subordinated to all of our senior debt and the senior debt of our subsidiary guarantors, including our Revolver. Interest is payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 of each year.
We have outstanding €450.0 million aggregate principal amount of 3.375% senior subordinated notes due 2027 (the 2027 Notes). The carrying value of the 2027 Notes as of June 30, 2019 is $511.9 million. The 2027 Notes are guaranteed on a senior subordinated basis by our current and future domestic subsidiaries. The 2027 Notes rank equal in right of payment with our senior subordinated notes due 2028, 2026, and 2025 and with any future subordinated debt, and they are subordinated to all of our senior debt and the senior debt of our subsidiary guarantors, including our Revolver. Interest is payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15 of each year. 
We have outstanding €200.0 million aggregate principal amount of 4.125% senior subordinated notes due 2026 (the 2026 Notes). The carrying value of the 2026 Notes as of June 30, 2019 is $227.5 million. The 2026 Notes are guaranteed on a senior subordinated basis by our current and future domestic subsidiaries. The 2026 Notes rank equal in right of payment with our senior subordinated notes due 2028, 2027, and 2025 and with any future subordinated debt, and they are subordinated to all of our senior debt and the senior debt of our subsidiary guarantors, including our Revolver. Interest is payable semiannually on April 15 and October 15 of each year.
We have outstanding €300.0 million aggregate principal amount of 2.875% senior subordinated notes due 2025 (the 2025 Notes). The carrying value of the 2025 Notes as of June 30, 2019 is $341.3 million. The 2025 Notes are guaranteed on a senior subordinated basis by our current and future domestic subsidiaries. The 2025 Notes rank equal in right of payment with our senior subordinated notes due 2028, 2027, and 2026 and with any future subordinated debt, and they are subordinated to all of our senior debt and the senior debt of our subsidiary guarantors, including our Revolver. Interest is payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 of each year. 
The fair value of our senior subordinated notes as of June 30, 2019 was approximately $1,549.0 million based on quoted prices of the debt instruments in inactive markets (Level 2 valuation). This amount represents the fair value of our senior subordinated notes with a carrying value of $1,478.9 million as of June 30, 2019. 
All of our euro denominated notes were issued by Belden Inc., a USD functional currency entity. As of June 30, 2019, all of our outstanding foreign denominated debt is designated as a net investment hedge on the foreign currency risk of our net investment in our euro foreign operations. The objective of the hedge is to protect the net investment in the foreign operation against adverse changes in the euro exchange rate. The transaction gain or loss is reported in the translation adjustment section of other comprehensive income. For the six months ended June 30, 2019 and July 1, 2018, the transaction gain associated with these notes that was reported in other comprehensive income was $6.9 million and $66.5 million, respectively. 
On November 29, 2018, our Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program, which allows us to purchase up to $300.0 million of our common stock through open market repurchases, negotiated transactions, or other means, in accordance with applicable securities laws and other restrictions. This program is funded with cash on hand and cash flows from operating activities. The program does not have an expiration date and may be suspended at any time at the discretion of the Company. During the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, we repurchased 0.4 million shares of our common stock under the share repurchase program for an aggregate cost of $22.8 million and an average price per share of $57.47. During the three months ended July 1, 2018, we repurchased 0.4 million shares of our common stock under a previous share repurchase program for an aggregate cost of $24.7 million and an average price per share of $63.75. During the six months ended July 1, 2018, we repurchased 1.4 million shares of our common stock under a previous share repurchase program for an aggregate cost of $100.0 million and an average price per share of $69.53.
On July 15, 2019, all outstanding 6.75% Series B Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock (the Preferred Stock) automatically converted into shares of Belden common stock at the conversion rate of 132.50 shares of common stock per share of Preferred Stock. The conversion of the Preferred Stock resulted in the issuance of approximately 6.9 million shares of Belden common stock on the conversion date. Upon conversion, the Preferred Stock were automatically extinguished and discharged, are no longer deemed outstanding for all purposes, and delisted from trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
In July 2019, we repurchased 0.5 million shares of our common stock under the share repurchase program authorized on November 29, 2018 by our Board or Directors for an aggregate cost of $27.2 million and an average price per share of $55.17.
SEC Investigation - As disclosed in our Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on December 3, 2018, we are fully cooperating with an SEC investigation related to the material weakness in internal controls over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017 disclosed in our 2017 Form 10-K. We continue to believe that the outcome of the investigation will not have a material adverse effect on the Company.
