Item 1.Financial Statements
MANTECH INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
MANTECH INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
MANTECH INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
MANTECH INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
MANTECH INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
UNAUDITED
Description of the Business
Basis of Presentation
The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
Certain information and note disclosures normally included in the annual financial statements, prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., have been condensed or omitted pursuant to those rules and regulations.
The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses.
We recommend that you read these condensed consolidated financial statements in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and related notes included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, previously filed with the SEC.
We believe that the condensed consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-Q reflect all adjustments that are necessary to fairly present the financial position, results of operations and cash flows for the interim periods presented.
The results of operations for such interim periods are not necessarily indicative of the results that can be expected for the full year.
Revenue from Contracts with Customers
On January 1, 2018, we adopted Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, using the modified retrospective method applied to those contracts that were not substantially complete as of January 1, 2018.
ASC 606 outlines a five-step model whereby revenue is recognized as performance obligations within the contract are satisfied.
ASC 606 also requires new, expanded disclosures regarding revenue recognition.
We recognized the cumulative effect of adopting ASC 606 as an increase to the 2018 opening balance of retained earnings in the amount of $0.8 million, with the impact primarily related to fixed-price contracts.
For contracts that do not meet the criteria to measure performance as a right to invoice under the series guidance, we utilize an Estimate at Completion process to measure progress toward completion.
We typically estimate progress towards completion based on cost incurred or direct labor incurred.
As part of this process, we review information including, but not limited to, any outstanding key contract matters, progress towards completion and the related program schedule, identified risks and opportunities and the related changes in estimates of revenue and costs.
The risks and opportunities include judgments about the ability and cost to achieve the contract milestones and other technical contract requirements.
We make assumptions and estimates regarding labor productivity and availability, the complexity of the work to be performed, the availability of materials, the length of time to complete the performance obligation, execution by our subcontractors, the availability and timing of funding from our customer and overhead cost rates, among other variables.
A significant change in one or more of these estimates could affect the timing in which we recognize revenue on our contracts.
For the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, the aggregate impact of adjustments in contract estimates increased our revenue by $5.9 million and $4.5 million, respectively.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, the aggregate impact of adjustments in contract estimates increased our revenue by $9.0 million and $8.8 million, respectively.
We have one reportable segment.
Our U.S. government customers typically exercise independent decision-making and contracting authority.
Offices or divisions within an agency or department of the U.S. government may directly, or through a prime contractor, use our services as a separate customer as long as the customer has independent decision-making and contracting authority within its organization.
We treat sales to U.S. government customers as sales within the U.S. regardless of where the services are performed.
The following tables disclose revenue (in thousands) by contract type, customer, prime or subcontractor and geography for the periods presented.
Receivables at September 30, 2019 are expected to be substantially collected within one year except for approximately $1.1 million, of which 100% is related to receivables from sales to the U.S. government or from contracts in which we acted as a subcontractor to other contractors selling to the U.S. government.
We do not believe that we have significant exposure to credit
risk as billed receivables and unbilled receivables are primarily due from the U.S. government.
The allowance for doubtful accounts represents our estimate for exposure due to compliance, contractual issues and bad debts related to prime contractors.
For the three months ended and nine months ended September 30, 2019, the amount of revenue that was included in the opening contract liabilities balance were $0.9 million and $23.4 million, respectively.
Leases
Our ROU asset is recognized as the lease liability, any initial indirect costs and any prepaid lease payments, less any lease incentives.
Our lease liabilities are recognized based on the present value of the future minimum lease payments over the lease term at commencement date.
Our lease payments consist of amounts relating to the use of the underlying asset during the lease term, specifically fixed payments, payment to be made in optional periods when we are reasonably certain to exercise an option to extend the lease or not to exercise an option to terminate the lease and the amounts probable of being owned by us under residual guarantees.
Our variable lease payments are excluded in measuring ROU assets and lease liabilities because they do not depend on an index or a rate or are not in substance fixed payments.
We exclude lease incentives and initial direct costs incurred from our lease payments.
Our leases typically do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at the commencement date in determining the present value of future payments.
Our operating leases are primarily made up of real estate.
Our variable lease payments do not depend on an index or a rate or are not in substance fixed payments.
Our leases have remaining lease terms of 1 day to 11 years, some of which include options to extend the leases for up to 14 years, and some of which include options to terminate the leases within 1 year.
Our transportation vehicles and equipment leases include a residual value guarantee, which is a guarantee made to the lessor that the value of the underlying asset returned to the lessor at the end of the lease will be at least a specific amount.
We sublease some of our real estate
space.
Sublease income is immaterial and is presented net with the corresponding lease expense.
We do not have any leases that have not yet commenced due to construction or design of the underlying asset.
We recognize payments related to short-term leases (less than one year) as expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term and variable lease payments in the period in which the obligation for those payments were incurred.
As such, our short-term lease expense for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 was $1.4 million and $4.2 million, respectively.
For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, we incurred variable lease costs of $0.5 million and $1.9 million, respectively.
In our condensed consolidated statement of income, we recognize lease expense within general and administrative expense or cost of goods sold depending on the use of the underlying lease.
For leases classified as financing, the interest on lease liabilities is classified within interest expense.
Acquisitions
H2M Group (H2M)—On August 8, 2019, we completed the acquisition of H2M through a membership interest purchase agreement by and among H2M Group, HHM Holding LLC, and the Members and ManTech International Corporation.
The results of H2M's operations have been included in our condensed consolidated financial statements since that date.
We funded the acquisition with cash on hand and borrowings on our revolving credit facility.
H2M is a provider of intelligence and analysis services and solutions primarily to the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA).
This acquisition strengthens our ability to help key government agencies implement new automation techniques that enable intelligence analysts to more effectively navigate large amounts of data and to distill the critical information that informs actionable intelligence necessary to make mission-critical decisions.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2019, we incurred approximately $0.3 million of acquisition costs related to the H2M transaction, which are included in general and administrative expenses in our condensed consolidated statement of income.
The preliminary purchase price of $38.8 million, which includes an estimated working capital adjustment, was preliminarily allocated to the underlying assets and liabilities based on their estimated fair value at the date of acquisition.
As we are still in the process of reviewing the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed and in finalizing the closing working capital adjustment, the purchase price allocation for H2M is not complete as of September 30, 2019.
Recognition of goodwill is largely attributed to the value paid for H2M's capabilities to support government agencies in the implementation of high-quality geospatial and professional services.
The goodwill recorded for this transaction will be deductible for tax purposes over 15 years.
In preliminarily allocating the purchase price, we considered, among other factors, analysis of historical performance and estimates of future performance of H2M's contracts.
The components of other intangible assets associated with the acquisition were customer relationships and backlog valued at $9.6 million and $2.3 million, respectively.
Customer contracts and related relationships represent the underlying relationships and agreements with H2M's existing customers.
Customer relationships are amortized using the pattern of benefits method over their estimated useful lives of approximately 20 years.
Backlog is amortized using the pattern of benefits method over its estimated useful life of 2 years.
The weighted-average amortization period for the intangible assets is 17 years.
Kforce Government Solutions (KGS)—On April 1, 2019, we completed the acquisition of KGS.
KGS was a wholly owned subsidiary of the publicly traded commercial technology and staffing company KForce, Inc.
The results of KGS's operations have been included in our condensed consolidated financial statements since that date.
The acquisition was completed through an equity purchase agreement dated February 28, 2019, by and among Kforce Government Solutions, Inc and other beneficiaries and ManTech International Corporation.
We funded the acquisition with cash on hand and borrowings on our revolving credit facility.
KGS provides services, IT solutions, transformation and management consulting and data analytics - most notably in the healthcare IT market.
This acquisition will expand our presence with important customers such as the Department of Veteran Affairs (VA).
For the nine months ended September 30, 2019, we incurred approximately $1.0 million of acquisition costs related to the KGS transaction, which are included in general and administrative expenses in our condensed consolidated statement of income.
The purchase price of $114.6 million, which includes the finalized working capital adjustment, was preliminarily allocated to the underlying assets and liabilities based on their estimated fair value at the date of acquisition.
As we are still in the process of reviewing the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, the purchase price allocation for KGS is not complete as of September 30, 2019.
Recognition of goodwill is largely attributed to the value paid for KGS's capabilities to support customers in IT solutions, transformation and management consulting and data analytics.
A majority of the goodwill recorded will not be deductible for tax purposes.
In preliminarily allocating the purchase price, we considered, among other factors, analysis of historical financial performance and estimates of future performance of KGS's contracts.
The components of other intangible assets associated with the acquisition were customer relationships and backlog valued at $33.1 million and $1.6 million, respectively.
Customer contracts and related relationships represent the underlying relationships and agreements with KGS's existing customers.
Customer relationships are amortized using the pattern of benefits method over their estimated useful lives of approximately 20 years.
Backlog is amortized straight-line over its estimated useful life of 1 year.
The weighted-average amortization period for the intangible assets is 19 years.
Earnings Per Share
Under ASC 260, Earnings per Share, the two-class method is an earnings allocation formula that determines earnings per share for each class of common stock according to dividends declared (or accumulated) and participation rights in undistributed earnings.
Under that method, basic and diluted earnings per share data are presented for each class of common stock.
In applying the two-class method, we determined that undistributed earnings should be allocated equally on a per share basis between Class A and Class B common stock.
Under our Certificate of Incorporation, the holders of the common stock are entitled to participate ratably, on a share-for-share basis as if all shares of common stock were of a single class, in such dividends as may be declared by the Board of Directors.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, we declared and paid quarterly dividends in the amount of $0.27 per share and $0.25 per share, respectively, on both classes of common stock.
Basic earnings per share has been computed by dividing net income available to common stockholders by the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during each period.
Shares issued during the period and shares reacquired during the period are weighted for the portion of the period in which the shares were outstanding.
Diluted earnings per share have been computed in a manner consistent with that of basic earnings per share while giving effect to all potentially dilutive common shares that were outstanding during each period.
For the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, options to purchase 7,641 shares and 242,789 shares, respectively, were outstanding but not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the options' effect would have been anti-dilutive.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, options to purchase 331,994 shares and 268,013 shares, respectively, were outstanding but not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the options' effect would have been anti-dilutive.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, there were 255,376 shares and 387,926 shares, respectively, issued from the exercise of stock options.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 there were 76,346 shares and 86,233 shares, respectively, issued from the vesting of restricted stock units.
Property and Equipment
Depreciation and amortization expense related to property and equipment for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 was $6.9 million and $6.4 million, respectively.
Depreciation and amortization expense related to property and equipment for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 was $19.4 million and $19.1 million, respectively.
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
Debt
Revolving Credit Facility—We maintain a credit facility with a syndicate of lenders led by Bank of America, N.A., as sole administrative agent.
The credit agreement provides for a $500 million revolving credit facility, with a $75 million letter of credit sublimit and a $30 million swing line loan sublimit.
The credit agreement also includes an accordion feature that permits us to arrange with the lenders for the provision of additional commitments.
The maturity date is August 17, 2022.
The terms of the credit agreement permit prepayment and termination of the loan commitments at any time, subject to certain conditions.
The credit agreement requires us to comply with specified financial covenants, including the maintenance of certain leverage ratios and a consolidated coverage ratio.
The credit agreement also contains various covenants, including affirmative covenants with respect to certain reporting requirements and maintaining certain business activities, and negative covenants that, among other things, may limit or impose restrictions on our ability to incur liens, incur additional indebtedness, make investments, make acquisitions and undertake certain other actions.
As of and during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, we were in compliance with the financial covenants under the credit agreement.
There was $25.0 million and $7.5 million outstanding on our revolving credit facility at September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.
The maximum available borrowing under the revolving credit facility at September 30, 2019 was $467.3 million.
As of September 30, 2019, we were contingently liable under letters of credit totaling $7.7 million, which reduces our availability to borrow under our revolving credit facility.
Commitments and Contingencies
Contracts with the U.S. government, including subcontracts, are subject to extensive legal and regulatory requirements and, from time-to-time, agencies of the U.S. government, in the ordinary course of business, investigate whether our operations are conducted in accordance with these requirements and the terms of the relevant contracts.
U.S. government investigations of us, whether related to our U.S. government contracts or conducted for other reasons, could result in administrative, civil or criminal liabilities, including repayments, fines or penalties being imposed upon us, or could lead to suspension or debarment from future U.S. government contracting activities.
Management believes it has adequately reserved for any losses that may be experienced from any investigation of which it is aware.
The Defense Contract Audit Agency has substantially completed our incurred cost audits through 2016 with no material adjustments.
The remaining audits for 2017 through 2018 are not expected to have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flow and management believes it has adequately reserved for any losses.
In the normal course of business, we are involved in certain governmental and legal proceedings, claims and disputes and have litigation pending under several suits.
Current legal matters are individually immaterial and we believe that the ultimate resolution of these items will not have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
Management believes it has adequately reserved for any losses that may be experienced from legal proceedings, claims and disputes and pending litigations of which it is aware.
An officer of our Company was party to an arbitration proceeding with a former employer relating to a breach of a contract claim.
Pursuant to indemnification arrangements we have with this officer, we were exposed to a loss related to this claim.
In the period ending September 30, 2019, we settled the claim.
The settlement amount was not material to our condensed consolidated financial statements.
We have $7.7 million outstanding on our letter of credit, of which $7.6 million is related to an outstanding performance bond in connection with a contract between ManTech MENA, LLC and Jadwalean International Operations and Management Company to fulfill technical support requirements for the Royal Saudi Air Force.
Stock-Based Compensation
Our 2016 Management Incentive Plan (the Plan) was designed to attract, retain and motivate key employees.
The types of awards available under the Plan include, among others, stock options, restricted stock and restricted stock units (RSUs).
Equity awards granted under the Plan are settled in shares of Class A common stock.
At the beginning of each year, the Plan provides that the number of shares available for issuance automatically increases by an amount equal to 1.5% of the total number of shares of Class A and Class B common stock outstanding on December 31st of the previous year.
On January 2, 2019, there were 596,422 additional shares made available for issuance under the Plan.
Through September 30, 2019, the Board of Directors has authorized the issuance of up to 15,148,321 shares under this Plan.
Through September 30, 2019, the remaining aggregate number of shares of our common stock available for future grants under the Plan was 6,727,002.
The Plan expires in March 2026.
The Plan is administered by the compensation committee of our Board of Directors, along with its delegates.
Subject to the express provisions of the Plan, the committee has the Board of Directors’ authority to administer and interpret the Plan, including the discretion to determine the exercise price, vesting schedule, contractual life and the number of shares to be issued.
Stock Compensation Expense—For the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, we recorded $2.0 million and $1.3 million of stock-based compensation expense.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, we recorded $5.2 million and $3.6 million of stock-based compensation expense.
No compensation expense of employees with stock awards,
including stock-based compensation expense, was capitalized during the periods.
For the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, we recorded $(0.9) million and $(1.2) million, respectively, to income tax expense (benefit) related to the exercise of stock options, vested cancellations and the vesting of restricted stock and restricted stock units.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, we recorded $(1.6) million and $(2.9) million, respectively, to income tax expense (benefit) related to the exercise of stock options, vested cancellations and the vesting of restricted stock and restricted stock units.
Stock Options—Under the Plan, we have issued stock options.
A stock option gives the holder the right, but not the obligation to purchase a certain number of shares at a predetermined price for a specific period of time.
We typically issue options that vest over three years in equal installments beginning on the first anniversary of the date of grant.
Under the terms of the Plan, the contractual life of the option grants may not exceed eight years.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, we issued options that expire five years from the date of grant.
Fair Value Determination—We have used the Black-Scholes-Merton option pricing model to determine the fair value of our awards on the date of grant.
We will reconsider the use of the Black-Scholes-Merton model if additional information becomes available in the future that indicates another model would be more appropriate or if grants issued in future periods have characteristics that cannot be reasonably estimated under this model.
•Volatility—The expected volatility of the options granted was estimated based upon historical volatility of our share price through weekly observations of our trading history.
•Risk-free interest rate—The yield on zero-coupon U.S. Treasury strips was used to extrapolate a forward-yield curve.
This “term structure” of future interest rates was then input into a numeric model to provide the equivalent risk-free rate to be used in the Black-Scholes-Merton model based on the expected term of the underlying grants.
Stock Option Activity—The weighted-average fair value of options granted during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, as determined under the Black-Scholes-Merton valuation model, was $10.10 and $9.98, respectively.
Option grants that vested during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 had a combined fair value of $1.2 million and $0.7 million, respectively.
Unrecognized compensation expense related to non-vested awards was $5.1 million as of September 30, 2019, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2 years.
Restricted Stock—Under the Plan, we have issued restricted stock.
A restricted stock award is an issuance of shares that cannot be sold or transferred by the recipient until the vesting period lapses.
Restricted stock issued to members of our Board of Directors vest on the one year anniversary of the grant date.
The related compensation expense is recognized over the service period and is based on the grant date fair value of the stock.
The grant date fair value of the restricted stock is equal to the closing market price of our common stock on the date of grant.
Restricted Stock Activity— The following table summarizes the restricted stock activity during the year ended December 31, 2018 and the nine months ended September 30, 2019.
RSUs—Under the Plan, we have issued restricted stock units (RSUs).
RSUs are not actual shares, but rather a right to receive shares in the future.
The shares are not issued and the employee cannot sell or transfer shares prior to vesting and have no voting rights until the RSUs vest.
Employees who are granted RSUs do not receive dividend payments during the vesting period.
Our employees have been granted performance-based RSUs and time-based RSUs.
Performance-based RSUs result in the delivery of shares only if (a) performance criteria is met and (b) the employee remains employed, in good standing, through the date of the performance period.
Time-based RSUs vest in one-third increments on the first, second and third anniversaries of the date of grant.
The grant date fair value of the RSUs is equal to the closing market price of our common stock on the grant date less the present value of dividends expected to be awarded during the service period.
We recognize the grant date fair value of RSUs of shares we expect to issue as compensation expense ratably over the requisite service period.
Item 1.Legal Proceedings
Although we cannot predict the outcome of these and other legal proceedings, investigations, claims and disputes, based on the information now available to us, we do not believe the ultimate resolution of these matters, either individually or in the aggregate, will have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition or operating results.
Item 1A.Risk Factors
There have been no material changes from the risk factors described in the “Risk Factors” section of our Annual Report on the Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
Item 6.Exhibits
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
