Item 2.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
All statements and assumptions contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q that do not relate to historical facts constitute "forward-looking statements."
These statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts.
Forward-looking statements often include the use of words such as "may," "will," "expect," "intend," "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "plan" and words and terms of similar substance in connection with discussions of future events, situations or financial performance.
While these statements represent our current expectations, no assurance can be given that the results or events described in such statements will be achieved.
Forward-looking statements may include, among other things, statements with respect to our financial condition, results of operations, prospects, business strategies, competitive position, growth opportunities, and plans and objectives of management.
Such statements are subject to numerous assumptions, risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside of our control, and include, without limitations, the risks and uncertainties discussed in the section titled "Risk Factors" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017.
•Failure to maintain our relationship with the U.S. government, or the failure to compete effectively for new contract awards or to retain existing U.S. government contracts;
•Inability to recruit and retain a sufficient number of employees with specialized skill sets or necessary security clearances who are in great demand and limited supply;
•Issues relating to competing effectively for awards procured through the competitive bidding process, including the adverse impact of delays caused by competitors' protests of contract awards received by us;
•Adverse changes in U.S. government spending for programs we support, whether due to changing mission priorities, socio-economic policies that reduce contracts that we may bid on, cost reduction and efficiency initiatives by our customers, or federal budget constraints generally;
•Failure to obtain option awards, task orders or funding under contracts;
•Failure to realize the full amount of our backlog, or adverse changes in the timing of receipt of revenue under contracts included in backlog;
•Renegotiation, modification or termination of our contracts, or failure to perform in conformity with contract terms or our expectations;
•Disruption of our business or damage to our reputation resulting from security breaches in customer systems, internal systems or service failures (including as a result of cyber or other security threats), or employee or subcontractor misconduct;
•Failure to successfully integrate acquired companies or businesses into our operations or to realize any accretive or synergistic effects from such acquisitions;
•Increased exposure to risks associated with conducting business internationally;
•Non-compliance with, or adverse changes in, complex U.S. government laws, procurement regulations or processes; and
•Adverse results of U.S. government audits or other investigations of our government contracts.
We urge you not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report.
We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement made herein following the date of this Quarterly Report, whether as a result of new information, subsequent events or circumstances, changes in expectations or otherwise.
Overview
On March 23, 2018, the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2018 was signed into law.
The Act funds the government through September 30, 2018 and marks the third consecutive year of budget growth.
The U.S. Government fiscal year (GFY) 2018 appropriations and U.S. GFY 2019 budget request include near term expansions of budgets for the Department of Defense aligned with the Administration's stated priorities in dealing with significant global threats, readiness and force structure needs within the military, diplomatic, homeland and border security, and cyber aggressions by both state and non-state actors.
However, U.S. GFY 2019 and future years funding appropriations continue to be debated in normal course by Congress with the consideration of policy priorities, national budget deficits, debt ceilings and the Budget Control Act (BCA).
We recommend that you read this discussion and analysis in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Three Months Ended June 30, 2018 Compared to the Three Months Ended June 30, 2017
The following table sets forth certain items from our condensed consolidated statements of income and the relative percentage that certain items of expenses and earnings bear to revenue, as well as the period-to-period change from June 30, 2017 to June 30, 2018.
Revenue
The primary driver of our increase in revenues relates to revenues from new contract awards, growth on certain existing contracts and acquisitions.
These increases were offset by contracts and tasks that ended and reduced scope of work on some contracts.
Cost of services
The increase in cost of services was primarily due to increases in revenue.
As a percentage of revenue, direct labor costs were 48% for the three months ended June 30, 2018, compared to 49% for the same period in 2017.
As a percentage of revenues, other direct costs, which include subcontractors and third party equipment and materials used in the performance of our contracts, was 37% for the three months ended June 30, 2018, compared to 36% fo the same period in 2017.
General and administrative expenses
The increase in general and administrative expenses was due to an increase in expenditures to support new contract awards and amortization expense from acquired intangibles.
Interest expense
The increase in interest expense was due to increased borrowings under our credit facility to fund the acquisition of InfoZen in the fourth quarter of 2017 and the purchase of equipment to support a managed IT services contract.
For additional information on the acquisition of InfoZen, see Note 4.
Acquisitions to our condensed consolidated financial statements in Item I.
Provision for income taxes
Our effective tax rate is affected by recurring items, such as the relative amount of income we earn in various taxing jurisdictions and their tax rates.
It is also affected by discrete items that may occur in any given year, but are not consistent from year-to-year.
Our effective income tax rates were 28% and 37% for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The significant reduction in our effective tax rate for 2018 is due to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, enacted on December 22, 2017, which reduced the U.S. corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%.
Six Months Ended June 30, 2018 Compared to the Six Months Ended June 30, 2017
The following table sets forth certain items from our condensed consolidated statements of income and the relative percentage that certain items of expenses and earnings bear to revenue, as well as the period-to-period change from June 30, 2017 to June 30, 2018.
Revenue
The primary driver of our increase in revenue relates to revenues from new contract awards, growth on existing contracts, including higher levels of material procurements, and acquisitions.
These increases were offset by contracts and tasks that ended and reduced scope of work on some contracts.
Cost of services
The increase in cost of services was primarily due to increases in revenue.
As a percentage of revenue, direct labor costs were 48% for the six months ended June 30, 2018, compared to 49% for the same period in 2017.
As a percentage of revenue, other direct costs, which include subcontractors as well as equipment and materials used in the performance of our contracts, was 37% for the six months ended June 30, 2018 compared to 36% for the same period in 2017.
We expect cost of services as a percentage of revenues to slightly increase for the remainder of 2018 due to typically higher levels of materials in the second half of the year.
General and administrative expenses
The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to an increase in bid and proposal spending, amortization of acquired intangibles and expenditures to support infrastructure.
Interest expense
The increase in interest expense was due to increased borrowings under our credit facility to fund the acquisition of InfoZen in the fourth quarter of 2017 and the purchase of equipment to support a managed IT services contract.
For additional information on the acquisition of InfoZen, see Note 4.
Acquisitions to our condensed consolidated financial statements in Item I.
Provision for income taxes
Our effective tax rate is affected by recurring items, such as the relative amount of income we earn in various taxing jurisdictions and their tax rates.
It is also affected by discrete items that may occur in any given year, but are not consistent from year-to-year.
Our effective income tax rates were 25% and 37% for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The significant reduction in our effective tax rate for 2018 is due to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, enacted on December 22, 2017, which reduced the U.S. corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%.
We expect our effective income tax rate to be between 25% and 27% for the balance of the year.
Backlog
We define funded backlog to be the portion of backlog for which funding currently is appropriated and allocated to the contract by the purchasing agency or otherwise authorized for payment by the customer upon completion of a specific portion of work.
Our funded backlog does not include the full value of our contracts because Congress often appropriates funds for a particular program or contract on a yearly or quarterly basis, even though the contract may call for performance over a much longer period of time.
A variety of circumstances or events may cause changes in the amount of our backlog and funded backlog, including the execution of new contracts, the extension of existing contracts, the non-renewal or completion of current contracts, the early termination of contracts, and adjustment to estimates for previously included contracts.
Changes in the amount of our funded backlog also are affected by the funding cycles of the government.
At June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, our backlog was $7.8 billion and $7.1 billion, respectively.
Our funded backlog was $1.3 billion and $1.4 billion as of June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Our primary liquidity needs relate to managing working capital, financing acquisitions, making cash dividend payments, purchasing property and equipment and investing in capital software.
Our primary sources of liquidity are cash from operating activities and borrowings under our revolving credit facility.
On June 30, 2018, our cash and cash equivalents balance was $7.2 million.
There were $29.5 million outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility at June 30, 2018.
The maximum available borrowings under our revolving credit facility at June 30, 2018 were $455.2 million.
As of June 30, 2018, we were contingently liable under letters of credit totaling $15.3 million, which reduces our availability to borrow under our revolving credit facility.
Cash Flows From (Used In) Operating Activities
Our operating cash flow is primarily affected by our ability to invoice and collect from our customers in a timely manner, our management of vendor payments and the overall profitability of our contracts.
We bill most of our customers monthly after services are rendered.
Our accounts receivable days sales outstanding were 68 and 69 for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
For the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, our net cash from operating activities was $35.0 million and $63.3 million, respectively.
The decrease in net cash flows from operating activities during the six months ended June 30, 2018 when compared to the same period in 2017 was primarily due to the timing of receivables.
Cash Flows From (Used In) Investing Activities
For the six months ended June 30, 2018 our net cash used in investing activities was $20.1 million, which was primarily used for the purchase of equipment to support a managed IT service contract, infrastructure investments and capitalized software for internal use.
For the six months ended June 30, 2017 our net cash used in investing activities was $6.9 million, which was used for capital expenditures.
For the remainder of the year, we expect increased levels of capital expenditures, as compared to prior years, for the purchase of equipment to support managed IT service contracts.
Cash Flows From (Used in) Financing Activities
For the six months ended June 30, 2018, our net cash used in financing activities was $17.2 million, which was primarily due to dividend payments.
For the six months ended June 30, 2017, our net cash used in financing activities were $13.1 million, which were primarily due to dividends paid partially offset by the proceeds from the exercise of stock options.
Revolving Credit Facility
Capital Resources
We believe the capital resources available to us from cash on hand, our remaining capacity under our revolving credit facility, and cash from our operations are adequate to fund our anticipated cash requirements for at least the next year.
We anticipate financing our internal and external growth through cash from operating activities, borrowings under our revolving credit facility or other debt and issuance of equity.
Cash Management
To the extent possible, we invest our available cash in short-term, investment grade securities in accordance with our investment policy.
Under our investment policy, we manage our investments in accordance with the priorities of maintaining the safety of our principal, maintaining the liquidity of our investments, maximizing the yield on our investments and investing our cash to the fullest extent possible.
Our investment policy provides that no investment security can have a final maturity that exceeds six months and that the weighted average maturity of the portfolio cannot exceed 60 days.
Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, amounts due from banks and short-term investments with maturity dates of three months or less at the date of purchase.
Dividend
During the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, we declared and paid quarterly dividends in the amount of $0.25 per share and $0.21 per share, respectively, on both classes of our common stock.
While we expect to continue the cash dividend program, any future dividends declared will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend, among other factors, upon our results of operations, financial condition and cash requirements, as well as such other factors that our Board of Directors deems relevant.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
In the ordinary course of business, we use letters of credit issued to satisfy certain contractual terms with our customers.
As of June 30, 2018, $15.3 million in letters of credit were issued but undrawn.
We have an outstanding performance bond in connection with a contract between ManTech MENA, LLC and Jadwalean International Operations and Management Company to fulfill technical support requirements for the Royal Saudi Air Force.
This performance bond is guaranteed by a letter of credit in the amount of $15.2 million.
We have off-balance sheet arrangements related to operating leases.
For a description of our operating leases, see our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, previously filed with the SEC.
Critical Accounting Estimates and Policies
Critical accounting policies are defined as those that are reflective of significant judgments and uncertainties, and potentially result in materially different results under different assumptions and conditions.
Application of these policies is particularly important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations.
The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses.
Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.
Our significant accounting policies for 2017 are described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, previously filed with the SEC.
There have been no material changes to our critical accounting estimates and policies from those discussed in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K, other than revenue recognition and cost estimation as part of our implementation of ASC 606, which is described below.
Revenue Recognition and Cost Estimation
We account for a contract when both we and the customer approve and commit; our rights and those of the customer are identified, payment terms are identified; the contract has commercial substance; and collectability of consideration is probable.
At contract inception, we identify the distinct goods or services promised in the contract, referred to as performance obligations.
Then we determine the transaction price for the contract; the consideration to which we can can expect in exchange for the promised goods or services in the contract.
The transaction price can be a fixed or variable amount.
It is common for our contracts to contain award fees, incentive fees or other provisions that can either increase or decrease the transaction price.
These variable amounts generally are awarded upon achievement of certain performance metrics, program milestones or cost targets and can be based upon customer discretion.
We estimate variable consideration at the most likely amount to which we expect to be entitled.
We
include estimated amounts in the transaction price to the extent it is probable that a significant reversal of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is resolved.
Our estimates of variable consideration and determination of whether to include estimated amounts in the transaction price are based largely on an assessment of our anticipated performance and historical, current and forecasted information that is reasonably available to us.
The transaction price is allocated to each distinct performance obligation using our best estimate of the standalone selling price for each distinct good or service promised in the contract.
The primary method used to estimate standalone selling price is the expected cost plus a margin approach, under which we forecast our expected costs of satisfying a performance obligation and then add an appropriate margin for that distinct good or service promised.
Revenue is recognized when, or as, the performance obligation is satisfied.
We recognize revenue over time when there is a continuous transfer of control to our customer.
For our U.S. government contracts, this continuous transfer of control to the customer is supported by clauses in the contract that allow the U.S. government to unilaterally terminate the contract for convenience, pay us for costs incurred plus a reasonable profit and take control of any work in process.
When control is transferred over time, revenue is recognized based on the extent of progress towards completion of the performance obligation.
Based on the nature of the products and services provided in the contract, we use our judgment to determine if an input measure or output measure best depicts the transfer of control over time.
For services contracts, we typically satisfy our performance obligations as services are rendered and use a contract cost-based input method to measure progress.
Contract costs include labor, material and allocable indirect expenses.
Revenue is recognized proportionally as contract costs are incurred plus estimated fees.
For time-and-material contracts, we bill the customer per labor hour and per material, and revenue is recognized in the amount invoiced since the amount corresponds directly to the value of our performance to date.
For stand-ready service contracts, a time-elapsed output method is used to measure progress, and revenue is recognized straight-line over the term of the contract.
If a contract does not meet the criteria for recognizing revenue over time, we recognize revenue at a point in time.
Revenue is recognized at the point in time when control of the good or service is transferred to our customer.
We consider control to transfer when we have a present right to payment and our customer has legal title.
Determining a measure of progress and when control transfers requires us to make judgments that affect the timing of when revenue is recognized.
Essentially all of our contracts satisfy their performance obligations over time.
Contracts are often modified to account for changes in contract specifications and requirements.
Contract modifications impact performance obligation when the modification either creates new or changes the existing enforceable rights and obligations.
The effect of a contract modification on the transaction price and our measure of progress for the performance obligation to which it relates is recognized as an adjustment to revenue under the cumulative catch-up method.
Furthermore, a significant change in one or more estimates could affect the profitability of our contracts.
We recognize adjustments in estimated profit on contracts in the period identified.
If at any time the estimate of contract profitability indicates an anticipated loss on the contract, we recognize the loss in the quarter it is identified.
The impact of adjustments in contract estimates can be reflected in either revenue or operating expenses on the condensed consolidated statement of income.
Recently Adopted Accounting Standards Updates
ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606) supersedes existing revenue recognition guidance, including ASC 605-35, Revenue Recognition - Construction-Type and Production-Type Contracts.
ASU 2014-09 outlines a single set of comprehensive principles for recognizing revenue under GAAP.
Among other things, it requires companies to identify contractual performance obligations and determine whether revenue should be recognized at a point in time or over time.
It also requires new, expanded disclosures regarding revenue recognition.
We elected to adopt using the modified retrospective method that applied to those contracts that were not substantially completed as of January 1, 2018.
We recognized the cumulative effect of adopting ASC 606 as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the amount of $0.8 million, with the impact primarily related to fixed-price contracts.
Results for reporting periods beginning after January 1, 2018 are presented under ASC 606, while prior period amounts were not adjusted and reported in accordance with ASC 605, Revenue Recognition.
Revenue for the six months ended June 30, 2018 increased $0.9 million as a result of applying ASC 606.
required to apply modification accounting under the amendments in ASU 2017-09.
The adoption of this ASU did not have an effect on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
Recently Issued But Not Yet Adopted ASUs
TCJA, the underlying guidance that requires that the effect of a change in tax laws or rates be included in income from continuing operations is not affected.
Additionally it requires financial statement preparers to disclose (1) a description of their accounting policy for releasing income tax effects from accumulated other comprehensive income, (2) whether they elect to reclassify the stranded income tax effects from the TCJA, and (3) information about other income tax effects related to the application of the TCJA that are reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income to retained earnings, if any.
The amendments are effective for annual periods, and for interim periods within those annual periods, beginning after December 15, 2018.
Early adoption is permitted, including adoption in any interim period, for reporting periods for which financial statements have not yet been issued.
We do not expect the adoption of this ASU to have a material effect on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
Other ASUs effective after June 30, 2018 are not expected to have a material effect on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
