item1.txt
Except for the discussion on revenue recognition below, no material changes have been made to the Company’s significant accounting policies disclosed in Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018.
The Company changed its accounting policy for revenue recognition for customer incentives that provide free products and tiered pricing.
We have determined that the effect of applying the new revenue standard during the three and nine months ended June 30, 2019 was immaterial to our financial statements compared to revenue guidance in effect before the adoption of the new revenue standard.
As a result, for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2019, we are not disclosing the quantitative amount by which each financial statement line item is affected by the application of the new revenue standard.
For the Company’s contracts that have an original duration of one year or less as of the adoption date, the Company uses the practical expedient applicable to such contracts and does not consider the time value of money.
Further, because of the short duration of these contracts, the Company has not disclosed the transaction price for the future performance obligations as of the end of each reporting period for contracts having an expected duration of one year or less.
See Note 3 of this Report on Form 10-Q for disaggregated revenue, the reconciliation of contract balances and transaction price allocation to remaining performance obligations for contracts expected to remain effective beyond one year.
At contract inception, the Company assesses the goods and services promised in its contracts with customers and identifies a performance obligation for each material promise to the customer.
A majority of the Company’s contracts have a single performance obligation which represents, in most cases, the products, equipment or services being sold to the customer.
Some contracts include multiple performance obligations, including prospective tiered price discounts or delivery of free product that we have concluded represents a material right.
Contracts vary in length, and payment terms vary by the type and location of the Company’s customers and the products or services offered.
For these contracts, the transaction price is determined upon establishment of the contract that contains the final terms of the sale, including the description, quantity, and price of goods or services purchased.
In such cases, we record deferred revenue until the performance obligation is satisfied, which represents a contract liability, and is included in the contract liabilities discussed in Note 3 of this Report on Form 10-Q.
The Company recognizes revenue related to product sales at a point in time following the transfer of control of such products to the customer, which generally occurs upon shipment, or delivery depending on the terms of the underlying contracts.
For sales contracts that contain multiple performance obligations, the Company allocates the transaction price to each performance obligation identified in the contract based on relative standalone selling prices or estimates of such prices.
Most contracts where we have determined there to be multiple performance obligations relate to where we have identified the existence of a material right such that we provide prospective tiered pricing discounts or free product.
For certain contracts within the Performance Materials segment, commissions are paid to sales agents based upon a percentage of end-customer invoice value.
For shipping and handling activities performed after a customer obtains control of the goods, the Company has elected to account for these costs as activities to fulfill the promise to transfer the goods and included in cost of sales.
The guidance also requires qualitative and specific quantitative disclosures to supplement the amounts recorded in the financial statements, to afford better understanding of an entity's leasing activities, including any significant judgments and estimates.
The Company currently plans to elect the optional package of practical expedients to not reassess prior conclusions related to contracts containing leases, lease classification and initial direct costs and therefore, does not expect the adoption of ASU 2016-02 to have a significant impact on the Consolidated Statements of Income.
Pursuant to the adoption, net service costs are recorded as fringe benefit expense under cost of sales and operating expenses, and all other costs are recorded in the Other income (expense), net in our Consolidated Statements of Income.
The provisions of ASU 2017-09 provide specific guidance about which changes to the term or conditions of a share-based payment require an entity to apply modification accounting.
The provisions of this standard amend the hedge accounting model in ASC 815 to expand an entity's ability to hedge nonfinancial and financial risk components, reduce complexity in fair value hedges of interest rate risk, eliminate the requirement to separately measure and report hedge ineffectiveness, and generally require the entire change in the fair value of a hedging instrument to be presented in the same income statement line as the hedged item.
The amount of revenue recognized during the three and nine months ended June 30, 2019 that was included in the opening current contract liability balances in our Performance Materials segment was $697 and $4,857, respectively.
The amount of revenue recognized during the three and nine months ended June 30, 2019 that was included in our opening contract liability balances in our Electronic Materials segment was not material.
The table below discloses (1) the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to performance obligations that are unsatisfied (or partially unsatisfied) as of the end of the reporting period for contracts with an original duration of greater than one year and (2) when the Company expects to recognize this revenue.
Customer relationships represent the estimated fair value of the underlying relationships and agreements with KMG’s customers and are being amortized on an accelerated basis in order for the expense to most accurately match the periods of highest cash flows attributable to the identified relationships.
KMG’s results of operations have been included in our unaudited Consolidated Statements of Income and Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income from the Acquisition Date.
KMG’s net income since the Acquisition Date was $4,782, which includes $21,889 of acquisition-related costs and a $14,869 charge for fair value write-up of inventory sold.
Further, additional amortization and depreciation expense associated with recording KMG’s net assets at fair value decreased KMG’s net income post-Acquisition.
The historical financial information has been adjusted by applying the Company’s accounting policies and giving effect to the pro forma adjustments, which consist of (i) amortization expense associated with identified intangible assets; (ii) depreciation of fixed asset step-up (for pre-acquisition periods only); (iii) accretion of inventory step-up value; (iv) the elimination of interest expense on pre-acquisition KMG debt and replacement of interest expense related to the acquisition-related financing; (v) transaction-related costs; (vi) accelerated share-based compensation expense (pre-acquisition periods only); (vii) retention and severance expense incurred as a direct result of the Acquisition; and (viii) an adjustment to tax-effect the aforementioned unaudited pro forma adjustments using an estimated weighted-average effective income tax rate of each entity and the jurisdictions to which the above adjustments relate.
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received from the sale of an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date.
The following table presents financial instruments, other than long-term debt, that we measured at fair value on a recurring basis at June 30, 2019 and September 30, 2019.
Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested for impairment annually in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year or more frequently if indicators of potential impairment exist, using a fair-value-based approach.
In addition, the Company is required to prepay outstanding loans under the Term Loan Facility, subject to certain exceptions, with up to 50% of the Company’s annual excess cash flow, as defined under the Credit Agreement, and 100% of the net cash proceeds of certain recovery events and non-ordinary course asset sales.
The Revolving Credit Facility requires that the Company maintain a maximum first lien secured net leverage ratio, as defined in the Credit Agreement, of 4.00 to 1.00 as of the last day of each fiscal quarter if any revolving loans are outstanding, commencing with the first full fiscal quarter after the Acquisition Date.
In the second quarter of fiscal 2019, we entered into a floating-to-fixed interest rate swap agreement to hedge the variability in our LIBOR-based interest payments on approximately 70% of our Term Loan Facility balance.
As of June 30, 2019, during the next 12 months, we expect approximately $4,274 to be reclassed from Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into Interest expense related to our interest rate swap based on projected rates of the LIBOR forward curve as of June 30, 2019.
In the U.S. in particular, producers and distributors of penta, which is a product manufactured and sold by KMG-Bernuth as part of the wood treatment business, are subject to registration and notification requirements under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act (“FIFRA”) and comparable state law in order to sell this product in the U.S. Compliance with these requirements may have a significant effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
We adopted ASU 2017-7 during the first quarter of the fiscal year and pursuant to the adoption, net service costs are recorded as fringe benefit expense under Cost of sales and Operating expenses, and all other costs are recorded in the Other income (expense), net in our Consolidated Statements of Income.
For more information regarding these plans, refer to Note 17 of “Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements” included in Item 8 of Part II of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018.
The before tax amount reclassified from AOCI to net income during the three and nine months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, related to cash flow hedges, were recorded as Interest expense on our Consolidated Statement of Income.
We record share-based compensation expense for all share-based awards, including stock option grants, and restricted stock, restricted stock unit and performance share unit ("PSU") awards, and employee stock purchase plan purchases.
This model requires the input of highly subjective assumptions, including the price volatility of the underlying stock, the expected term of our stock options, expected dividend yield and the risk-free interest rate.
As of December 2017, the provisions of stock option grants and restricted stock unit awards stated that, except in certain circumstances including termination for cause, once an employee meets the retirement eligibility requirements, any remaining unvested share-based awards will continue to vest regardless of termination of service.
The share-based compensation expense related to the Replacement Awards, including accelerated vesting, was $3,253 in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 and not material in the second and third quarters of fiscal 2019.
For additional information regarding the estimation of fair value, refer to Note 12 of "Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements" included in Item 8 of Part II of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018.
Revenue from external customers and segment adjusted EBITDA shown for Performance Materials for the quarter ended June 30, 2018 includes Cabot Microelectronics’ heritage QED business.
The adjustments to segment EBITDA for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2019 represent addbacks of KMG acquisition and integration related expenses, and a charge for the write-up of inventory acquired from KMG to fair value, for inventory sold in the period, and costs related to KMG-Bernuth warehouse fire.
Our business could be adversely affected by any problem or interruption in the supply of the key raw materials we use in our products, including raw materials that do not meet the stringent quality and consistency requirements of our customers, any problem or interruption that may occur during production or delivery of our products, such as weather-related problems, natural disasters, or geopolitical, trade or labor-related issues, or any difficulty in producing sufficient quantities of our products to meet growing demand from our customers.
In particular, severe weather conditions have the potential to adversely affect our operations, damage facilities and increase our costs, and those conditions may also have an indirect effect on our operations by disrupting services provided by service companies or suppliers with whom we have a business relationship.
In addition, there are risks that the Chinese government may, among other things, require the use of local suppliers, compel companies that do business in China to partner with local companies to conduct business, and, provide incentives to government-backed local customers to buy from local suppliers rather than companies like ours, all of which could adversely impact our business, including our results of operations.


item2.txt
Revenue for our third quarter of fiscal 2019 was $271.9 million, which represented an increase of 80.7% from the same quarter of fiscal 2018, primarily due to the Acquisition.
Results benefited from the Acquisition, but were more than offset by acquisition-related expenses, increased amortization and depreciation associated with re-valuing KMG assets to fair value, higher interest expenses resulting from the debt borrowing to finance the Acquisition, costs related to the KMG-Bernuth warehouse fire that occurred in May 2019, and increased tax expense related to newly issued final regulations related to US Tax Reform which impacted our reserves for uncertain tax positions.
Revenue was $271.9 million for the three months ended June 30, 2019, which represented an 80.7%, or $121.4 million, increase from the three months ended June 30, 2018, primarily due to the Acquisition.
Revenue from Cabot Microelectronics’ heritage businesses decreased by $10.1 million, or 6.7%, primarily due to lower sales volume, partially offset by a higher value product mix.
Total cost of sales was $156.5 million for the three months ended June 30, 2019, which represented an increase of 124.4%, or $86.8 million, from the three months ended June 30, 2018, primarily due to the Acquisition.
Net income benefited from the addition of the KMG businesses, and was partially offset by acquisition and integration-related expenses, increased amortization and depreciation associated with re-valuing KMG assets to fair value, higher interest expenses resulting from the debt borrowing to finance the Acquisition, KMG-Bernuth warehouse fire related costs, and discrete charge of $9,128 related to newly issued final regulations related to U.S. Tax Reform which impacted the Company’s reserves for uncertain tax positions.
Total cost of sales was $429.5 million for the nine months ended June 30, 2019, which represented an increase of 110.9%, or $225.9 million, from the nine months ended June 30, 2018.
Total research, development and technical expenses were $39.0 million for nine months ended June 30, 2019, which was relatively flat compared to the same period last year.
The increase was primarily due to $33.1 million of acquisition and integration related costs, $32.5 million of amortization expense related to the Acquisition, and $27.1 million in incremental KMG-related costs associated with the post-Acquisition period during the nine months period.
Net income was partially offset by acquisition and integration-related expenses, a charge for fair value write-up of acquired inventory sold, increased amortization and depreciation associated with re-valuing KMG assets to fair value, higher interest expenses resulting from the debt borrowing to finance the Acquisition, and the increased tax expense related to newly issued final regulations related to US Tax Reform which impacted our reserves for uncertain tax positions.
The $53.1 million increase in Performance Materials revenue was primarily driven by the addition of KMG’s performance materials business in the quarter.
The $202.4 million increase in Electronic Materials revenue was driven by the addition of KMG’s electronic chemicals business since the Acquisition.
Electronic Materials adjusted EBITDA increased from the prior year driven by the addition of KMG’s electronic chemicals results, as well as stronger profitability, driven by the leverage achieved on higher sales volume of the Company’s heritage CMP polishing pads product line.
The $123.3 million increase in Performance Materials revenue was primarily driven by the addition of KMG’s performance materials business post-Acquisition.
The increase in operating cash flows of $13.0 million was due to an increase of net income adjusted for non-cash reconciling items.
In addition, our dividend payments increased by $13.6 million versus the prior year, driven by the doubling of our quarterly dividend, as announced in March 2018, and the new shares issued in connection with the Acquisition.
Certain recurring historical KMG expenses related to depreciation, amortization, financing costs and costs of sales have been adjusted as if the Acquisition had occurred on October 1, 2017.
1 Pro forma adjustments are related to non-recurring items directly attributable to the transaction as well as recurring differences related to amortization or financing costs that were included as if the companies were combined as of October 1, 2017.
4 Certain pro forma adjustments related to depreciation, amortization, financing costs and costs of sales have been made for the October 1, 2018 to June 30, 2019 period assuming that the Acquisition occurred on October 1, 2017.
Additionally, nonrecurring pro forma adjustments have been made for deal costs, compensation expenses related to severance or accelerated stock compensation, and the fair value step-up of inventory directly attributable throughout the nine-month period.
3 Pro forma adjustments are related to items directly attributable to the transaction, such as recurring differences related to depreciation, amortization or financing costs that were included as if the companies were combined as of October 1, 2017.
3 Pro forma adjustments are related to items directly attributable to the transaction, such as recurring differences related to depreciation, amortization, compensation or financing costs that were included as if the companies were combined as of October 1, 2017.
We calculated the income tax effect of the pro forma adjustments using a 22.1% and 23.4% tax rate, which represent the weighted average statutory tax rate for nine-month period ended June 30, 2019 and year-ended September 30, 2018, respectively.


part2.txt
Our success depends on our ability to keep pace with technological changes and advances in the industries in which we operate, particularly the semiconductor industry, and to adapt, improve and customize our products in response to evolving customer needs and industry trends.
Our customers continually pursue lower cost of ownership and higher quality and performance of materials consumed in their manufacturing processes, including CMP slurries and pads and electronic chemicals, as a means to reduce costs, increase the yield in their manufacturing facilities, and achieve desired performance of the IC devices they produce.
Potential technology developments in the semiconductor industry, as well as our customers' efforts to reduce consumption of CMP consumables, including through use of smaller quantities, could render our products less important to the IC device manufacturing process.
Any deferral or significant reduction in the quantity or price of products sold to these principal customers could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Our supply chain includes the raw materials we use to manufacture our products, our production operations and the means by which we deliver our products to our customers.
Our business could be adversely affected by any problem or interruption in the supply of the key raw materials we use in our products, including raw materials that do not meet the stringent quality and consistency requirements of our customers, any problem or interruption that may occur during production or delivery of our products, such as weather-related problems, natural disasters, or geopolitical, trade or labor-related issues, or any difficulty in producing sufficient quantities of our products to meet growing demand from our customers.
In particular, severe weather conditions have the potential to adversely affect our operations, damage facilities and increase our costs, and those conditions may also have an indirect effect on our operations by disrupting services provided by service companies or suppliers with whom we have a business relationship.
As business volume between China and the rest of the world continues to grow, there is risk that geopolitical, regulatory, trade and political matters could adversely affect business for companies like ours based on the complex relationships among China, the United States, and other countries in the Asia Pacific region, which could have a material adverse impact on our business.
In addition, there are risks that the Chinese government may, among other things, require the use of local suppliers, compel companies that do business in China to partner with local companies to conduct business, and, provide incentives to government-backed local customers to buy from local suppliers rather than companies like ours, all of which could adversely impact our business, including our results of operations.
While such changes in laws, regulations and conditions have not had a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition to date, we cannot provide assurances regarding the future effect of any such changes.
The United States Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) and other federal and state agencies in the United States, as well as comparable agencies in other countries where we have facilities or sell our products, have the authority to promulgate regulations that could have a material adverse impact on our operations.
These EHS laws and regulations may require permits for certain types of operations, require the installation of expensive pollution control equipment, place restrictions upon operations or impose substantial liability for pollution and other EHS concerns resulting from our operations.
Compliance with EHS laws and regulations has resulted in ongoing costs for us and could restrict our ability to modify or expand our facilities, continue production, require us to install costly pollution control equipment, or incur significant other expenses, including remediation costs.
Recent changes to the Toxic Substances Control Act (“TSCA”) could result in increased regulation and required testing of chemicals we manufacture and could increase the costs of compliance for our operations.
Our products could also be subject to other future regulatory action that may result in restricting or completely banning their use which could have an adverse effect on our performance and results of operations.
In addition, various state, local and regional regulations and initiatives have been enacted or are being considered related to GHGs. Changes in regulatory, legislative and industry requirements, or changes driven by supply-chain pressures, may shift current customers away from products using penta or certain of our other products and toward alternative products that are believed to have fewer environmental effects.
The EPA, foreign and state regulators, local governments, private environmental advocacy organizations and a number of large industrial companies have proposed or adopted policies designed to decrease the use of a variety of chemicals, including penta and others included in certain of our products.
New privacy security laws and regulations, including the United Kingdom's Data Protection Act 2018 and the European Union General Data Protection Regulation 2016 that became effective May 2018, among others, pose increasingly complex compliance challenges, which may increase compliance costs, and any failure to comply with data privacy laws and regulations could result in significant penalties.


