item1.txt
In the opinion of management, these unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements include all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for the fair statement of Cabot Microelectronics' financial position as of December 31, 2017, cash flows for the three months ended December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, and results of operations for the three months ended December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016.
The results of operations for the three months ended December 31, 2017 may not be indicative of results to be expected for future periods, including the fiscal year ending September 30, 2018.
This Form 10-Q does not contain all of the footnote disclosures from the annual financial statements and should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes thereto included in Cabot Microelectronics' Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017.
We have presented these securities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2017 as a current asset due to management's intent to use these funds for current business requirements.
Unrealized gains and losses, net of the related tax effect, are recorded within other comprehensive income.
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received from the sale of an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date.
The Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") established a three-level hierarchy for disclosure based on the extent and level of judgment used to estimate fair value.
The following table presents financial instruments, other than long-term debt, that we measured at fair value on a recurring basis at December 31, 2017 and September 30, 2017.
The long-term asset was adjusted to $1,157 in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 to reflect its fair value as of December 31, 2017.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2018, we adopted ASU No. 2017-04 "Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment." The provisions of this standard eliminate Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test, which required an entity to determine the fair value of its assets and liabilities at the impairment testing date of its goodwill and compare it to its carrying amount to determine a possible impairment loss.
Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested for impairment annually in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year or more frequently if indicators of potential impairment exist, using a fair-value-based approach.
There were no indicators of potential impairment during the quarter ended December 31, 2017, so it was not necessary to perform an impairment review for goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets during the quarter.
Our ARS investments at December 31, 2017 consisted of two tax exempt municipal debt securities with a total par value of $5,319, both of which have maturities greater than ten years.
This fee was recorded as a long-term asset at its present value and is being amortized into cost of goods sold on a straight-line basis through the expiration date of the agreement.
As discussed in Note 3, we recorded a long-term asset and a corresponding long-term liability of $1,157 representing the fair value of our SERP investments as of December 31, 2017.
At December 31, 2017, the fair value of the Term Loan, using Level 2 inputs, approximates its carrying value of $141,094 as the loan bears a floating market rate of interest.
In addition, all derivatives, whether designated in hedging relationships or not, are required to be recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value on a gross basis.
As of December 31, 2017, the change in the fair value of the forward contracts in the net investment hedge relationship was $4,372, which was recorded in foreign currency translation adjustments within other comprehensive income.
The interest rate swap agreements have been deemed to be effective since inception, so there has been no impact on our Consolidated Statements of Income (Loss).
We recorded a $200 unrealized gain, net of tax, in accumulated comprehensive income during the three months ended December 31, 2017 for these interest rate swaps.
During the next 12 months, we expect approximately $182 to be reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income into interest expense related to our interest rate swaps based on projected rates of the LIBOR forward curve as of December 31, 2017.
Refer to Note 18 of "Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements" in Item 8 of Part II of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017, for additional information regarding commitments and contingencies.
Benefit costs, consisting primarily of service costs, are recorded as fringe benefit expense under cost of goods sold and operating expenses in our Consolidated Statements of Income (Loss).
For more information regarding these plans, refer to Note 18 of "Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements" included in Item 8 of Part II of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017.
The before tax amounts reclassified from AOCI to net income during the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, related to our cash flow hedges, were recorded as interest expense on our Consolidated Statement of Income (Loss).
For the three months ended December 31, 2017, we recorded $7,144 in currency translation gains, net of tax, primarily due to exchange rate fluctuations in the Japanese yen and Korean won versus the U.S. dollar, that are included in other comprehensive income, including a net loss of $3,241 related to our net investment hedge.
These gains and losses primarily relate to changes in the U.S. dollar value of assets and liabilities denominated in local currencies when these asset and liability amounts are translated at month-end exchange rates.
We record share-based compensation expense for all share-based awards, including stock option grants, and restricted stock, restricted stock unit and performance share unit ("PSU") awards, and employee stock purchase plan purchases.
As of December 2017, the provisions of new stock option grants and restricted stock unit awards state that except in certain circumstances including termination for cause, once an employee meets the retirement eligibility requirements, any remaining unvested share-based awards will continue to vest regardless of termination of service.
Applying the guidance in ASC 718 "Compensation—Stock Compensation", we recorded $1,744 of related share-based compensation expense in the three months ended December 31, 2017.
For additional information regarding the estimation of fair value, refer to Note 13 of "Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements" included in Item 8 of Part II of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017.
The Company's effective tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was 108.4%, compared to 20.3% in the same quarter last year.
Other factors that impacted the Company's effective tax rate for the three months ended December 31, 2017, as compared with the prior year period, were primarily related to the changes in the mix of foreign and domestic earnings and absence of benefits of a tax holiday in South Korea, which expired as of October 2017.
The Company currently expects its effective tax rate for the remainder of the fiscal year to be within the range of 21% to 24%.
Previously, before the impact of the Tax Act, the Company had estimated an effective tax rate of 24% to 27% for the full fiscal year.
Basic earnings per share (EPS) is calculated by dividing net income available to common stockholders by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period, excluding the effects of unvested restricted stock awards that have a right to receive non-forfeitable dividends, which are considered participating securities as prescribed by the two-class method under ASC 260 "Earnings per Share".
Enactment of the Tax Act resulted in the incurrence of a net loss for the quarter ending December 31, 2017.
Pursuant to the adoption of ASU 2016-09 in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, the tax benefits associated with share-based compensation expense were recorded as a tax benefit in our Consolidated Statements of Income (Loss).
For the three months ended December 31, 2017, as noted above, all outstanding stock options were excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share as the dilutive shares in a net loss situation would be anti-dilutive.
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers" (Topic 606), an updated standard on revenue recognition.
ASU 2014-09 provides enhancements to how revenue is reported and improves comparability in the financial statements of companies reporting using IFRS and U.S. GAAP.
In August 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-14, "Deferral of Effective Date" (Topic 606).
In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-08, "Principal versus Agent Considerations (Reporting Revenue Gross versus Net)" (Topic 606).
We anticipate we will adopt the new revenue standard in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 using the modified retrospective approach to adoption, which will require us to record the cumulative effect of adopting the standard as an adjustment to the beginning balance of retained earnings.
The provisions of ASU 2015-11 require an entity to measure inventory at the lower of cost and net realizable value.
We adopted ASU 2015-11 effective October 1, 2017, and this pronouncement had no material effect on our financial statements.
In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-01, "Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities" (Subtopic 825-10).
The provision of ASU 2016-01 requires equity investments, other than those accounted for under the equity method of accounting or those that result in consolidation, to be measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in net income.
ASU 2016-01 simplifies the impairment assessment of equity securities by permitting a qualitative assessment each reporting period, and makes changes to presentation and disclosure of certain classes of financial assets and liabilities.
The provisions of ASU 2016-02 require a dual approach for lessee accounting under which a lessee would recognize a right-of-use asset and a corresponding lease liability.
The guidance also requires qualitative and specific quantitative disclosures to supplement the amounts recorded in the financial statements, to afford better understanding of an entity's leasing activities, including any significant judgments and estimates.
In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-05, "Effect of Derivative Contract Novations on Existing Hedge Accounting Relationships" (Topic 815).
The provisions of ASU 2016-05 provide clarification that a change in a counterparty of a derivative instrument that has been designated as a hedging instrument does not require dedesignation of that hedging relationship, provided that all other hedge accounting criteria is met.
We do not believe the adoption of this standard will have a material effect on our financial statements.
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13, "Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments" (Topic 326).
The provisions of this standard require financial assets measured at amortized cost to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected.
ASU 2016-13 also provides that credit losses relating to available-for-sale debt securities should be recorded through an allowance for credit losses.
We do not believe the adoption of this standard will have a material effect on our financial statements as we currently do not have any of the cash receipts or payments discussed in this standard.
We adopted ASU 2016-17 effective October 1, 2017, and this pronouncement had no material effect on our financial statements as we currently have no interest in any entities that may be considered VIE.
We adopted ASU 2017-01 effective October 1, 2017, and this pronouncement had no material effect on our financial statements.
The provisions of this standard eliminate Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test, which required an entity to determine the fair value of its assets and liabilities at the impairment testing date of its goodwill and compare it to its carrying amount to determine a possible impairment loss.
We adopted ASU 2017-04 effective October 1, 2017 and we will apply the new guidance in our annual test for goodwill impairment in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018.
In March 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-07 "Improving the Presentation of Net Period Pension Cost and Net Period Postretirement Benefit Cost" (Topic 715).
The provisions of ASU 2017-07 provided specific guidance on the presentation of the components of net benefit cost.
The provisions of ASU 2017-09 provide specific guidance about which changes to the term or conditions of a share-based payment require an entity to apply modification accounting.
The provisions of this standard amend the hedge accounting model in ASC 815 to expand an entity's ability to hedge nonfinancial and financial risk components, reduce complexity in fair value hedges of interest rate risk, eliminate the requirement to separately measure and report hedge ineffectiveness, and generally require the entire change in the fair value of a hedging instrument to be presented in the same income statement line as the hedged item.
During the three months ended December 31, 2017, Samsung and Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, were our largest customers accounting for approximately 18% and 13%, respectively, of our revenue.
During the three months ended December 31, 2016, Samsung, Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company (TSMC), and Micron Technology, Inc. were our largest customers accounting for approximately 16%, 14%, and 11%, respectively, of our revenue.


item2.txt
Revenue for our first quarter of fiscal 2018 was $140.0 million, which represented an increase of 13.6% from the first quarter of fiscal 2017, and was a quarterly record for the Company.
Revenue was $140.0 million for the three months ended December 31, 2017, which represented a 13.6%, or $16.7 million, increase from the three months ended December 31, 2016.
The increase was primarily due to costs of $2.8 million associated with the CFO transition described above, higher staffing related expenses of $1.2 million, higher share-based compensation expense of $0.8 million, higher incentive compensation expenses of $0.6 million, higher legal and professional fees of $0.4 million and higher information and technology expenses of $0.4 million.
The significant increase is primarily driven by discrete adjustments related to the impact of the Tax Act. These adjustments increased the Company's income tax expense by approximately $32.9 million.
The significant decrease was primarily related to the impact of the Tax Act. One-time effects of the Tax Act increased the Company's income tax expense by approximately $32.9 million, and therefore decreased the Company's net income by the same amount.
We generated $30.6 million in cash flows from operating activities in the first three months of fiscal 2018, compared to $25.1 million in cash from operating activities in the first three months of fiscal 2017.
Our cash provided by operating activities in the first three months of fiscal 2018 reflected a net loss of $3.1 million, $49.6 million in non-cash items, including $24.6 million related to the deemed repatriation transition tax of the Tax Act, and a $15.9 million net decrease in working capital.
The increase in cash flows from operating activities compared to the first three months of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to higher revenue and gross margin, and also reflected the non-cash impacts of the Tax Act, and changes in the timing and amount of accrued expense payments, including payments related to our Short-Term Incentive Program ("STIP"), and a higher accounts receivable balance at December 31, 2017, due to an increase in revenue.
In the first three months of fiscal 2018, cash flows used in investing activities were $52.5 million, representing $48.3 million in purchases of investments designated as available-for-sale securities, net of $1.9 million in sales proceeds, under a managed investment arrangement, and property, plant and equipment additions of $4.2 million.
In the first three months of fiscal 2017, cash flows used in investing activities were $4.9 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment.
In the first three months of fiscal 2018, cash flows used in financing activities were $6.6 million.
We also used $3.1 million to repurchase common stock pursuant to the terms of our 2012 Omnibus Incentive Plan (OIP) for shares withheld from award recipients to cover payroll taxes on the vesting of restricted stock and restricted stock units granted under the OIP, and used $1.6 million to repurchase common stock under our share repurchase program.
The tax benefit of $2.8 million in our first quarter of fiscal 2018 related to exercises of stock options under the EIP and OIP, and vesting of restricted stock and restricted stock units awarded under the OIP is now presented in the operating activities section of the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows pursuant to the adoption of ASU 2016-09.
In the first three months of fiscal 2017, cash flows provided by financing activities were $7.6 million.
We also used $1.1 million to repurchase common stock under our share repurchase program and $1.9 million to repurchase common stock pursuant to the terms of our OIP for shares withheld from award recipients to cover payroll taxes on the vesting of restricted stock and restricted stock units granted under the OIP, which we have continued to present as a financing activity under ASU 2016-09.
In January 2016, our Board of Directors authorized an increase in the amount available under our share repurchase program from the previously remaining $75.0 million to $150.0 million.
Under this program, we repurchased 17,250 shares for $1.6 million during the first three months of fiscal 2018 and we repurchased 18,724 shares for $1.1 million during the first three months of fiscal 2017.
As of December 31, 2017, approximately $120.4 million remained outstanding under our share repurchase program.
In January 2016, our Board of Directors authorized an increase in the amount available under our share repurchase program to $150.0 million.
Under this program, we repurchased 17,250 shares for $1.6 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
As of December 31, 2017, $120.4 million remained outstanding under our share repurchase program.


item3.txt
However, we also incur expenses in foreign countries that are transacted in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, which mitigates the exposure on the Consolidated Statements of Income (Loss).
During the three months ended December 2017, we recorded $7.1 million in foreign currency translation gains, net of tax, that are included in other comprehensive income.
During fiscal 2017, we recorded $6.7 million in foreign currency translation losses, net of tax, that are included in other comprehensive income.
In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, we entered into forward foreign exchange contracts in an effort to protect our net investment in a foreign operation against potential adverse changes resulting from foreign currency fluctuation.
In the three months ended December 31, 2017, we recorded $4.4 million in gross currency translation losses related to this hedge, which are included in other comprehensive income noted above.


item4.txt
Our management, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO), has conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) as of December 31, 2017.
Based on that evaluation, our CEO and CFO have concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective to ensure that information required to be disclosed in our Exchange Act reports is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms, and to ensure that such information is accumulated and communicated to management, including the CEO and CFO, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Because of inherent limitations, our disclosure controls or our internal control over financial reporting may not prevent all errors and all fraud.
Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected.


part2.txt
Our business is affected by economic and industry conditions and our revenue is primarily dependent upon semiconductor demand.
Historically, semiconductor demand has fluctuated due to economic and industry cycles and seasonal shifts in demand, which can affect our business, causing demand for our products to fluctuate.
If the global economy or the semiconductor industry weakens, whether in general or as a result of specific factors, such as macroeconomic factors, or unpredictable events such as natural disasters or geopolitical events, we could experience material adverse impacts on our results of operations and financial condition.
Our success depends on our ability to keep pace with technological changes and advances in the semiconductor industry and to adapt, improve and customize our products for advanced IC applications in response to evolving customer needs and industry trends.
Since its inception, the semiconductor industry has experienced technological changes and advances in the design, manufacture, performance and application of IC devices.
Our customers continually pursue lower cost of ownership and higher quality and performance of materials consumed in their manufacturing processes, including CMP slurries and pads, as a means to reduce costs, increase the yield in their manufacturing facilities, and achieve desired performance of the IC devices they produce.
Potential technology developments in the semiconductor industry, as well as our customers' efforts to reduce consumption of CMP consumables, including through use of smaller quantities, could render our products less important to the IC device manufacturing process.
Any deferral or significant reduction in the quantity or price of CMP consumables sold to these principal customers could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.
During the three months ended December 31, 2017, Samsung and Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, were our largest customers accounting for approximately 18% and 13%, respectively, of our revenue.
During the three months ended December 31, 2016, Samsung, Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company (TSMC), and Micron Technology, Inc. were our largest customers accounting for approximately 16%, 14%, and 11%, respectively, of our revenue.
Our supply chain includes the raw materials we use to manufacture our products, our production operations and the means by which we deliver our products to our customers.
Our business could be adversely affected by any problem or interruption in the supply of the key raw materials we use in our CMP slurries and pads, including raw materials that do not meet the stringent quality and consistency requirements of our customers, any problem or interruption that may occur during production or delivery of our products, such as weather-related problems, natural disasters, or geopolitical or labor-related issues, or any difficulty in producing sufficient quantities of our products to meet growing demand from our customers.
We may encounter risks in doing business in certain foreign countries, including, but not limited to, adverse changes in economic and political conditions, both in foreign locations and in the United States with respect to non-U.S. operations of U.S. businesses like ours, geopolitical tensions, fluctuation in exchange rates, compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations and related audits and investigations, as well as difficulty in enforcing business and customer contracts and agreements, including protection of intellectual property rights.
As business volume between China and the rest of the world continues to grow, there is risk that geopolitical, regulatory and political matters could adversely affect trade for companies like ours based on the complex relationships among China, the United States, and other countries in the Asia Pacific region, which could have a material adverse impact on our business.
In addition, there are risks that the Chinese government may, among other things, require the use of local suppliers, compel companies that do business in China to partner with local companies to conduct business, and, provide incentives to government-backed local customers to buy from local suppliers rather than companies like ours, all of which could adversely impact our business, including our results of operations.


