item1.txt
In the opinion of management, these unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements include all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for the fair statement of Cabot Microelectronics' financial position as of June 30, 2018, cash flows for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 and June 30, 2017, and results of operations for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018 and June 30, 2017.
The results of operations for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018 may not be indicative of results to be expected for future periods, including the fiscal year ending September 30, 2018.
This Report on Form 10-Q does not contain all of the footnote disclosures from the annual financial statements and should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes thereto included in Cabot Microelectronics' Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017.
The results of operations for the quarter ended December 31, 2017 and nine months ended June 30, 2018 include a correction to prior period amounts, which we determined to be immaterial to the prior periods to which they relate and are expected to be immaterial to our fiscal 2018 results.
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received from the sale of an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date.
The Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") established a three-level hierarchy for disclosure based on the extent and level of judgment used to estimate fair value.
The following table presents financial instruments, other than long-term debt, that we measured at fair value on a recurring basis at June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017.
The long-term investment was adjusted to $1,089 in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 to reflect its fair value as of June 30, 2018.
As a result of this sale of assets in March 2018, we received net proceeds of $3,277, of which $250 is held in escrow, and recorded a gain of $956 in other income in the Consolidated Statements of Income.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2018, we adopted ASU No. 2017-04 "Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment." The provisions of this standard eliminate Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test, which required an entity to determine the fair value of its assets and liabilities at the impairment testing date of its goodwill and compare it to its carrying amount to determine a possible impairment loss.
Our ARS investment at June 30, 2018 consisted of one tax exempt municipal debt security with a par and fair value of $3,975 which has a maturity greater than ten years.
This fee was recorded as a long-term asset at its present value and is being amortized into cost of goods sold on a straight-line basis through the expiration date of the agreement.
As discussed in Note 3, we recorded a long-term asset and a corresponding long-term liability of $1,089 representing the fair value of our SERP investments as of June 30, 2018.
In addition, all derivatives, whether designated in hedging relationships or not, are required to be recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value on a gross basis.
Unrealized gains and losses were designated as effective or ineffective based on a comparison of the changes in fair value of the interest rate swaps and changes in fair value of the underlying exposures being hedged.
Refer to Note 18 of "Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements" in Item 8 of Part II of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017, for additional information regarding commitments and contingencies.
For more information regarding these plans, refer to Note 18 of "Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements" included in Item 8 of Part II of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017.
For the nine months ended June 30, 2018, we recorded $2,276 in currency translation gains, net of tax, primarily due to exchange rate fluctuations in the Japanese yen and Korean won versus the U.S. dollar, that are included in other comprehensive income.
These gains and losses primarily relate to changes in the U.S. dollar value of assets and liabilities denominated in local currencies when these asset and liability amounts are translated at month-end exchange rates.
We record share-based compensation expense for all share-based awards, including stock option grants, and restricted stock, restricted stock unit and performance share unit ("PSU") awards, and employee stock purchase plan purchases.
As of December 2017, the provisions of new stock option grants and restricted stock unit awards state that except in certain circumstances including termination for cause, once an employee meets the retirement eligibility requirements, any remaining unvested share-based awards will continue to vest regardless of termination of service.
During the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018, we recorded $858 and $2,602 of shared-based compensation expense associated with executive transitions, respectively.
For additional information regarding the estimation of fair value, refer to Note 13 of "Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements" included in Item 8 of Part II of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017.
The significant increase in our effective tax rate for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 compared to the prior year is primarily driven by discrete adjustments related to the enactment of the Tax Act in the United States in December 2017.
Other factors that impacted the Company's effective tax rate for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018 were primarily related to benefits in excess of compensation cost from share based compensation recorded in the income statement (as opposed to equity prior to October 2017), the absence of benefits of a tax holiday in South Korea that expired as of October 2017, and benefits related to changes in prior year tax positions.
Basic earnings per share (EPS) is calculated by dividing net income available to common stockholders by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period, excluding the effects of unvested restricted stock awards that have a right to receive non-forfeitable dividends, which are considered participating securities as prescribed by the two-class method under ASC 260 "Earnings per Share".
Pursuant to the adoption of ASU 2016-09 in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, the tax benefits associated with share-based compensation plans were recorded as a tax benefit in our Consolidated Statements of Income.
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers" (Topic 606), an updated standard on revenue recognition.
ASU 2014-09 provides enhancements to how revenue is reported and improves comparability in the financial statements of companies reporting using IFRS and U.S. GAAP.
In August 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-14, "Deferral of Effective Date" (Topic 606).
In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-08, "Principal versus Agent Considerations (Reporting Revenue Gross versus Net)" (Topic 606).
In April 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-10, ASU No. 2016-11, and ASU 2016-12, and ASU 2017-13 issued in September 2017, all of which provide additional clarification of the original revenue standard.
We continue to work to identify potential differences that would result from applying the requirements of the new standard to our revenue contracts, and identify and implement changes to business processes, systems and controls to support recognition and disclosure under the new standard.
We anticipate we will adopt the new revenue standard in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 using the modified retrospective approach to adoption, which will require us to record the cumulative effect of adopting the standard as an adjustment to the beginning balance of retained earnings.
The provisions of ASU 2015-11 require an entity to measure inventory at the lower of cost and net realizable value.
We adopted ASU 2015-11 effective October 1, 2017, and this pronouncement had no material effect on our financial statements.
In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-01, "Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities" (Subtopic 825-10).
The provision of ASU 2016-01 requires equity investments, other than those accounted for under the equity method of accounting or those that result in consolidation, to be measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in net income.
ASU 2016-01 simplifies the impairment assessment of equity securities by permitting a qualitative assessment each reporting period, and makes changes to presentation and disclosure of certain classes of financial assets and liabilities.
The provisions of ASU 2016-02 require a dual approach for lessee accounting under which a lessee would recognize a right-of-use asset and a corresponding lease liability.
The guidance also requires qualitative and specific quantitative disclosures to supplement the amounts recorded in the financial statements, to afford better understanding of an entity's leasing activities, including any significant judgments and estimates.
In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-05, "Effect of Derivative Contract Novations on Existing Hedge Accounting Relationships" (Topic 815).
The provisions of ASU 2016-05 provide clarification that a change in a counterparty of a derivative instrument that has been designated as a hedging instrument does not require dedesignation of that hedging relationship, provided that all other hedge accounting criteria is met.
We do not believe the adoption of this standard will have a material effect on our financial statements.
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13, "Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments" (Topic 326).
The provisions of this standard require financial assets measured at amortized cost to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected.
The provisions of this standard provide guidance on the classification within the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows of certain types of cash receipts and cash payments in an effort to eliminate diversity in practice.
We do not believe the adoption of this standard will have a material effect on our financial statements as we currently do not have any of the cash receipts or payments discussed in this standard.
In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-16 "Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory" (Topic 740).
The provisions of this standard provide guidance on recognition of taxes related to intra-entity transfer of assets other than inventory when the transfer occurs.
In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-17 "Interest Held through Related Parties That Are under Common Control" (Topic 810).
The provisions of this standard provide further guidance related to ASU 2015-02, and provide guidance on consolidation in relation to Variable Interest Entities (VIEs) and related parties.
We adopted ASU 2016-17 effective October 1, 2017, and this pronouncement had no material effect on our financial statements as we currently have no interest in any entities that may be considered VIEs.
We adopted ASU 2017-01 effective October 1, 2017, and this pronouncement had no material effect on our financial statements.
The provisions of this standard eliminate Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test, which required an entity to determine the fair value of its assets and liabilities at the impairment testing date of its goodwill and compare it to its carrying amount to determine a possible impairment loss.
We adopted ASU 2017-04 effective October 1, 2017 and we will apply the new guidance in our annual test for goodwill impairment in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018.
In March 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-07 "Improving the Presentation of Net Period Pension Cost and Net Period Postretirement Benefit Cost" (Topic 715).
The provisions of ASU 2017-07 provided specific guidance on the presentation of the components of net benefit cost.
The provisions of ASU 2017-09 provide specific guidance about which changes to the term or conditions of a share-based payment require an entity to apply modification accounting.
The provisions of this standard amend the hedge accounting model in ASC 815 to expand an entity's ability to hedge nonfinancial and financial risk components, reduce complexity in fair value hedges of interest rate risk, eliminate the requirement to separately measure and report hedge ineffectiveness, and generally require the entire change in the fair value of a hedging instrument to be presented in the same income statement line as the hedged item.


item2.txt
Gross margin for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 was 53.0% of revenue, compared to 49.7% during the same period last year, which includes 90 and 100-basis points of adverse impact of NexPlanar amortization expense, comparatively.
Factors affecting our gross margin for both the quarter and the first nine months of fiscal 2018 compared to last year included higher sales volume and a higher value product mix, partially offset by higher fixed manufacturing costs, including higher staffing-related expense.
The year-over-year decrease was primarily due to the negative impact of the enactment of the Tax Act in December 2017, which reduced diluted earnings per share by $1.24, and the positive impact from higher revenue and a higher gross margin, partially offset by higher operating expenses.
The increase in cost of goods sold was primarily driven by a $3.9 million increase due to higher sales volume, a $1.6 million increase in fixed manufacturing costs, including higher staffing-related expenses, a $0.9 million increase due to foreign exchange fluctuations, and a $0.8 million increase due to product mix, partially offset by a $3.5 million decrease in other variable manufacturing costs, including material costs.
Fixed manufacturing costs included $1.3 million of NexPlanar amortization expense compared to $1.2 million in same period of fiscal 2017.
The decrease was primarily due to the absence of an impairment charge of $0.9 million that occurred in the three months ended June 30, 2017, lower supplies and equipment costs used in research and development of $0.5 million, and lower professional expenses of $0.3 million, partially offset by the absence of a gain on equipment disposal of $0.6 million that occurred in the three months ended June 30, 2017.
General and administrative expenses were $19.5 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018, which represented an increase of 39.8%, or $5.6 million, from the three months ended June 30, 2017.
The increase was primarily due to higher staffing-related expenses of $1.9 million, including STIP costs, higher professional expenses of $1.4 million, and executive transition related costs of $1.4 million that occurred in the third quarter of fiscal 2018.
The increase in revenue was primarily driven by a $42.4 million increase due to higher sales volume, a $20.4 million increase due to higher value product mix, and a $4.0 million increase due to exchange rate fluctuations, partially offset by a $3.8 million decrease due to price changes.
The increase in cost of goods sold was primarily driven by a $9.9 million increase due to higher sales volume, a $6.9 million increase in fixed manufacturing costs, including higher incentive compensation expense, and a $1.9 million increase due to foreign exchange fluctuations, partially offset by a $5.7 million decrease in variable manufacturing costs, including material costs.
Fixed manufacturing costs included $3.9 million of NexPlanar amortization expense, compared to $3.6 million in same period of fiscal 2017.
The increase in gross margin was primarily due to higher sales volume, a higher value product mix, partially offset by higher fixed manufacturing costs, including higher incentive compensation.
General and administrative expenses were $56.2 million for the nine months ended June 30, 2018, which represented an increase of 36.6%, or $15.1 million, from the nine months ended June 30, 2017.
The increase was primarily due to higher staffing-related costs of $4.7 million, including STIP costs, $4.2 million in costs associated with executive transitions, higher long-term incentive compensation expenses of $1.6 million, higher professional expenses of $1.6 million, and higher information technology expenses of $1.2 million.
The increase was primarily due to higher interest income of $1.7 million resulting from higher investment balances and higher average interest rates, gain on the sale of certain ESF assets of $1.0 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2018, and gain on the termination of interest rate swap agreements of $0.5 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2018, partially offset by higher foreign exchange loss of $0.4 million.
The increase in the effective tax rate during the first nine months of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to the unfavorable initial impact of the Tax Act that was enacted in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 and the absence of benefits of the tax holiday in South Korea, which expired as of October 2017, partially offset by the benefit from stock option exercises beginning October 2017 and benefits related to changes in prior year tax positions.
The increase was primarily due to higher revenue and a higher gross margin, partially offset by higher operating expenses and the $32.6 million initial unfavorable impact of the Tax Act enacted in December 2017.
Our cash provided by operating activities in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 reflected net income of $61.8 million, $69.7 million in non-cash items, including $24.6 million related to the deemed repatriation transition tax of the Tax Act, and a $27.5 million decrease in cash flow due to a net increase in working capital.
The increase in cash flows from operating activities compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to higher revenue and gross margin, partially offset by a higher increase in working capital.
In the first nine months of fiscal 2018, cash flows used in investing activities were $145.3 million, representing $178.4 million in purchases of investments designated as available-for-sale securities under a managed investment arrangement that were offset by $55.2 million in proceeds upon the subsequent sale of part of these investments, property, plant and equipment additions of $15.2 million, and payment for net investment hedge termination of $9.9 million, partially offset by $3.0 million of cash received for the sale of certain ESF assets that occurred in the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
In the first nine months of fiscal 2017, cash flows used in investing activities were $15.1 million, representing $15.3 million in purchases of property, plant and equipment, net of $0.6 million in proceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment.
In the first nine months of fiscal 2018, cash flows used in financing activities were $177.7 million.
In January 2016, our Board of Directors authorized an increase in the amount available under our share repurchase program from the previously remaining $75.0 million to $150.0 million.
Under this program, we repurchased 276,792 shares for $30.1 million during the first nine months of fiscal 2018, and we repurchased 55,878 shares for $3.8 million during the first nine months of fiscal 2017.
In January 2016, our Board of Directors authorized an increase in the amount available under our share repurchase program to $150.0 million.
Under this program, we repurchased 210,814 shares for $23.5 million during the third quarter of fiscal 2018.


item3.txt
Some of our foreign operations maintain their accounting records in their local currencies.
The primary currencies to which we have exposure are the Korean won, Japanese yen, and the New Taiwan dollar.
Approximately 26% of our revenue is transacted in currencies other than the U.S. dollar.
However, we also incur expenses in foreign countries that are transacted in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, which provides a natural hedge and mitigates the exposure on the Consolidated Statements of Income.
We periodically enter into forward contracts in an effort to manage foreign currency exchange exposure on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
At June 30, 2018, we owned one auction rate security (ARS) with a total estimated fair and par value $4.0 million, which was classified as other long-term assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.


item4.txt
Our management, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO), has conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) as of June 30, 2018.
Based on that evaluation, our CEO and CFO have concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective to ensure that information required to be disclosed in our Exchange Act reports is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms, and to ensure that such information is accumulated and communicated to management, including the CEO and CFO, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Because of inherent limitations, our disclosure controls or our internal control over financial reporting may not prevent all errors and all fraud.
Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected.


part2.txt
Our business is affected by economic and industry conditions and our revenue is primarily dependent upon semiconductor demand.
Historically, semiconductor demand has fluctuated due to economic and industry cycles and seasonal shifts in demand, which can affect our business, causing demand for our products to fluctuate.
Furthermore, competitive dynamics within the semiconductor industry may impact our business.
If the global economy or the semiconductor industry weakens, whether in general or as a result of specific factors, such as macroeconomic factors, or unpredictable events such as natural disasters or geopolitical events, we could experience material adverse impacts on our results of operations and financial condition.
Our success depends on our ability to keep pace with technological changes and advances in the semiconductor industry, and to adapt, improve and customize our products for advanced IC applications in response to evolving customer needs and industry trends.
Since its inception, the semiconductor industry has experienced technological changes and advances in the design, manufacture, performance and application of IC devices.
Our customers continually pursue lower cost of ownership and higher quality and performance of materials consumed in their manufacturing processes, including CMP slurries and pads, as a means to reduce costs, increase the yield in their manufacturing facilities, and achieve desired performance of the IC devices they produce.
Potential technology developments in the semiconductor industry, as well as our customers' efforts to reduce consumption of CMP consumables, including through use of smaller quantities, could render our products less important to the IC device manufacturing process.
Over the past several years, the semiconductor industry has been consolidating as the larger semiconductor manufacturers have generally grown faster than the smaller ones, through business gains, mergers and acquisitions, and strategic alliances.
Any deferral or significant reduction in the quantity or price of CMP consumables sold to these principal customers could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.
During the nine months ended June 30, 2018, Samsung, Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company (TSMC) and Hynix Semiconductor were our largest customers, accounting for approximately 18% and 12% and 10%, respectively, of our revenue.
Our supply chain includes the raw materials we use to manufacture our products, our production operations and the means by which we deliver our products to our customers.
Our business could be adversely affected by any problem or interruption in the supply of the key raw materials we use in our CMP slurries and pads, including raw materials that do not meet the stringent quality and consistency requirements of our customers, any problem or interruption that may occur during production or delivery of our products, such as weather-related problems, natural disasters, or geopolitical, trade, or labor-related issues, or any difficulty in producing sufficient quantities of our products to meet growing demand from our customers.
As business volume between China and the rest of the world continues to grow, there is risk that geopolitical, regulatory, trade and political matters could adversely affect business for companies like ours based on the complex relationships among China, the United States, and other countries in the Asia Pacific region, which could have a material adverse impact on our business.
In addition, there are risks that the Chinese government may, among other things, require the use of local suppliers, compel companies that do business in China to partner with local companies to conduct business, and provide incentives to government-backed local customers to buy from local suppliers rather than companies like ours, all of which could adversely impact our business, including our results of operations.


