item1.txt
Except for the discussion on revenue recognition below, no material changes have been made to the Company’s significant accounting policies disclosed in Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018.
We have determined that the effect of applying the new revenue standards during the quarter ended December 31, 2018 was immaterial to our financial statements compared to revenue guidance in effect before the adoption of the new revenue standards.
As a result, for the quarter ended December 31, 2018, we are not disclosing the quantitative amount by which each financial statement line item is affected by the application of the new revenue standards.
For the Company’s contracts that have an original duration of one year or less as of the adoption date, the Company uses the practical expedient applicable to such contracts and does not consider the time value of money.
Further, because of the short duration of these contracts, the Company has not disclosed the transaction price for the future performance obligations as of the end of each reporting period for contracts having an expected duration of one year or less.
for disaggregated revenue, the reconciliation of contract balances and transaction price allocation to remaining performance obligations for contracts expected to remain effective beyond one year.
At contract inception, the Company assesses the goods and services promised in its contracts with customers and identifies a performance obligation for each material promise to the customer.
A majority of the Company’s contracts have a single performance obligation which represents, in most cases, the products, equipment or services being sold to the customer.
Some contracts include multiple performance obligations including prospective tiered price discounts or delivery of free product that we have concluded represents a material right.
Contracts vary in length and payment terms vary by the type and location of the Company’s customers and the products or services offered.
For these contracts, the transaction price is determined upon establishment of the contract that contains the final terms of the sale, including the description, quantity, and price of goods or services purchased.
In such cases, we record deferred revenue until the performance obligation is satisfied, which represents a contract liability, and is included in the contract liabilities discussed in Note 3 of this Form 10-Q.
The Company recognizes revenue related to product sales at a point in time following the transfer of control of such products to the customer, which generally occurs upon shipment, or delivery depending on the terms of the underlying contracts.
For sales contracts that contain multiple performance obligations, the Company allocates the transaction price to each performance obligation identified in the contract based on relative standalone selling prices or estimates of such prices.
Most contracts where we have determined there to be multiple performance obligations relate to where we have identified a material right to exist such that we provide prospective tiered pricing discounts or free product.
For certain contracts within the Performance Materials segment, commissions are paid to sales agents based upon a percentage of end-customer invoice value.
For shipping and handling activities performed after a customer obtains control of the goods, the Company has elected to account for these costs as activities to fulfill the promise to transfer the goods and included in cost of sales.
The guidance also requires qualitative and specific quantitative disclosures to supplement the amounts recorded in the financial statements, to afford better understanding of an entity's leasing activities, including any significant judgments and estimates.
The provisions of this standard require financial assets measured at amortized cost to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected.
Pursuant to the adoption, net service costs are recorded as fringe benefit expense under cost of goods sold and operating expenses, and all other costs are recorded in the Other income (expense), net in our Consolidated Statements of Income (Loss).
The provisions of ASU 2017-09 provide specific guidance about which changes to the term or conditions of a share-based payment require an entity to apply modification accounting.
The provisions of this standard amend the hedge accounting model in ASC 815 to expand an entity's ability to hedge nonfinancial and financial risk components, reduce complexity in fair value hedges of interest rate risk, eliminate the requirement to separately measure and report hedge ineffectiveness, and generally require the entire change in the fair value of a hedging instrument to be presented in the same income statement line as the hedged item.
The amount of revenue recognized during the three months ended December 31, 2018 that were included in the opening current contract liability balances in our Performance Materials segment were $2,153.
The amount of revenue recognized during the three months ended December 31, 2018 that was included in our opening contract liability balances in our Electronic Materials segment was not material.
The table below discloses (1) the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to performance obligations that are unsatisfied (or partially unsatisfied) as of the end of the reporting period for contracts with an original duration of greater than one year and (2) when the Company expects to recognize this revenue.
We acquired KMG to extend and strengthen our position as one of the leading suppliers of consumable materials to the semiconductor industry and to expand our portfolio with the addition of KMG’s performance materials business, which we believe will enable us to be a leading global provider of performance products and services to the pipeline operations and energy industries.
In connection with the borrowing, we incurred $21,408 in debt issuance costs and original issue discount fees, $859 of which relates to the Revolving Credit Facility and is recorded as a prepaid asset, and the remaining $20,549 in debt issuance costs relates to the Term Loan Facility and is presented as a reduction of long-term debt.
These debt issuance costs are amortized and recorded in Interest expense in the Consolidated Statements of Income (Loss) over the life of the Revolving Credit Facility and Term Loan Facility, respectively.
Tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed are recorded at fair value as of the Acquisition Date.
The Company has not finalized the fair value determinations of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed and expects to finalize as soon as practicable, but not later than one-year from the Acquisition Date.
The key assumptions used in the calculation of the discounted cash flows include projected revenue, gross margin, operating expenses, discount rate and customer attrition.
Customer relationships represent the estimated fair value of the underlying relationships and agreements with KMG’s customers and are being amortized on an accelerated basis in order for the expense to most accurately match the periods of highest cash flows attributable to the identified relationships.
Trade names represents the estimated fair value of the brand and name recognition associated with the marketing of KMG’s product offerings and are being amortized on a straight-line basis, except for the Flowchem trade name, which KMG acquired when it acquired Flowchem Holdings LLC in 2017, and which we believe has an indefinite life.
The excess of consideration transferred over the fair value of net assets acquired was recorded as goodwill, and is not deductible for income tax purposes.
KMG’s results of operations have been included in our unaudited Consolidated Statements of Income (Loss) and Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income from the Acquisition Date.
KMG’s net loss since the Acquisition Date was $14,174, which includes $25,661 of acquisition related costs, net of tax, as well as additional amortization and depreciation expense associated with recording KMG’s net assets at fair value.
The historical financial information has been adjusted by applying the Company’s accounting policies and giving effect to the pro forma adjustments, which consist of (i) amortization expense associated with identified intangible assets; (ii) depreciation of fixed asset step-up; (iii) accretion of inventory step-up value; (iv) the elimination of interest expense on pre-acquisition KMG debt and replacement of interest expense related to the acquisition-related financing; (v) transaction-related costs; (vi) accelerated share-based compensation expense; (vii) retention and severance expense incurred as a direct result of the acquisition; and (viii) an adjustment to tax-effect the aforementioned unaudited pro forma adjustments using an estimated weighted-average effective income tax rate of each entity and the jurisdictions to which the above adjustments relate.
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received from the sale of an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date.
The following table presents financial instruments, other than long-term debt, that we measured at fair value on a recurring basis at December 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018.
The long-term investment was adjusted to $1,242 in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 to reflect its fair value as of December 31, 2018.
The fair value of our derivative instruments is estimated using standard valuation models and market-based observable inputs over the contractual term.
We consider the risk of nonperformance, including counterparty credit risk, in the calculation of the fair value of derivative financial instruments.
Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested for impairment annually in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year or more frequently if indicators of potential impairment exist, using a fair-value-based approach.
Proceeds of the loans borrowed under the Term Loan Facility on the Acquisition Date were used to fund, in part, the Acquisition and certain of KMG’s existing indebtedness, and to pay related fees and expenses.
The Credit Facilities are guaranteed by each of the Company’s wholly owned domestic subsidiaries, including KMG and its subsidiaries, and are secured by substantially all assets of the Company and of each subsidiary guarantor, in each case subject to certain exceptions.
In addition, the Company is required to prepay outstanding loans under the Term Loan Facility, subject to certain exceptions, with up to 50% of the Company’s annual excess cash flow, as defined under the Credit Agreement, and 100% of the net cash proceeds of certain recovery events and non-ordinary course asset sales.
The Revolving Credit Facility requires that the Company maintain a maximum first lien secured net leverage ratio, as defined in the Credit Agreement, of 4.00 to 1.00 as of the last day of each fiscal quarter if any revolving loans are outstanding, commencing with the first full fiscal quarter after the Acquisition Date.
Subsequent to the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we entered into a floating-to-fixed interest rate swap agreement to hedge the variability in our LIBOR-based interest payments on approximately 70% of our Term Loan Facility balance.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2018, the change in the fair value of these forward contracts in the net investment hedge relationship was $3,241, which was recorded in foreign currency translation adjustments within other comprehensive income.
Refer to Note 17 of “Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements” in Item 8 of Part II of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018, for additional information regarding commitments and contingencies.
We have adopted ASU 2017-07 this quarter and pursuant to the adoption, net service costs are recorded as fringe benefit expense under cost of goods sold and operating expenses, and all other costs are recorded in the Other income (expense), net in our Consolidated Statements of Income (Loss).
For more information regarding these plans, refer to Note 17 of “Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements” included in Item 8 of Part II of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018.
The before tax amount reclassified from AOCI to net income during the three months ended December 31, 2017, related to cash flow hedges, were recorded as interest expense on our Consolidated Statement of Income (Loss).
We record share-based compensation expense for all share-based awards, including stock option grants, and restricted stock, restricted stock unit and performance share unit ("PSU") awards, and employee stock purchase plan purchases.
We calculate share-based compensation expense using the straight-line approach based on awards ultimately expected to vest, which requires the use of an estimated forfeiture rate.
We use the Black-Scholes option-pricing model to estimate the grant date fair value of our stock options and employee stock purchase plan purchases.
This model requires the input of highly subjective assumptions, including the price volatility of the underlying stock, the expected term of our stock options, expected dividend yield and the risk-free interest rate.
As of December 2017, the provisions of stock option grants and restricted stock unit awards, except in certain circumstances including termination for cause, once an employee meets the retirement eligibility requirements, any remaining unvested share-based awards will continue to vest regardless of termination of service.
For additional information regarding the estimation of fair value, refer to Note 12 of "Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements" included in Item 8 of Part II of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018.
Revenue from external customers and segment adjusted EBITDA shown for Performance Materials for the quarter ended December 31, 2017 includes Cabot Microelectronics’ legacy QED business and an immaterial business that was sold in March 2018.
The adjustments to segment EBITDA for the three months ended December 31, 2018 represent addbacks of KMG acquisition and integration related expenses, and a charge for the write-up of inventory acquired from KMG to fair value, for inventory sold in the period.
In addition, there are risks that the Chinese government may, among other things, require the use of local suppliers, compel companies that do business in China to partner with local companies to conduct business, and, provide incentives to government-backed local customers to buy from local suppliers rather than companies like ours, all of which could adversely impact our business, including our results of operations.


item2.txt
Revenue for our first quarter of fiscal 2019 was $221.8 million, which represented an increase of 58.4% from the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
Results benefited from the acquisition of KMG, which added $62.0 million to revenue in the approximately six weeks of the quarter post-closing, as well as a 10% increase in CMP slurries and 30% increase in CMP pads compared to the same quarter last year.
Net income was $13.4 million in our first quarter of fiscal 2019, which was $16.5 million higher than the net loss reported in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, which included a $32.9 million charge related to the Tax Act. Acquisition-related expenses and a charge for the fair value write-up of acquired inventory sold negatively impacted net income this quarter by $32.5 million.
Adjusted EBITDA was $76.9 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
This represents an increase of $33.5 million, or a 77% increase from the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
The increase was primarily due to the absence of the adverse impact of the Tax Act in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, the inclusion of KMG results, and higher revenue and profitability within the legacy businesses.
Revenue was $221.8 million for the three months ended December 31, 2018, which represented a 58.4%, or $81.8 million increase from the three months ended December 31, 2017.
The increase in revenue was primarily due to the Acquisition adding $62.0 million in revenue for the approximately six weeks post-closing in the quarter.
Total cost of sales was $122.4 million for the three months ended December 31, 2018, which represented an increase of 85.6%, or $56.5 million, from the three months ended December 31, 2017.
The increase in cost of sales was primarily due to the Acquisition, adding approximately $52.2 million in cost of sales.
The increase was primarily due to $27.3 million of acquisition and integration related costs, $6.5 million of amortization expense related to the Acquisition, and the addition of $5.1 million in incremental KMG-related costs associated with the approximately six-week post Acquisition.
Net income was $13.4 million for the three months ended December 31, 2018, which represented an increase of 536.0%, or $16.5 million, from the net loss reported in the three months ended December 31, 2017.
The increase was primarily due to the absence of the adverse impact of the Tax Act in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, the addition of the KMG business for the approximately six weeks post-closing in the quarter, and higher revenue and profitability within our legacy business.
The $57.3 million increase in Electronic Materials revenue was driven by the addition of $39.8 million related to KMG’s electronic chemicals business since the Acquisition.
The remaining $17.5 million increase was driven by strong organic demand for the Company’s legacy CMP slurries and polishing pads product lines, which increased 10% and 30%, respectively, primarily on higher sales volume.
Electronic Materials adjusted EBITDA increased from the prior year driven by the addition of approximately six-weeks of KMG’s electronic chemicals results, as well as stronger organic profitability, driven by the leverage achieved on higher sales volume.
The $24.5 million increase in Performance Materials revenue was primarily driven by the addition of $22.2 million related to KMG’s performance materials business for the approximately six-week period post-Acquisition.
The decrease in operating cash flows was primarily due to $24.7 million spent on acquisition and integration costs, net of tax, and an increase in working capital associated with operating a larger business.


part2.txt
Our success depends on our ability to keep pace with technological changes and advances in the industries in which we operate, particularly the semiconductor industry, and to adapt, improve and customize our products in response to evolving customer needs and industry trends.
Our customers continually pursue lower cost of ownership and higher quality and performance of materials consumed in their manufacturing processes, including CMP slurries and pads and electronic chemicals, as a means to reduce costs, increase the yield in their manufacturing facilities, and achieve desired performance of the IC devices they produce.
Potential technology developments in the semiconductor industry, as well as our customers' efforts to reduce consumption of CMP consumables, including through use of smaller quantities, could render our products less important to the IC device manufacturing process.
Any deferral or significant reduction in the quantity or price of products sold to these principal customers could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Our supply chain includes the raw materials we use to manufacture our products, our production operations and the means by which we deliver our products to our customers.
Our business could be adversely affected by any problem or interruption in the supply of the key raw materials we use in our products, including raw materials that do not meet the stringent quality and consistency requirements of our customers, any problem or interruption that may occur during production or delivery of our products, such as weather-related problems, natural disasters, or geopolitical, trade or labor-related issues, or any difficulty in producing sufficient quantities of our products to meet growing demand from our customers.
In particular, severe weather conditions have the potential to adversely affect our operations, damage facilities and increase our costs, and those conditions may also have an indirect effect on our operations by disrupting services provided by service companies or suppliers with whom we have a business relationship.
Future labor contracts may be on terms that result in higher labor costs to us, which also could adversely affect our results of operations.
As business volume between China and the rest of the world continues to grow, there is risk that geopolitical, regulatory, trade and political matters could adversely affect business for companies like ours based on the complex relationships among China, the United States, and other countries in the Asia Pacific region, which could have a material adverse impact on our business.
In addition, there are risks that the Chinese government may, among other things, require the use of local suppliers, compel companies that do business in China to partner with local companies to conduct business, and, provide incentives to government-backed local customers to buy from local suppliers rather than companies like ours, all of which could adversely impact our business, including our results of operations.
While such changes in laws, regulations and conditions have not had a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition to date, we cannot assure you as to the future effect of any such changes.
The United States Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) and other federal and state agencies in the United States, as well as comparable agencies in other countries where we have facilities or sell our products, have the authority to promulgate regulations that could have a material adverse impact on our operations.
These EHS laws and regulations may require permits for certain types of operations, require the installation of expensive pollution control equipment, place restrictions upon operations or impose substantial liability for pollution and other EHS concerns resulting from our operations.
Compliance with EHS laws and regulations has resulted in ongoing costs for us and could restrict our ability to modify or expand our facilities, continue production, require us to install costly pollution control equipment, or incur significant other expenses, including remediation costs.
Governmental regulatory authorities have required, and may require in the future, that certain scientific testing and data production be provided on our products.
Recent changes to the Toxic Substances Control Act (“TSCA”) could result in increased regulation and required testing of chemicals we manufacture and could increase the costs of compliance for our operations.
Our products could also be subject to other future regulatory action that may result in restricting or completely banning their use which could have an adverse effect on our performance and results of operations.
Changes in regulatory, legislative and industry requirements, or changes driven by supply-chain pressures, may shift current customers away from products using penta or certain of our other products and toward alternative products that are believed to have fewer environmental effects.
The EPA, foreign and state regulators, local governments, private environmental advocacy organizations and a number of large industrial companies have proposed or adopted policies designed to decrease the use of a variety of chemicals, including penta and others included in certain of our products.
Our ability to anticipate changes in regulatory, legislative, and industry requirements, or changes driven by supply-chain pressures, affects our ability to remain competitive.
New privacy security laws and regulations, including the United Kingdom's Data Protection Act 2018 and the European Union General Data Protection Regulation 2016 that became effective May 2018, among others, pose increasingly complex compliance challenges, which may increase compliance costs, and any failure to comply with data privacy laws and regulations could result in significant penalties.
To the extent that these interest rates increase, our interest expense will increase, which could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows.


