fls.txt



item1.txt
Results for reporting periods beginning on or after July 1, 2019 are presented under ASC 842, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with the historic accounting under ASC 840.
The Company elected the package of practical expedients that allowed the Company not to reassess (i) whether any expired or existing contracts contain leases; (ii) the lease classification for any expired or existing leases; and (iii) initial direct lease costs for existing leases.
In June 2016, the FASB released ASU 2016-13, “Financial Instruments – Credit Losses.” The amendment revises the impairment model to utilize an expected loss methodology in place of the currently used incurred loss methodology, which will result in more timely recognition of losses on financial instruments, including but not limited to, available for sale debt securities and accounts receivable.
In November 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-18, "Collaborative Arrangements (Topic 808).” The amendment clarifies that certain transactions between participants in a collaborative arrangement should be accounted for under Topic 606 when the counterparty is a customer for a good or service that is a distinct unit of account.
If already adopted, the amendments of ASU 2016-01 and ASU 2016-13 are effective starting in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021.
The Company’s options, RSU, and market-based PRSU awards typically vest over a period of three years.
The Company also has an employee stock purchase plan that allows employees to purchase its Common Stock at a discount through payroll deductions.
The Company recorded an income tax expense of $58.9 million for the three months ended September 29, 2019, which yielded an effective tax rate of approximately 11.2%.
As of September 29, 2019, no significant adjustments have been proposed by the IRS.
The Company is unable to make a reasonable estimate as to when cash settlements, if any, with the IRS will occur.
The Company is in various stages of examinations in connection with all of its tax audits worldwide, and it is difficult to determine when these examinations will be settled.
The change in unrecognized tax benefits may range up to $9.0 million.
Basic net income per share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period.
Refer to Note 12 - Long-term Debt and Other Borrowings for additional information regarding the Company’s convertible notes.
The Company maintains an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities.
Investments classified as trading securities are recorded at fair value based upon quoted market prices.


item2.txt
Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof and are based on information currently and reasonably known to us.
Lam Research Corporation is a global supplier of innovative wafer fabrication equipment and services to the semiconductor industry.
We have built a strong global presence with core competencies in areas like nanoscale applications enablement, chemistry, plasma and fluidics, advanced systems engineering and a broad range of operational disciplines.
Our products and services are designed to help our customers build smaller, faster, and better performing devices that are used in a variety of electronic products, including mobile phones, personal computers, servers, wearables, automotive vehicles, and data storage devices.
Our customer base includes leading semiconductor memory, foundry, and integrated device manufacturers that make products such as non-volatile memory, DRAM, and logic devices.


item3.txt



item4.txt
We maintain disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over final reporting that are designed to comply with Rule 13a-15 of the Exchange Act.


part2.txt
We accrue for a liability when it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated.
The semiconductor capital equipment industry has historically been characterized by rapid changes in demand.
We continuously reassess our strategic resource allocation choices in response to the changing business environment.
Especially during transitional periods, resource allocation decisions can have a significant impact on our future performance, particularly if we have not accurately anticipated industry changes.
Our revolving credit facility also includes an option to increase the amount up to an additional $600.0 million, for a potential total commitment of $1.85 billion.
In addition, we have entered, and in the future may enter, into derivative instrument arrangements to hedge against the variability of cash flows due to changes in the benchmark interest rate of fixed rate debt.
•impairing our ability to obtain additional financing in the future.


