fls.txt



item1.txt
In November 2015, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued ASU 2015-17, “Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes.” This ASU amends existing guidance to require that deferred income tax assets and liabilities be classified as non-current in a classified balance sheet, and eliminates the prior guidance which required an entity to separate deferred tax assets and liabilities into a current amount and a non-current amount in a classified balance sheet.
The implementation resulted in a net reduction of prepaid expense and other current assets of $49.7 million, accrued expense and other current liabilities of $5.3 million, and other long-term liabilities of $39.4 million; and an increase in other assets of $5.0 million in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet, and had no impact on cash provided by or used in operations for any period presented.
•the cash paid to satisfy the statutory income tax withholding obligations shall be classified as a financing activity in the statement of cash flows.
In May 2014, the FASB released Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2014-9, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers,” to supersede nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under GAAP.
The core principle of the standard is to recognize revenues when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services.
The Company is required to adopt this standard starting in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 and does not anticipate that implementation will have a material impact on its Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
In January 2016, the FASB released ASU 2016-2, “Leases.” The amendment requires an entity to recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities on its balance sheet and disclose key information about leasing arrangements.
Lessees and lessors are required to disclose qualitative and quantitative information about leasing arrangements to enable a user of the financial statements to assess the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
In June 2016, the FASB released ASU 2016-13, “Financial Instruments – Credit Losses.” The amendment revises the impairment model to utilize an expected loss methodology in place of the currently used incurred loss methodology, which will result in more timely recognition of losses on financial instruments, including but not limited to, available for sale debt securities and accounts receivable.
In October 2016, the FASB released ASU 2016-16, “Income Tax – Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other than Inventory.” This standard update improves the accounting for the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory.
The Company’s options, RSU, and market-based PRSU awards typically vest over a period of three years.
The Company also has an employee stock purchase plan that allows employees to purchase its Common Stock at a discount through payroll deductions.
In the first quarter of fiscal year 2018, the Company adopted ASU 2016-9, “Compensation – Stock Compensation,” as discussed further in Note 2.
The 1999 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as amended and restated (the “1999 ESPP”), allows employees to designate a portion of their base compensation to be withheld through payroll deductions and used to purchase Common Stock at a purchase price per share equal to the lower of 85% of the fair market value of Common Stock on the first or last day of the applicable purchase period.
Typically, each offering period lasts up to twelve months and comprises two interim purchase dates.
As the Company has a fiscal year ending the last Sunday in June, it is subject to transitional tax rate rules.


item2.txt
Lam Research is a global supplier of innovative wafer fabrication equipment and services to the semiconductor industry.
We have built a strong global presence with core competencies in areas like nanoscale applications enablement, chemistry, plasma and fluidics, advanced systems engineering and a broad range of operational disciplines.
Our products and services are designed to help our customers build smaller, faster, and better performing devices that are used in a variety of electronic products, including mobile phones, personal computers, servers, wearables, automotive devices, storage devices, and networking equipment.
Fabricating these devices requires highly sophisticated process technologies to integrate an increasing array of new materials with precise control at the atomic scale.
Along with meeting technical requirements, wafer processing equipment must deliver high productivity and be cost-effective.


item3.txt



item4.txt
We maintain disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over final reporting that are designed to comply with Rule 13a-15 of the Exchange Act.


part2.txt
We accrue for a liability when it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated.
Significant judgment is required in both the determination of probability and the determination as to whether a loss is reasonably estimable.
The semiconductor capital equipment industry has historically been characterized by rapid changes in demand.
The industry environment has moved toward being more characterized by variability across segments and customers accentuated by consolidation within the industry.
Especially during transitional periods, resource allocation decisions can have a significant impact on our future performance, particularly if we have not accurately anticipated industry changes.
Additionally, we have $1.25 billion available to us in revolving credit arrangements, with an option for us to request an increase in the facility of up to an additional $600 million, for a potential total commitment of $1.85 billion.
In addition, we have entered, and in the future may enter, into derivative instrument arrangements to hedge against the variability of cash flows due to changes in the benchmark interest rate of fixed rate debt.


