The accompanying financial information should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto contained in Teradyne’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on March 1, 2018, for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Teradyne adopted Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” (“ASC 606”) on January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method for all contracts not completed as of the date of adoption.
In order to determine the appropriate timing for revenue recognition, Teradyne first determines if the transaction meets any of three criteria for over time recognition.
If the transaction meets the criteria for over time recognition, Teradyne recognizes revenue as the good or service is delivered.
For transactions that do not meet the criteria for over time recognition, Teradyne will recognize revenue at a point in time based on an assessment of the five criteria for transfer of control.
For the three and six months ended July 1, 2018, Teradyne also recognized $3.6 million and $7.9 million, respectively, in revenue on leases of Teradyne systems, which are accounted for outside of ASC 606.
Customers have the option to purchase an extended warranty, which extends the warranty period for systems and robots beyond the one-year standard warranty.
The extended warranty is purchased in the same transaction as the system or robot purchase and is classified as a separate performance obligation, which meets the criteria for over time recognition.
The relative standalone selling price of the extended warranty is recognized ratably over the course of the extended warranty based on months completed.
Training and applications support included in system orders are valued based on their standalone selling price and all training and applications support is recognized over time as the customer receives and consumes the benefit associated with each.
The amount of revenue recognized during the three and six months ended July 1, 2018 that was included within the deferred revenue and customer advances balance at January 1, 2018 was $24.7 million and $46.5 million, respectively, and primarily relates to extended warranties, training, application support, and PCS.
Customers typically pay for these services net 30 to 60 days from the date that transfer of control of the associated system or product occurs.The total purchase price for MiR was approximately $197 million, which included cash paid of approximately $146 million and $51 million in fair value of contingent consideration payable upon achievement of revenue and earnings targets through 2020.
In order to be distinct, the product or service must perform either on its own or with readily available resources and must be separate within the context of the contract.
In order to determine the appropriate timing for revenue recognition, we first determine if the transaction meets any of three criteria for over time recognition.
For transactions that do not meet the criteria for over time recognition, we will recognize revenue at a point in time based on an assessment of the five criteria for transfer of control.
This guidance requires the service cost component of net benefit costs to be reported in the same line item in the consolidated statement of operations as other employee compensation costs.
The non-service components of net benefit costs such as interest cost, expected return on assets, amortization of prior service cost, and actuarial gains or losses, are required to be reported separately outside of income or loss from operations.