The accompanying financial information should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto contained in Teradyne’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on March 1, 2019, for the year ended December 31, 2018.
Under this method of adoption, the comparative information in the consolidated financial statements has not been revised and continues to be reported under the previously applicable lease accounting guidance (ASC 840).
The adoption of ASC 842 did not have a material impact on beginning retained earnings, the consolidated statement of operations, cash flows, or earnings per share.
Teradyne determines if an arrangement is a lease at inception of the contract, which is the date on which the terms of the contract are agreed to and the agreement creates enforceable rights and obligations.
Teradyne determines if the lease is operating or finance at the lease commencement date based upon the terms of the lease and the nature of the asset.
The lease term used to calculate the lease liability includes options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that the option will be exercised.
Variable payments that do not depend on an index are not included in the lease liability and are recognized as they are incurred.
The ROU asset is initially measured as the amount of lease liability, adjusted for any initial lease costs, prepaid lease payments, and reduced by any lease incentives.
On January 30, 2019, Teradyne acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of Lemsys SA (“Lemsys”) for a total purchase price of approximately $9.1 million.
As of the acquisition date, Teradyne’s preliminary purchase price allocation was goodwill of $1.2 million, which is not deductible for tax purposes, acquired intangible assets of $5.5 million with an average estimated useful life of 4.9 years, and $2.4 million of net tangible assets.
The contingent consideration is payable in Euros upon the achievement of certain thresholds and targets for revenue and earnings before interest and taxes for periods from January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2018; January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2019; and January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2020.
The allocation of the total purchase price to MiR’s net tangible liabilities and identifiable intangible assets was based on their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date.
As of the acquisition date, Teradyne’s purchase price allocation was goodwill of $14.4 million which is deductible for tax purposes, acquired intangible assets of $12.3 million with an average estimated useful life of 7.7 years, and $1.0 million of net tangible assets.See also Part II, Item 1A of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and Part I, Item 1A “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
The total purchase price was approximately $198 million, which included cash paid of approximately $145 million and $53 million in fair value of contingent consideration payable upon achievement of certain thresholds and targets for revenue and earnings before interest and taxes through 2020.
On January 30, 2019, we acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of Lemsys SA (“Lemsys”) for a total purchase price of approximately $9.1 million.
We determine if an arrangement is a lease at inception of the contract, which is the date on which the terms of the contract are agreed to and the agreement creates enforceable rights and obligations.
We determine if the lease is operating or finance at the lease commencement date based upon the terms of the lease and the nature of the asset.