ITEM 3. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 



EFFECT OF FOREIGN CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES AND EXCHANGE RATE RISK MANAGEMENT 



We conduct business operations outside of the United States through our foreign operations. Some of our foreign operations maintain their accounting records in their local currencies. Consequently, period to period comparability of results of operations is affected by fluctuations in exchange rates. The primary currencies to which we have exposure are the Korean won, Japanese yen, and the New Taiwan dollar. Approximately 26% of our revenue is transacted in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. However, we also incur expenses in foreign countries that are transacted in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, which provides a natural hedge and mitigates the exposure on the Consolidated Statements of Income. We periodically enter into forward contracts in an effort to manage foreign currency exchange exposure on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. However, we are unlikely to be able to hedge these exposures completely. We do not enter into forward contracts or other derivative instruments for speculative or trading purposes. 



Fluctuations of the won, yen, and New Taiwan dollar have not had a material impact on our Consolidated Statements of Income for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017; however, fluctuations of the won and yen during such time have had a significant impact on other comprehensive income on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. During the nine months ended June 30, 2018, we recorded $2.3 million in foreign currency translation gains, net of tax, that are included in other comprehensive income. These gains and losses primarily relate to changes in the U.S. dollar value of assets and liabilities denominated in local currencies when these asset and liability amounts are translated at month-end exchange rates. 



MARKET RISK AND SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS RELATED TO FOREIGN EXCHANGE RATE RISK 



We have performed a sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 10% additional adverse movement in foreign exchange rates. As of June 30, 2018, the analysis demonstrated that such market movements would not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows over a one-year period. Actual gains and losses in the future may differ materially from this analysis based on changes in the timing and amount of foreign currency rate movements and our actual exposures. 



MARKET RISK RELATED TO INVESTMENTS IN AUCTION RATE SECURITIES 



At June 30, 2018, we owned one auction rate security (ARS) with a total estimated fair and par value $4.0 million, which was classified as other long-term assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Beginning in 2008, general uncertainties in the global credit markets significantly reduced liquidity in the ARS market, and this illiquidity continues. For more information on our ARS, see Note 6 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of this Report on Form 10-Q. 





INDEX  



ITEM 3. DEFAULTS UPON SENIOR SECURITIES 



Not applicable. 



