fls.txt
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, which relate to future, not past, events and are subject to risks and uncertainties.
These or other uncertainties may cause the Company’s actual future results to be materially different than those expressed in any forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
Under this transition method, the Company’s results in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income for the three months ended March 31, 2018 are presented under Topic 606, while the comparative results for the three months ended March 31, 2017 were not retrospectively adjusted as such results were recognized in accordance with the revenue recognition policy discussed under Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in Note 1 of the Company’s 2017 Annual Report.
The Company has begun evaluating ASU 2016‑02, including the review of the necessary changes to our existing processes and controls and the implementation of a new system that will facilitate the adoption of this new standard, in order to determine its impact on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
Effective January 1, 2018, the Company adopted Topic 606 using the modified retrospective transition method, resulting in accounting policy changes surrounding revenue recognition which replace certain related policies discussed under Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates (in Item 7) and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (in Note 1) of the Company’s 2017 Annual Report.
The adoption of Topic 606 did not have a material impact on the Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements.
The following is a summary of the Company’s revenue recognition and related accounting policies and disclosures resulting from the adoption of Topic 606.
Less than 5% of our net sales are recognized over time, as the associated contracts relate to the sale of goods with no alternative use as they are only sold to a single customer and whose underlying contract terms provide the Company with an enforceable right to payment, including a reasonable profit margin, for performance completed to date, in the event of customer termination.
Warranty liabilities and related warranty expense have not been and were not significant in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
As the Company’s performance obligations are typically less than one year, these amounts are generally recorded as current in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets within Other current assets or Other accrued expenses as of March 31, 2018.
Contract assets and contract liabilities recorded in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets were not significant both at the date of adoption and as of March 31, 2018.
The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those for the Company as a whole and are described in Note 1 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in the Company’s 2017 Annual Report.
The Company evaluates the performance of business units on, among other things, profit or loss from operations before interest, headquarters’ expense allocations, stock-based compensation expense, income taxes, amortization related to certain intangible assets and nonrecurring gains and losses.
On January 24, 2017, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program under which the Company could purchase up to $1,000.0 of the Company’s Common Stock during the two-year period ending January 24, 2019 in accordance with the requirements of Rule 10b-18 of the Exchange Act (the “2017 Stock Repurchase Program”).
During the three months ended March 31, 2018, the Company repurchased 4.2 million shares of its common stock for $382.0.
On April 24, 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized a new stock repurchase program under which the Company may purchase up to $2,000.0 of the Company’s Common Stock during the three-year period ending April 24, 2021 in accordance with the requirements of Rule 10b-18 of the Exchange Act (the “2018 Stock Repurchase Program”).
The price and timing of any future purchases under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program will depend on factors such as levels of cash generation from operations, the volume of stock option exercises by employees, cash requirements for acquisitions, dividends, economic and market conditions and stock price.
On April 24, 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors approved an increase to its quarterly dividend rate from $0.19 to $0.23 per share effective with dividends declared in the second quarter of 2018.
The Company believes that its operations are currently in substantial compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations and that the costs of continuing compliance will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
In May 2017, the Company adopted the 2017 Stock Purchase and Option Plan for Key Employees of Amphenol and Subsidiaries (the “2017 Employee Option Plan”).
A committee of the Company’s Board of Directors has been authorized to grant stock options pursuant to the 2017 Employee Option Plan.
The number of shares of the Company’s Class A Common Stock (“Common Stock”) reserved for issuance under the 2017 Employee Option Plan is 30,000,000 shares.
In 2004, the Company adopted the 2004 Stock Option Plan for Directors of Amphenol Corporation (the “2004 Directors Option Plan”).
The grant-date fair value of each share grant is determined based on the closing share price of the Company’s Common Stock on the date of the grant.
Grants under the 2012 Directors Restricted Stock Plan entitle the holder to receive shares of the Company’s Common Stock without payment.
As a result of the adoption of ASU 2017‑07, the Company records service costs in the same line item as the respective employee compensation costs and within operating income, while all other pension-related costs including interest cost, expected return on plan assets, amortization of prior service cost and amortization of net actuarial losses are reported separately within Other income, net in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income.
In January 2018, the Company made a voluntary cash contribution of approximately $81.0 to fully fund its U.S. Plans, and estimates that, based on current actuarial calculations, cash contributions to the Plans will aggregate approximately $90.0 in 2018.
This voluntary cash contribution made in the first quarter of 2018 is reflected as cash used in operating activities within Net change in other long-term assets and liabilities in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flow.
The Company offers various defined contribution plans for certain U.S. and foreign employees.
During the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, the Company provided matching contributions to the U.S. defined contribution plans of approximately $2.3 and $1.7, respectively.
In the past twelve months, the Company has completed several acquisitions, including one acquisition in the first quarter of 2018, and is in the process of completing its analyses of the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
As of March 31, 2018, amortization expense relating to the Company’s current intangible assets estimated for the remainder of 2018 is approximately $35.3 and for each of the next five fiscal years is approximately $43.2 in 2019, $37.4 in 2020, $32.4 in 2021, $24.7 in 2022 and $22.2 in 2023.
The Company may, at its option, redeem some or all of any series of senior notes at any time subject to certain terms and conditions, which include paying 100% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of repurchase and, with certain exceptions, a make-whole premium.
The 2.55% Senior Notes are due in January 2019 and are therefore recorded, net of the related unamortized discount and debt issuance costs, within Current portion of long-term debt in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as of March 31, 2018.
The Company does not have any significant financial or non-financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis.
Net sales in the Interconnect Products and Assemblies segment (approximately 95% of net sales) in the first quarter of 2018 increased 21% in U.S. dollars, 17% in constant currencies and 13% organically, compared to the first quarter of 2017.
(1)    Net sales growth in U.S. dollars is calculated based on Net sales as reported in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income and Note 5 of the accompanying financial statements.
(2)    Foreign currency translation impact, a non-GAAP measure, represents the impact on net sales resulting from foreign currency exchange rate changes in the current year period(s) compared to the same period(s) in the prior year.
(4)    Acquisition impact, a non-GAAP measure, represents the impact on net sales resulting from acquisitions closed since the beginning of the prior calendar year, which were not included in the Company’s results as of the comparable prior year periods and which do not reflect the underlying growth of the Company on a comparative basis.
The increase is primarily due to higher average interest rates associated with the Company’s commercial paper borrowings as well as the senior note issuances in April 2017, along with higher average debt levels used to fund the Company’s dividend and stock buyback programs.
For the first quarter of 2018, the excess tax benefits resulting from stock option exercise activity had the impact of lowering the effective tax rate by approximately 110 basis points and increasing earnings per share by $0.01.
For the first quarter of 2017, the excess tax benefits resulting from stock option exercise activity had the impact of lowering the effective tax rate by approximately 270 basis points and increasing earnings per share by $0.02.
Therefore, the Company recorded a provisional charge for the foreign and U.S. state and local tax cost related to changes in the Company’s permanent reinvestment assertion with regards to accumulated unremitted earnings prior to 2018 from certain foreign subsidiaries, due to our intention to repatriate such foreign earnings over time.
As a result of this change, in the first quarter of 2018, the Company has repatriated a significant portion of its foreign cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments.
The Tax Act also resulted in a Transition Tax on the deemed repatriation of the accumulated unremitted earnings and profits of foreign subsidiaries, which we will pay, net of applicable tax credits and deductions, in annual installments until 2025, as permitted under the Tax Act. The Company does not believe that these future tax payments will have a significant impact on its liquidity or capital resources.
In the first three months of 2018, the components of working capital as presented on the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flow increased $133.3, excluding the impact of acquisitions and foreign currency translation, primarily due to a decrease in accounts payable and accrued liabilities of $99.3 and $65.5, respectively, and an increase in inventories of $55.8, partially offset by a decrease in accounts receivable of $118.3.
In the first three months of 2017, the components of working capital as presented on the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flow increased $66.8, excluding the impact of acquisitions and foreign currency translation, primarily due to a decrease in accrued expenses of $66.0 and increases in inventories and other current assets of $23.9 and $21.0, respectively, partially offset by a decrease in accounts receivable of $48.6.
Accounts receivable decreased $82.8 to $1,515.8 primarily due to lower sales in the first quarter of 2018 relative to the fourth quarter of 2017, which were partially offset by the effect of translation from exchange rate changes at March 31, 2018 compared to December 31, 2017 (“Translation”).
Accrued pension and postretirement benefit obligations decreased $81.5 to $190.5 primarily due to the Company’s voluntary cash contribution of approximately $81.0 in January 2018 to fully fund the Company’s U.S. Plans.
The Company estimates that, based on current actuarial calculations and including the first quarter contribution to its U.S. Plans, cash contributions to the Plans will aggregate approximately $90.0 in 2018.
For the first quarter of 2018, cash used in financing activities was driven primarily by repurchases of the Company’s common stock of $382.0, net repayments of long-term debt of $304.8, dividend payments of $58.1 and distributions to shareholders of noncontrolling interests of $3.9, partially offset by cash proceeds from the exercise of stock options of $20.6.
For the first quarter of 2017, cash used in financing activities was driven primarily by repurchases of the Company’s common stock of $249.2, dividend payments of $49.3, and distributions to shareholders of noncontrolling interests of $4.2, partially offset by increased net borrowings of $225.3 and cash proceeds from the exercise of stock options of $23.7.
The Company’s debt financing includes the use of a commercial paper program, revolving credit facility and senior notes as part of its overall cash management strategy.
The 2.55% Senior Notes are due in January 2019 and are therefore recorded, net of the related unamortized discount and debt issuance costs, within Current portion of long-term debt in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as of March 31, 2018.
Refer to Note 13 of the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information related to the Company’s debt.
On January 24, 2017, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program under which the Company could purchase up to $1,000.0 of the Company’s Common Stock during the two-year period ending January 24, 2019 in accordance with the requirements of Rule 10b-18 of the Exchange Act (the “2017 Stock Repurchase Program”).
During the three months ended March 31, 2018, the Company repurchased 4.2 million shares of its common stock for $382.0.
On April 24, 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized a new stock repurchase program under which the Company may purchase up to $2,000.0 of the Company’s Common Stock during the three-year period ending April 24, 2021 in accordance with the requirements of Rule 10b-18 of the Exchange Act (the “2018 Stock Repurchase Program”).
The price and timing of any future purchases under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program will depend on factors such as levels of cash generation from operations, the volume of stock option exercises by employees, cash requirements for acquisitions, dividends, economic and market conditions and stock price.
On April 24, 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors approved an increase to its quarterly dividend rate from $0.19 to $0.23 per share effective with dividends declared in the second quarter of 2018.
The Company’s primary sources of liquidity are internally generated cash flow, the Commercial Paper Program, the Revolving Credit Facility, and its cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments on hand.
The Company believes that its cash, cash equivalents and short-term investment position on hand, ability to generate future cash flow from operations, availability under its credit facilities, and access to capital markets (including the recent issuances of both the 2020 Senior Notes and 2024 Senior Notes in April 2017) provide adequate liquidity to meet its obligations for the next twelve months and the foreseeable future, including the repayment of the $750.0 outstanding principal amount of 2.55% Senior Notes due January 2019 (the “2.55% Notes”).
The Company’s primary ongoing cash requirements will be for operating and capital expenditures, product development activities, repurchases of its Common Stock, funding of pension obligations, dividends, debt service (including the repayment of the 2.55% Notes), and payments associated with the Transition Tax which is payable in annual installments until 2025 and taxes due upon the repatriation of foreign earnings which will be payable upon the repatriation of such earnings.
The Company’s debt service requirements consist primarily of principal and interest on the Senior Notes, the Revolving Credit Facility and the Commercial Paper Program.
The Company believes that its operations are currently in substantial compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations and that the costs of continuing compliance will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
In addition to assessing the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows in accordance with U.S. GAAP, management utilizes certain non-GAAP financial measures defined below as part of its internal reviews for purposes of monitoring, evaluating and forecasting the Company’s financial performance, communicating operating results to the Company’s Board of Directors and assessing related employee compensation measures.
Management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures may be helpful to investors in assessing the Company’s overall financial performance, trends and period-over-period comparative results, in addition to the reasons noted below.
Non-GAAP financial measures related to operating income, operating margin, net income attributable to Amphenol Corporation, effective tax rate and diluted EPS exclude income and expenses that are not directly related to the Company's operating performance during the periods presented.
Items excluded in such non-GAAP financial measures in any period may consist of, without limitation, acquisition-related expenses, refinancing-related costs, and certain discrete tax items including but not limited to (i) the excess tax benefits related to stock-based compensation and (ii) the Tax Act Charge recorded in 2017 and any subsequent adjustments recorded in 2018 related to this charge.
·    Adjusted Diluted EPS is defined as diluted earnings per share (as reported in accordance with U.S. GAAP), excluding income and expenses and their specific tax effects, that are not directly related to the Company's operating performance during the periods presented.
Adjusted Diluted EPS is calculated as Adjusted Net Income attributable to Amphenol Corporation, as defined below, divided by the weighted average outstanding diluted shares as reported in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income.
·    Free Cash Flow is defined as Net cash provided by operating activities (“operating cash flow” - as reported in accordance with U.S. GAAP) less capital expenditures (as reported in accordance with U.S. GAAP), both of which are derived from the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flow.
Effective January 1, 2018, the Company’s policies related to revenue recognition have been updated in accordance with Note 3 of the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 within this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
There has been no material change in the Company’s assessment of its sensitivity to foreign currency exchange rate risk since its presentation set forth in Part II, Item 7A “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” in its 2017 Annual Report.
The Company does not expect changes in interest rates to have a material effect on income or cash flows in 2018, although there can be no assurances that interest rates will not change significantly.
The Company’s management, with the participation of the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, has evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures, pursuant to Rules 13a-15(e) or 15d-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), as of the end of the period covered by this report.
These controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by the Company in reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms, and such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Based on their evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this report.
Beginning January 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) and all of its related subsequent amendments.
Although the new revenue recognition standard did not have a material impact on the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company implemented changes to our processes related to revenue recognition and the related control activities, including the implementation of certain controls over financial reporting necessary for the required disclosures, as well as the implementation of new policies and any necessary changes to existing related policies.


item3.txt
Item 3.
Item 3.


item4.txt
Item 4.
Item 5.


part2.txt
Legal Proceedings  
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds  
Defaults Upon Senior Securities  
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


