 ITEM 1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   



  Richardson Electronics, Ltd.   



  Consolidated Balance Sheets   



  (in thousands, except per share amounts)    







 Richardson Electronics, Ltd.  



 Unaudited Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss)  



 (in thousands, except per share amounts)  







 Richardson Electronics, Ltd.  



 Unaudited Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows  



 (in thousands)  







 Richardson Electronics, Ltd.  



 Unaudited Consolidated Statement of Stockholders’ Equity  



 (in thousands, except per share amounts)  







RICHARDSON ELECTRONICS, LTD.  



 NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  



 1. DESCRIPTION OF THE COMPANY   



 Richardson Electronics, Ltd. is a leading global provider of engineered solutions, power grid and microwave tubes and related consumables; power conversion and RF and microwave components; high value flat panel detector solutions, replacement parts, tubes and service training for diagnostic imaging equipment; and customized display solutions. We serve customers in the alternative energy, healthcare, aviation, broadcast, communications, industrial, marine, medical, military, scientific and semiconductor markets. The Company’s strategy is to provide specialized technical expertise and “engineered solutions” based on our core engineering and manufacturing capabilities. The Company provides solutions and adds value through design-in support, systems integration, prototype design and manufacturing, testing, logistics, and aftermarket technical service and repair through its global infrastructure.  



 Our products include electron tubes and related components, microwave generators, subsystems used in semiconductor manufacturing, and visual technology solutions. These products are used to control, switch or amplify electrical power signals, or are used as display devices in a variety of industrial, commercial, medical, and communication applications.  





 Power and Microwave Technologies Group (“PMT”) combines our core engineered solutions, power grid and microwave tube business with new RF and power technologies. As a manufacturer and authorized distributor, PMT’s strategy is to provide specialized technical expertise and engineered solutions based on our core engineering and manufacturing capabilities. We provide solutions and add value through design-in support, systems integration, prototype design and manufacturing, testing, logistics, and aftermarket technical service and repair—all through our existing global infrastructure. PMT’s focus is on products for power, RF and microwave applications for customers in alternative energy, aviation, broadcast, communications, industrial, marine, medical, military, scientific, and semiconductor markets. PMT focuses on various applications including broadcast transmission, CO2 laser cutting, diagnostic imaging, dielectric and induction heating, high energy transfer, high voltage switching, plasma, power conversion, radar, and radiation oncology. PMT also offers its customers technical services for both microwave and industrial equipment.  



 Canvys provides customized display solutions serving the corporate enterprise, financial, healthcare, industrial, and medical original equipment manufacturers (“OEM”) markets.  



 Healthcare manufactures, refurbishes and distributes high value replacement parts for the healthcare market including hospitals, medical centers, asset management companies, independent service organizations, and multi-vendor service providers. Products include Diagnostic Imaging replacement parts for CT and MRI systems; replacement CT and MRI tubes; CT service training; MRI coils, cold heads, and RF amplifiers; hydrogen thyratrons, klystrons, magnetrons; flat panel detector upgrades; and additional replacement solutions currently under development for the diagnostic imaging service market. Through a combination of newly developed products and partnerships, service offerings, and training programs, we believe we can help our customers improve efficiency and deliver better clinical outcomes while lowering the cost of healthcare delivery.  





 2. BASIS OF PRESENTATION  



 The accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”) for interim financial information and the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X. Accordingly, they do not include all the information and notes required by GAAP for complete financial statements.  



 Our fiscal quarter ends on the Saturday nearest the end of the quarter-ending month. The third quarter of fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017 both contained 13 weeks. The first nine months of fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017 contained 40 and 39 weeks, respectively.  



 In the opinion of management, all adjustments, which are of a normal and recurring nature, necessary for a fair presentation of the results of interim periods have been made. All inter-company transactions and balances have been eliminated. The unaudited consolidated financial statements presented herein include the accounts of our wholly owned subsidiaries. Certain information and note disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations. The results of our operations for the three and nine months ended March 3, 2018, are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the fiscal year ending June 2, 2018.  



 The financial information contained in this report should be read in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 27, 2017, that we filed on July 31, 2017.  





  3. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES  





 At this time, we do not anticipate any material risks or uncertainties related to possible future inventory write-downs. Provisions for obsolete or slow moving inventories are recorded based upon regular analysis of stock rotation privileges, obsolescence, the exiting of certain markets and assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If future demand changes in the industry, or market conditions differ from management’s estimates, additional provisions may be necessary. Inventory reserves were approximately $3.7 million as of March 3, 2018 and $3.5 million as of May 27, 2017.  





 In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2014-09 (“ASU 2014-09”), Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which amends guidance for revenue recognition. ASU 2014-09 is principles based guidance that can be applied to all contracts with customers, enhancing comparability of revenue recognition practices across entities, industries, jurisdictions and capital markets. The core principle of the guidance is that entities should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods and services. The guidance details the steps entities should apply to achieve the core principle. In August 2015, the FASB issued an amendment to defer the effective date for all entities by one year. For public entities, ASU 2014-09 is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within that reporting period. Early adoption is permitted as of annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016. Companies have the option of using either a full or modified retrospective approach in applying this standard. During fiscal 2016 and 2017, the FASB issued four additional updates which further clarify the guidance provided in ASU 2014-09.  



 We are evaluating the impact of the new standard on our financial statements using a three-phase approach (assessment, conversion and implementation). We continue to work through our assessment phase and further evaluation is needed in order to determine whether or not the new revenue recognition standard will have a material impact on our financial statements and related disclosures upon adoption. We have undertaken a detailed analysis of our various contracts with customers and revenue streams. The Company has engaged a third party to assist in evaluating the impact of this new standard on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. We will complete the conversion and implementation phases by the end of fiscal year 2018 in conjunction with future interpretative guidance.  







During the fourth quarter of each fiscal year, our goodwill balances are reviewed for impairment using the first day of our fourth quarter as the measurement date. If after reviewing the totality of events or circumstances, we determine that it is not likely that the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, then we test for impairment through the application of a fair value based test. We estimate the fair value of each of our reporting units based on projected future operating results, market approach, and discounted cash flows. 



 Intangible assets are initially recorded at their fair market values determined on quoted market prices in active markets, if available, or recognized valuation models. Intangible assets that have finite useful lives are amortized over their useful lives either on a straight-line basis or over their projected future cash flows and are tested for impairment when events or changes in circumstances occur that indicate possible impairment.  















  4. GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS  



The carrying value of goodwill was $6.3 million as of March 3, 2018 and May 27, 2017. 



 Goodwill is initially recorded based on the premium paid for acquisitions and is subsequently tested for impairment, using the first day of our fourth quarter as the measurement date. We test goodwill for impairment annually and whenever events or circumstances indicates an impairment may have occurred, such as a significant adverse change in the business climate, loss of key personnel or a decision to sell or dispose of a reporting unit. The goodwill balance in its entirety relates to our IMES reporting unit which is included in our Healthcare segment.  









 (1) Change from prior periods reflect impact of foreign currency translation.  







 The weighted average number of years of amortization expense remaining is 15.9 years.  





 As of March 3, 2018, we had approximately $0.2 million invested in time deposits and certificates of deposit (“CD”) which mature in less than twelve months. The fair value of these investments is equal to the face value of each time deposit and CD.  



 As of May 27, 2017, we had invested in time deposits and certificates of deposit in the amount of $8.2 million. Of this, $6.4 million mature in less than twelve months and $1.8 million mature in greater than twelve months. The fair value of these investments is the face value of each time deposit and CD.  



 We liquidated our investments in equity securities in the third quarter of fiscal 2018. Proceeds from the liquidation were $0.9 million with gross realized gains of $0.2 million for the nine months ended March 3, 2018. Prior to the liquidation of our investment in equity securities, our investments in equity securities were classified as available-for-sale and were carried at their fair value based on quoted market prices. Our investments, which were included in non-current assets, had a carrying amount of $0.6 million as of May 27, 2017. Proceeds from the sale of securities were $0.1 million during the third quarter of fiscal 2017. Prior to liquidating the equity securities, we reinvested proceeds from the sale of securities, and the cost of the equity securities sold was based on a specific identification method. Gross realized gains on those sales were less than $0.1 million during the third quarter of fiscal 2017. Net unrealized holding gains of less than $0.1 million during the third quarter of fiscal 2017 were included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).  





We offer warranties for the limited number of specific products we manufacture. We also provide extended warranties for some products we sell that lengthen the period of coverage specified in the manufacturer’s original warranty. Our warranty terms generally range from one to three years. 





 We estimate the cost to perform under the warranty obligation and recognize this estimated cost at the time of the related product sale. We record expense related to our warranty obligations as cost of sales in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income (loss). Each quarter, we assess actual warranty costs incurred on a product-by-product basis and compare the warranty costs to our estimated warranty obligation. With respect to new products, estimates are based generally on knowledge of the products, the extended warranty period and warranty experience.  



 Warranty reserves are established for costs that are expected to be incurred after the sale and delivery of products under warranty. Warranty reserves are included in accrued liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets. The warranty reserves are determined based on known product failures, historical experience and other available evidence. Warranty reserves were approximately $0.1 million as of March 3, 2018 and May 27, 2017.  



 7. LEASE OBLIGATIONS, OTHER COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES  









 We recorded an income tax provision from continuing operations of $1.1 million and $0.8 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 and the first nine months of fiscal 2017, respectively. The effective income tax rate from continuing operations during the first nine months of fiscal 2018 was a tax provision of 65.0%, as compared to a tax provision of (13.7%) during the first nine months of fiscal 2017. The difference in rate during the first nine months of fiscal 2018, as compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2017, reflects the change in the overall loss realized through the third quarter in each respective period, changes in our geographical distribution of income (loss), the recording of provision to return true-ups of various foreign jurisdictions, the accrual of an uncertain tax position with respect to a German audit and our positions with respect to permanent reinvestment of foreign earnings under ASC 740-30, Income Taxes - Other Considerations or Special Areas (“ASC 740-30”). The 65.0% effective income tax rate differs from the federal statutory rate of 29.2% as a result of our geographical distribution of income (loss), the recording of a valuation allowance against the increase in our U.S. state and federal net deferred tax assets, recognition of an uncertain tax position and preliminary tax assessments with respect to the income tax audit in Germany.  



 On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted new tax legislation, Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Act”). The primary provisions of the Act expected to impact the Company in fiscal 2018 are a reduction to the U.S. corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% and a transition from a worldwide corporate tax system to a territorial tax system. The reduction in the corporate income tax rate requires the Company to remeasure its net deferred tax assets to the new corporate tax rate and the transition to a territorial tax system requires payment of a one-time tax on deemed repatriation of undistributed and previously untaxed non-U.S. earnings. Primarily as a result of those provisions of the Act, the Company recorded a deferred remeasurement impact of approximately $1.6 million, which was fully offset by the valuation allowance movement. Additionally, the estimated deemed earnings repatriation tax, net of available foreign tax credits brought back as part of the deemed repatriation, was $3.5 million. The Company does not anticipate any cash tax payments due to the foreign tax credit carryforwards available to fully offset the provisional deemed repatriation tax.  



 The 21% corporate income tax rate was effective January 1, 2018. Based on the Company’s June 2, 2018 fiscal year end, the U.S. statutory income tax rate for fiscal 2018 will be approximately 29.2%.  



 The tax impact recorded for the Act during the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was provisional as outlined below and may change. The Company completed a preliminary assessment of earnings that could be repatriated based on reinvestment needs of non-U.S. operations and earnings available for repatriation. The estimated withholding tax that would be incurred from the repatriation of those earnings is included in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 provisional income tax expense. The Company continues to analyze the provisions of the Act addressing the net deferred tax asset remeasurement and its calculations, the deemed earnings repatriation, including the determination of undistributed non-U.S. earnings, and evaluate potential Company actions, including repatriating additional non-U.S. earnings and actions that could affect the Company’s fiscal year ended 2018 U.S. taxable income. In addition, the Company continues to monitor potential legislative action and regulatory interpretations of the Act.  





 Based on the effective date of certain provisions, the Company will be subject to additional requirements of the Act beginning in fiscal 2019. Those provisions include a tax on global intangible low-taxed income (GILTI), a tax determined by base erosion tax benefits (BEAT) from certain payments between a U.S. corporation and foreign subsidiaries, a limitation of certain executive compensation, a deduction for foreign derived intangible income (FDII) and interest expense limitations. The Company has not completed its analysis of those provisions and the estimated impact. The Company also has not determined its accounting policy to treat the taxes due on GILTI as a period cost or include in the determination of deferred taxes.  



 In December 2017, the SEC issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 that allows for a measurement period up to one year after the enactment date of the Act to complete the accounting requirements. The Company will complete the adjustments related to the Act within the allowed period.  



 We have historically determined that undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries, to the extent of cash available, will be repatriated to the U.S. Due to the deemed earnings repatriation tax, the outside basis difference for which the historic balance has primarily related has been reduced. The deferred tax liability on the outside basis difference is now primarily withholding tax. Accordingly, we have reduced the deferred tax liability from $5.7 million as of the second quarter of fiscal 2018 to $0.2 million as of the third quarter of fiscal 2018 on foreign earnings of $47.2 million.  



 In the normal course of business, we are subject to examination by taxing authorities throughout the world. Generally, years prior to fiscal 2007 are closed for examination under the statute of limitation for U.S. federal, U.S. state and local or non-U.S. tax jurisdictions. We are currently under examination in Thailand (fiscal 2008 through 2011). We are also under examination in the state of Illinois for fiscal years 2014 and 2015. Our primary foreign tax jurisdictions are Germany and the Netherlands. We have tax years open in Germany beginning in fiscal 2015 and the Netherlands beginning in fiscal 2011.  



 On September 12, 2017, the Company received an income tax refund from the State of Illinois of approximately $2.0 million, which was inclusive of interest earned. The refund was a result of the conclusion of the Illinois amended return related to the sale of the RF, Wireless and Power Division in 2011. A net benefit of $1.5 million, which includes $0.5 million of professional fee costs incurred to pursue the refund, was recognized in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 in discontinued operations.  



 As of March 3, 2018, our worldwide liability for uncertain tax positions related to continuing operations was $0.1 million, excluding interest and penalties, as compared to no liability as of May 27, 2017. The change to the uncertain tax positions for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was as a result of the preliminary German audit assessments and the related exposure for the open years, which was reserved in the second quarter of fiscal 2018. We record penalties and interest relating to uncertain tax positions in the income tax expense line item within the unaudited consolidated statements of income (loss). It is not expected that there will be a change to unrecognized tax provision within the next 12 months.  



 The valuation allowance against the net deferred tax assets increased to $10.0 million as of March 3, 2018. Changes during the first nine months relating to the Act include the impact from the deferred remeasurement, deemed earnings repatriation tax and changes to the permanent reinvestment assertion outside basis difference as a result of the Act. Additional impacts to the valuation allowance include an Illinois income tax rate increase and additional domestic federal and state net deferred tax assets generated during the first three quarters of fiscal year 2018 due to additional losses in the U.S. jurisdiction. The valuation allowance against the net deferred tax assets was $8.5 million as of May 27, 2017. A full valuation allowance on the U.S. and state deferred tax assets will be maintained until sufficient positive evidence related to sources of future taxable income exists to support a reversal of the valuation allowance. The amount of the deferred tax asset considered realizable, however, could be adjusted if estimates of future taxable income during the carryforward period are increased, or if objective negative evidence in the form of cumulative losses is no longer present and additional weight may be given to subjective evidence such as our projections for growth.  



  9. CALCULATION OF EARNINGS PER SHARE  



 We have authorized 17,000,000 shares of common stock, and 3,000,000 shares of Class B common stock. The Class B common stock has 10 votes per share and has transferability restrictions; however, Class B common stock may be converted into common stock on a share-for-share basis at any time. With respect to dividends and distributions, shares of common stock and Class B common stock rank equally and have the same rights, except that Class B common stock cash dividends are limited to 90% of the amount of Class A common stock cash dividends.  



 In accordance with ASC 260-10, Earnings Per Share (“ASC 260”), our Class B common stock is considered a participating security requiring the use of the two-class method for the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share. The two-class computation method for each period reflects the cash dividends paid per share for each class of stock, plus the amount of allocated undistributed earnings per share computed using the participation percentage which reflects the dividend rights of each class of stock. Basic and diluted earnings per share were computed using the two-class method as prescribed in ASC 260. The shares of Class B common stock are considered to be participating convertible securities since the shares of Class B common stock are convertible on a share-for-share basis into shares of common stock and may participate in dividends with common stock according to a predetermined formula which is 90% of the amount of Class A common stock cash dividends.   























 Power and Microwave Technologies Group (“PMT”) combines our core engineered solutions, power grid and microwave tube business with new RF and power technologies. As a manufacturer and authorized distributor, PMT’s strategy is to provide specialized technical expertise and engineered solutions based on our core engineering and manufacturing capabilities. We provide solutions and add value through design-in support, systems integration, prototype design and manufacturing, testing, logistics, and aftermarket technical service and repair—all through our existing global infrastructure. PMT’s focus is on products for power, RF and microwave applications for customers in alternative energy, aviation, broadcast, communications, industrial, marine, medical, military, scientific, and semiconductor markets. PMT focuses on various applications including broadcast transmission, CO2 laser cutting, diagnostic imaging, dielectric and induction heating, high energy transfer, high voltage switching, plasma, power conversion, radar, and radiation oncology. PMT also offers its customers technical services for both microwave and industrial equipment.  



 Canvys provides customized display solutions serving the corporate enterprise, financial, healthcare, industrial, and medical original equipment manufacturers (“OEM”) markets.  



 Healthcare manufactures, refurbishes and distributes high value replacement parts for the healthcare market including hospitals, medical centers, asset management companies, independent service organizations, and multi-vendor service providers. Products include Diagnostic Imaging replacement parts for CT and MRI systems; replacement CT and MRI tubes; CT service training; MRI coils, cold heads, and RF amplifiers; hydrogen thyratrons, klystrons, magnetrons; flat panel detector upgrades; and additional replacement solutions currently under development for the diagnostic imaging service market. Through a combination of newly developed products and partnerships, service offerings, and training programs, we believe we can help our customers improve efficiency and deliver better clinical outcomes while lowering the cost of healthcare delivery.  



 The CEO evaluates performance and allocates resources primarily based on the gross profit of each segment.  















      (1)   Other includes primarily net sales not allocated to a specific geographical region, unabsorbed value-add costs and other unallocated expenses.    







 On December 5, 2017, Steven H. Busch filed a Verified Stockholder Derivative Complaint against Edward J. Richardson, Paul Plante, Jacques Belin, James Benham, Kenneth Halverson, and the Company in the Delaware Court of Chancery, captioned Steven H. Busch v. Edward J. Richardson, et al., C.A. No. 2017-0868-AGB. The lawsuit alleges claims for breach of fiduciary duty by the Company’s directors and challenges the decision of a special committee of the Company’s Board to refuse Mr. Busch’s demand that the Company’s Board, among other things, rescind the Company’s May 2013 repurchase of stock from Mr. Richardson and May 2013 and October 2014 repurchases of Company stock from the Richardson Wildlife Foundation. The Company believes the lawsuit to be without merit and that a loss is not probable or estimable based on the information available at the time the financial statements were issued.  





 12. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS  



 ASC 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (“ASC 820”), defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States and expands disclosures about fair value measurements.  





 As of March 3, 2018 and May 27, 2017, we held investments that are required to be measured at fair value on a recurring basis. Our investments currently consist of time deposits and CDs, where face value is equal to fair value, and as of May 27, 2017, equity securities of publicly traded companies for which market prices are readily available.  







 13. Related Party Transaction  



 On June 15, 2015, the Company entered into a lease agreement for the IMES facility with LDL, LLC. The Executive Vice President of IMES, Lee A. McIntyre III (former owner of IMES), has an ownership interest in LDL, LLC. The lease agreement provides for monthly payments over five years with total future minimum lease payments of $0.3 million. Rental expense related to this lease amounted to $0.1 million for the nine months ended March 3, 2018 and for the nine months ended February 25, 2017. The Company shall be entitled to extend the term of the lease for a period of an additional five years by notifying the landlord in writing of its intention to do so within nine months of the expiration of the initial term.  





  ITEM 2.    MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    



 Certain statements in this report may constitute “forward-looking” statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The terms “may,” “should,” “could,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “continues,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “objective,” “plan,” “potential,” “project” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. These statements are based on management’s current expectations, intentions or beliefs and are subject to a number of factors, assumptions and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences or that might otherwise impact the business include the risk factors set forth in Item 1A, of our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on July 31, 2017. We undertake no obligation to update any such factor or to publicly announce the results of any revisions to any forward-looking statements contained herein whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.  



 In addition, while we do, from time to time, communicate with securities analysts, it is against our policy to disclose to them any material non-public information or other confidential commercial information. Accordingly, stockholders should not assume that we agree with any statement or report issued by any analyst irrespective of the content of the statement or report. Thus, to the extent that reports issued by securities analysts contain any projections, forecasts, or opinions, such reports are not our responsibility.  



 INTRODUCTION  







 Business Overview  



 Richardson Electronics, Ltd. is a leading global provider of engineered solutions, power grid and microwave tubes and related consumables; power conversion and RF and microwave components; high value flat panel detector solutions, replacement parts, tubes and service training for diagnostic imaging equipment; and customized display solutions. We serve customers in the alternative energy, healthcare, aviation, broadcast, communications, industrial, marine, medical, military, scientific and semiconductor markets. The Company’s strategy is to provide specialized technical expertise and “engineered solutions” based on our core engineering and manufacturing capabilities. The Company provides solutions and adds value through design-in support, systems integration, prototype design and manufacturing, testing, logistics, and aftermarket technical service and repair through its global infrastructure.  



 Our products include electron tubes and related components, microwave generators, subsystems used in semiconductor manufacturing, and visual technology solutions. These products are used to control, switch or amplify electrical power signals, or are used as display devices in a variety of industrial, commercial, medical, and communication applications.  





 Power and Microwave Technologies Group (“PMT”) combines our core engineered solutions, power grid and microwave tube business with new RF and power technologies. As a manufacturer and authorized distributor, PMT’s strategy is to provide specialized technical expertise and engineered solutions based on our core engineering and manufacturing capabilities. We provide solutions and add value through design-in support, systems integration, prototype design and manufacturing, testing, logistics, and aftermarket technical service and repair—all through our existing global infrastructure. PMT’s focus is on products for power, RF and microwave applications for customers in alternative energy, aviation, broadcast, communications, industrial, marine, medical, military, scientific, and semiconductor markets. PMT focuses on various applications including broadcast transmission, CO2 laser cutting, diagnostic imaging, dielectric and induction heating, high energy transfer, high voltage switching, plasma, power conversion, radar, and radiation oncology. PMT also offers its customers technical services for both microwave and industrial equipment.  





 Canvys provides customized display solutions serving the corporate enterprise, financial, healthcare, industrial, and medical original equipment manufacturers (“OEM”) markets.  



 Healthcare manufactures, refurbishes and distributes high value replacement parts for the healthcare market including hospitals, medical centers, asset management companies, independent service organizations, and multi-vendor service providers. Products include Diagnostic Imaging replacement parts for CT and MRI systems; replacement CT and MRI tubes; CT service training; MRI coils, cold heads, and RF amplifiers; hydrogen thyratrons, klystrons, magnetrons; flat panel detector upgrades; and additional replacement solutions currently under development for the diagnostic imaging service market. Through a combination of newly developed products and partnerships, service offerings, and training programs, we believe we can help our customers improve efficiency and deliver better clinical outcomes while lowering the cost of healthcare delivery.  





 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  



 Financial Summary – Three Months Ended March 3, 2018  



      ●   Net sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 were $41.6 million, an increase of 28.9%, compared to net sales of $32.3 million during the third quarter of fiscal 2017.   



      ●   Gross margin increased to 33.8% during the third quarter of fiscal 2018, compared to 33.1% during the third quarter of fiscal 2017.   



      ●   Selling, general and administrative expenses were $13.1 million, or 31.4% of net sales, for the third quarter of fiscal 2018, compared to $12.0 million, or 37.1% of net sales, for the third quarter of fiscal 2017.   



      ●   Operating income during the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was $1.0 million, compared to an operating loss of $1.3 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2017.    



      ●   Net income during the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was $0.5 million, compared to net loss of $1.4 million during the third quarter of fiscal 2017.   



 Financial Summary – Nine Months Ended March 3, 2018  



      ●   The first nine months of fiscal 2018 and 2017 contained 40 and 39 weeks, respectively.    



      ●   Net sales for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 were $117.7 million, an increase of 18.3%, compared to net sales of $99.5 million during the first nine months of fiscal 2017.   



      ●   Gross margin increased to 33.6% during the first nine months of fiscal 2018, compared to 32.1% during the first nine months of fiscal 2017.   



      ●   Selling, general and administrative expenses were $38.0 million, or 32.3% of net sales, for the first nine months of fiscal 2018, compared to $37.7 million, or 37.9% of net sales, for the first nine months of fiscal 2017.   



      ●   Operating income during the first nine months of fiscal 2018 was $1.8 million, compared to an operating loss of $5.8 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2017.   



      ●   Income from continuing operations during the first nine months of fiscal 2018 was $0.6 million, compared to loss from continuing operations of $6.8 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2017.    



      ●   Income from discontinued operations during the first nine months of fiscal 2018 was $1.5 million. There was no income (loss) from discontinued operations during the first nine months of fiscal 2017.    



      ●   Net income during the first nine months of fiscal 2018 was $2.1 million, compared to net loss of $6.8 million during the first nine months of fiscal 2017.    





 Net Sales and Gross Profit Analysis  









 During the third quarter of fiscal 2018 consolidated net sales increased 28.9% compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2017. Sales for PMT increased 28.7%, sales for Canvys increased 57.2% and sales for Healthcare decreased 19.6%. The increase in PMT was due to specialty products engineered and manufactured in LaFox which are sold to the semiconductor capital market and new technology partners in power conversion and RF and microwave components. The increase for Canvys was due to increased customer demand in both our North American and European markets. The decrease in Richardson Healthcare was primarily due to the sale of the PACS display business at the end of fiscal 2017, partially offset by higher sales of equipment and certified and refurbished CT tubes.  



 During the first nine months of fiscal 2018 consolidated net sales increased 18.3% compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2017. Sales for PMT increased 20.8%, sales for Canvys increased 34.8% and sales for Healthcare decreased 28.6%. The increase in PMT was due to specialty products engineered and manufactured in LaFox which are sold to the semiconductor capital market, new technology partners in power conversion and RF and microwave components, complemented by increased sales of power grid tubes. The increase for Canvys was due to increased customer demand in both our North American and European markets. The decrease in Richardson Healthcare was primarily due to the sale of the PACS display business at the end of fiscal 2017, partially offset by higher sales of equipment and certified and refurbished CT tubes.  









 Gross profit reflects the distribution and manufacturing product margin less manufacturing variances, inventory obsolescence charges, customer returns, scrap and cycle count adjustments, engineering costs and other provisions.  





 Consolidated gross profit increased to $14.1 million during the third quarter of fiscal 2018, compared to $10.7 million during the third quarter of fiscal 2017. Consolidated gross margin as a percentage of net sales increased to 33.8% during the third quarter of fiscal 2018, from 33.1% during the third quarter of fiscal 2017, primarily due to favorable product mix for PMT and favorable product mix and lower costs on selected products for Canvys.  



 Consolidated gross profit increased to $39.6 million during the first nine months of fiscal 2018, compared to $31.9 million during the first nine months of fiscal 2017. Consolidated gross margin as a percentage of net sales increased to 33.6% during the first nine months of fiscal 2018, from 32.1% during the first nine months of fiscal 2017, primarily due to favorable product mix for PMT, favorable product mix and lower costs on selected products for Canvys and the sale of the PACS display business, which generated lower margins in our Healthcare business.  



 Power and Microwave Technologies Group  



 PMT net sales increased 28.7% to $31.9 million during the third quarter of fiscal 2018, from $24.8 million during the third quarter of fiscal 2017. The increase was due to specialty products engineered and manufactured in LaFox which are sold to the semiconductor capital market and new technology partners in power conversion and RF and microwave components. Gross margin as a percentage of net sales increased to 33.4% during the third quarter of fiscal 2018, as compared to 32.6% during the third quarter of fiscal 2017, due to favorable product mix.  



 PMT net sales increased 20.8% to $91.1 million during the first nine months of fiscal 2018, from $75.4 million during the first nine months of fiscal 2017. The increase included sales of specialty products engineered and manufactured in LaFox which are sold primarily into the semiconductor capital equipment market, sales from new technology partners in power conversion and RF and microwave components, complemented by increased sales of power grid tubes. Gross margin as a percentage of net sales increased to 33.5% during the first nine months of fiscal 2018, as compared to 31.6% during the nine months of fiscal 2017, due to favorable product mix and favorable manufacturing results from our LaFox production facility.  



 Canvys  



 Canvys net sales increased 57.2% to $7.6 million during the third quarter of fiscal 2018, from $4.8 million during the third quarter of fiscal 2017 due to increased customer demand in both our North American and European markets. Gross margin as a percentage of net sales increased to 33.9% during the third quarter of fiscal 2018 as compared to 27.6% during the third quarter of fiscal 2017, due to favorable product mix and lower costs on selected products sold.  



 Canvys net sales increased 34.8% to $20.1 million during the first nine months of fiscal 2018, from $14.9 million during the first nine months of fiscal 2017 due to increased customer demand in both our North American and European markets. Gross margin as a percentage of net sales increased to 31.1% during the first nine months of fiscal 2018 as compared to 28.4% during the first nine months of fiscal 2017, due to favorable product mix and lower costs on selected products sold.  



 Healthcare  



 Healthcare net sales decreased 19.6% to $2.2 million during the third quarter of fiscal 2018, from $2.7 million during the third quarter of fiscal 2017 primarily due to the sale of the PACS display business at the end of fiscal 2017, partially offset by higher sales of equipment and certified and refurbished CT tubes. Gross margin as a percentage of net sales decreased to 38.3% during the third quarter of fiscal 2018 as compared to 47.2% during the third quarter of fiscal 2017 due to an unfavorable product mix that favored equipment sales.  



 Healthcare net sales decreased 28.6% to $6.6 million during the first nine months of fiscal 2018, from $9.3 million during the first nine months of fiscal 2017 primarily due to the sale of the PACS display business at the end of fiscal 2017, partially offset by higher sales of equipment and certified and refurbished CT tubes. Gross margin as a percentage of net sales increased to 43.2% during the first nine months of fiscal 2018 as compared to 41.8% during the first nine months of fiscal 2017 due to the sale of the PACS display business, which generated lower margins, offset partially by an unfavorable product mix that favored equipment sales.  



 Selling, General, and Administrative Expenses  



 Selling, general and administrative expenses increased to $13.1 million during the third quarter of fiscal 2018 from $12.0 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2017. The increase was due to higher compensation and other expenses mostly related to the increase in net sales as well as higher research and development costs and other incremental expenses for Richardson Healthcare. Operating expenses as a percent of sales decreased to 31.4% in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 from 37.1% in the third quarter of fiscal 2017.  





 Selling, general and administrative expenses increased to $38.0 million during the first nine months of fiscal 2018 from $37.7 million during the first nine months of fiscal 2017. The increase was due to higher compensation and other expenses mostly related to the increase in net sales as well as higher research and development costs and other incremental expenses to support our growth strategies in Richardson Healthcare. The increase was partially offset by a charge of $1.3 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2017 for severance expense related to a reduction in workforce.  









 Income Tax Provision  



 We recorded an income tax provision from continuing operations of $1.1 million and $0.8 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 and the first nine months of fiscal 2017, respectively. The effective income tax rate from continuing operations during the first nine months of fiscal 2018 was a tax provision of 65.0%, as compared to a tax provision of (13.7%) during the first nine months of fiscal 2017. The difference in rate during the first nine months of fiscal 2018, as compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2017, reflects the change in the overall loss realized through the third quarter in each respective period, changes in our geographical distribution of income (loss), the recording of provision to return true-ups of various foreign jurisdictions, the accrual of an uncertain tax position with respect to a German audit and our positions with respect to permanent reinvestment of foreign earnings under ASC 740-30, Income Taxes - Other Considerations or Special Areas (“ASC 740-30”). The 65.0% effective income tax rate differs from the federal statutory rate of 29.2% as a result of our geographical distribution of income (loss), the recording of a valuation allowance against the increase in our U.S. state and federal net deferred tax assets, recognition of an uncertain tax position and preliminary tax assessments with respect to the income tax audit in Germany.  



 On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted new tax legislation, Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Act”). The primary provisions of the Act expected to impact the Company in fiscal 2018 are a reduction to the U.S. corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% and a transition from a worldwide corporate tax system to a territorial tax system. The reduction in the corporate income tax rate requires the Company to remeasure its net deferred tax assets to the new corporate tax rate and the transition to a territorial tax system requires payment of a one-time tax on deemed repatriation of undistributed and previously untaxed non-U.S. earnings. Primarily as a result of those provisions of the Act, the Company recorded a deferred remeasurement impact of approximately $1.6 million, which was fully offset by the valuation allowance movement. Additionally, the estimated deemed earnings repatriation tax, net of available foreign tax credits brought back as part of the deemed repatriation, was $3.5 million. The Company does not anticipate any cash tax payments due to the foreign tax credit carryforwards available to fully offset the provisional deemed repatriation tax.  



 The 21% corporate income tax rate was effective January 1, 2018. Based on the Company’s June 2, 2018 fiscal year end, the U.S. statutory income tax rate for fiscal 2018 will be approximately 29.2%.  



 The tax impact recorded for the Act during the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was provisional as outlined below and may change. The Company completed a preliminary assessment of earnings that could be repatriated based on reinvestment needs of non-U.S. operations and earnings available for repatriation. The estimated withholding tax that would be incurred from the repatriation of those earnings is included in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 provisional income tax expense. The Company continues to analyze the provisions of the Act addressing the net deferred tax asset remeasurement and its calculations, the deemed earnings repatriation, including the determination of undistributed non-U.S. earnings, and evaluate potential Company actions, including repatriating additional non-U.S. earnings and actions that could affect the Company’s fiscal year ended 2018 U.S. taxable income. In addition, the Company continues to monitor potential legislative action and regulatory interpretations of the Act.  



 Based on the effective date of certain provisions, the Company will be subject to additional requirements of the Act beginning in fiscal 2019. Those provisions include a tax on global intangible low-taxed income (GILTI), a tax determined by base erosion tax benefits (BEAT) from certain payments between a U.S. corporation and foreign subsidiaries, a limitation of certain executive compensation, a deduction for foreign derived intangible income (FDII) and interest expense limitations. The Company has not completed its analysis of those provisions and the estimated impact. The Company also has not determined its accounting policy to treat the taxes due on GILTI as a period cost or include in the determination of deferred taxes.  





 In December 2017, the SEC issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 that allows for a measurement period up to one year after the enactment date of the Act to complete the accounting requirements. The Company will complete the adjustments related to the Act within the allowed period.  



 We have historically determined that undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries, to the extent of cash available, will be repatriated to the U.S. Due to the deemed earnings repatriation tax, the outside basis difference for which the historic balance has primarily related has been reduced. The deferred tax liability on the outside basis difference is now primarily withholding tax. Accordingly, we have reduced the deferred tax liability from $5.7 million as of the second quarter of fiscal 2018 to $0.2 million as of the third quarter of fiscal 2018 on foreign earnings of $47.2 million.  



 In the normal course of business, we are subject to examination by taxing authorities throughout the world. Generally, years prior to fiscal 2007 are closed for examination under the statute of limitation for U.S. federal, U.S. state and local or non-U.S. tax jurisdictions. We are currently under examination in Thailand (fiscal 2008 through 2011). We are also under examination in the state of Illinois for fiscal years 2014 and 2015. Our primary foreign tax jurisdictions are Germany and the Netherlands. We have tax years open in Germany beginning in fiscal 2015 and the Netherlands beginning in fiscal 2011.  



 On September 12, 2017, the Company received an income tax refund from the State of Illinois of approximately $2.0 million, which was inclusive of interest earned. The refund was a result of the conclusion of the Illinois amended return related to the sale of the RF, Wireless and Power Division in 2011. A net benefit of $1.5 million, which includes $0.5 million of professional fee costs incurred to pursue the refund, was recognized in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 in discontinued operations.  



 Recently Adopted Accounting Standards  





 Net Income (Loss) and Per Share Data  



 Net income during the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was $0.5 million or $0.04 per diluted common share and $0.04 per Class B diluted common share, as compared to net loss of $1.4 million during the third quarter of fiscal 2017, or ($0.11) per diluted common share and ($0.10) per Class B diluted common share.  



 Net income, including income from discontinued operations of $1.5 million, during the first nine months of fiscal 2018 was $2.1 million, or $0.17 per diluted common share and $0.15 per Class B diluted common share, as compared to net loss of $6.8 million during the first nine months of fiscal 2017, or ($0.54) per diluted common share and ($0.48) per Class B diluted common share.  



 LIQUIDITY, FINANCIAL POSITION AND CAPITAL RESOURCES  



 Our operations and cash needs have been primarily financed through income from operations and cash on hand.  







 We believe that the existing sources of liquidity, including current cash, will provide sufficient resources to meet known capital requirements and working capital needs through the next twelve months.   





 Cash Flows from Operating Activities  



 The cash used in operating activities primarily resulted from adjustments for non-cash items and changes in our operating assets and liabilities.   



 Operating activities used $0.3 million of cash during the first nine months of fiscal 2018. We had net income of $2.1 million during the first nine months of fiscal 2018, which included non-cash stock-based compensation expense of $0.4 million associated with the issuance of stock option and restricted stock awards and depreciation and amortization expense of $2.2 million associated with our property and equipment as well as amortization of our intangible assets. Changes in our operating assets and liabilities during the first nine months of fiscal 2018, net of foreign currency exchange gains and losses, included an increase in inventories of $5.2 million, a decrease of $0.4 million in accounts payable and an increase in prepaid expenses and other assets of $0.6 million, partially offset by an increase in accrued liabilities of $1.3 million. The inventory increase was due to the ongoing growth of our RF and power technologies business, increase in raw material and work in process supporting the semiconductor capital equipment market and growth in supplying replacement systems and parts to the Healthcare market. The decrease in our accounts payable was due to timing of payments for some of our larger vendors for both inventory and services.  



 Operating activities used $3.2 million of cash during the first nine months of fiscal 2017. We had net loss of $6.8 million during the first nine months of fiscal 2017, which included non-cash stock-based compensation expense of $0.4 million associated with the issuance of stock option awards, deferred income tax credit adjustment of $0.2 million, and depreciation and amortization expense of $2.0 million associated with our property and equipment as well as amortization of our intangible assets. Changes in our operating assets and liabilities during the first nine months of fiscal 2017, net of foreign currency exchange gains and losses, included an increase of $1.0 million in prepaid expenses, a decrease of $2.4 million in accounts payable and a decrease in other accrued liabilities of $0.3 million, partially offset by decreases in receivables of $3.2 million and inventories of $1.9 million. The decrease in receivables of $3.2 million was primarily due to the collection of a large receivable during the first quarter of fiscal 2017 that was invoiced during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016. The inventory decrease was due to decreases in selected electron tubes. The decrease in our accounts payable was due to timing of payments for some of our larger vendors and also the result of shorter payment terms for our Richardson Healthcare vendors.  



 Cash Flows from Investing Activities  



 The cash flow from investing activities has consisted primarily of purchases and maturities of investments and capital expenditures.  



 Cash provided by investing activities of $4.9 million during the first nine months of fiscal 2018 included proceeds from the maturities of investments of $12.1 million, partially offset by $3.9 million from purchases of investments and $4.2 million in capital expenditures. Capital expenditures relates primarily to our Healthcare growth initiatives, a new roof for part of our warehouse and capital used for our IT system.  



 Cash used by investing activities of $2.6 million during the first nine months of fiscal 2017, included proceeds from the maturities of investments of $3.6 million, offset by $2.1 million from purchases of investments and $4.1 million in capital expenditures. Capital expenditures relates primarily to our Healthcare growth initiative and capital used for our new IT system.  



 Our purchases and proceeds from investments consist of time deposits and CDs. Purchasing of future investments may vary from period to period due to interest and foreign currency exchange rates.  



 Cash Flows from Financing Activities  



 The cash flow from financing activities consists of cash dividends paid.  



 Cash used in financing activities of $2.2 million during the first nine months of fiscal 2018 resulted from cash used to pay dividends.  



 Cash used in financing activities of $2.2 million during the first nine months of fiscal 2017 resulted from cash used to pay dividends.  



 Dividend payments for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 were approximately $2.3 million. All future payments of dividends are at the discretion of the Board of Directors. Dividend payments will depend on earnings, capital requirements, operating conditions, and such other factors that the Board may deem relevant.    





   ITEM 3.   QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK    



 Risk Management and Market Sensitive Financial Instruments  



 We are exposed to many different market risks with the various industries we serve. The primary financial risk we are exposed to is foreign currency exchange, as certain operations, assets and liabilities of ours are denominated in foreign currencies. We manage these risks through normal operating and financing activities.  



 The interpretation and analysis of these disclosures should not be considered in isolation since such variances in exchange rates would likely influence other economic factors. Such factors, which are not readily quantifiable, would likely also affect our operations. Additional disclosure regarding various market risks are set forth in Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors“ of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended May 27, 2017, filed July 31, 2017.  



  ITEM 4.   CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES    



  (a)   Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures    



 Management of the Company, with the participation of the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”)) as of March 3, 2018.  



 Disclosure controls and procedures are intended to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed in the Company’s Exchange Act reports is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified by the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to management, including the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Based on this evaluation, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this report.  



  (b)   Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting    



 There were no changes in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting identified in connection with the evaluation required by paragraph (d) of Exchange Act Rules 13a-15 or 15d-15 that occurred during the third quarter of fiscal 2018 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.  





 PART II. OTHER INFORMATION  



  ITEM 1.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS    



 On December 5, 2017, Steven H. Busch filed a Verified Stockholder Derivative Complaint against Edward J. Richardson, Paul Plante, Jacques Belin, James Benham, Kenneth Halverson, and the Company in the Delaware Court of Chancery, captioned Steven H. Busch v. Edward J. Richardson, et al., C.A. No. 2017-0868-AGB. The lawsuit alleges claims for breach of fiduciary duty by the Company’s directors and challenges the decision of a special committee of the Company’s Board to refuse Mr. Busch’s demand that the Company’s Board, among other things, rescind the Company’s May 2013 repurchase of stock from Mr. Richardson and May 2013 and October 2014 repurchases of Company stock from the Richardson Wildlife Foundation. The Company believes the lawsuit to be without merit and that a loss is not probable or estimable based on the information available at the time the financial statements were issued.  



  ITEM 1A.   RISK FACTORS    



 There have been no material changes to the risk factors previously disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended May 27, 2017, filed July 31, 2017.  



  ITEM 2.   UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS   



  ITEM 5.   OTHER INFORMATION    



 Results of Operation and Financial Condition and Declaration of Dividend  



 On April 11, 2018, we issued a press release reporting results for our third quarter ended March 3, 2018, and the declaration of a cash dividend. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 10-Q and incorporated by reference herein.  





 See exhibit index which is incorporated by reference herein.  





 SIGNATURES  



 Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.  







 Exhibit Index  





