fls.txt



item1.txt
On March 10, 2017 (Acquisition Date), the Company completed the acquisition of Linear Technology Corporation (Linear), a designer, manufacturer and marketer of high performance analog integrated circuits.
See Note 13, Acquisitions, of these Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.
Revenue from product sales to customers is generally recognized when title passes, which is upon shipment in the U.S. and in certain foreign countries.
Title for shipments to these other foreign countries ordinarily passes within a week of shipment.
The Company uses its best estimate of selling price to allocate arrangement consideration between the deliverables in cases where neither vendor-specific objective evidence nor third-party evidence is available.
A reserve for sales returns and allowances for customers is recorded based on historical experience or specific identification of an event necessitating a reserve.
Revenue from contracts with the United States government, government prime contractors and some commercial customers is generally recorded on a percentage of completion basis using either units delivered or costs incurred as the measurement basis for progress towards completion.
Estimated revenue in excess of amounts billed is reported as unbilled receivables.
The estimation of costs at completion of a contract is subject to numerous variables involving contract costs and estimates as to the length of time to complete the contract.
Changes in contract performance, estimated gross margin, including the impact of final contract settlements, and estimated losses are recognized in the period in which the changes or losses are determined.
Product sales to certain international distributors are made under agreements that permit limited stock return privileges but not sales price rebates.
Revenue on these sales is recognized upon shipment at which time title passes.
As a result, the Company’s revenue fully reflects end customer purchases and is not impacted by distributor inventory levels.
Sales to certain of these distributors are made under agreements that allow such distributors to receive price-adjustment credits, as discussed below, and to return qualifying products for credit, as determined by the Company, in order to reduce the amounts of slow-moving, discontinued or obsolete product from their inventory.
Upon title transfer to distributors, inventory is reduced for the cost of goods shipped, the margin (sales less cost of sales) is recorded as “deferred income on shipments to distributors, net” and an account receivable is recorded.
Shipping costs are charged to cost of sales as incurred.


item2.txt
We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements, including to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of the filing of this report, except to the extent required by law.
On March 10, 2017 (Acquisition Date), we completed the acquisition of Linear Technology Corporation (Linear), a designer, manufacturer and marketer of high performance analog integrated circuits.
See Note 13, Acquisitions, in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further information.
As data systems for capturing and tracking this data evolve and improve, the categorization of products by end market can vary over time.
When this occurs, we reclassify revenue by end market for prior periods.
Such reclassifications typically do not materially change the sizing of, or the underlying trends of results within, each end market.


item3.txt



part2.txt
Significant disruption to global credit and financial markets may also adversely affect our ability to access external financing sources on acceptable terms.
Financial difficulties experienced by our customers could result in nonpayment or payment delays for previously purchased products, thereby increasing our credit risk exposure.
In addition, financial difficulties experienced by our suppliers or distributors could result in product delays, increased accounts receivable defaults and inventory challenges.
Our future revenue, gross margins, operating results, net income and earnings per share are difficult to predict and may materially fluctuate.
There can be no assurance (i) that products stocked in our inventory will not be rendered obsolete before we ship them, or (ii) that we will be able to design, develop and produce products in a timely fashion to accommodate changing customer demand.
fluctuations in future revenue, gross margins, operating results, net income and earnings per share on a quarterly or annual basis.
We typically do not have long-term sales contracts with our customers.


