fls.txt



item1.txt
As further discussed in Note 2, Revenue Recognition and Note 13, New Accounting Pronouncements, the Company adopted the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASU 2014-09), in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
As a result of the adoption of ASU 2014-09, the Company changed its accounting policy for revenue recognition and recognizes revenue from product sales to its customers and distributors when title passes, which is generally upon shipment.
See Note 2, Revenue Recognition, in these Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for the details of the Company’s revenue recognition policies.
The adoption of ASU 2014-09 impacted the Company’s condensed consolidated statements of income and balance sheets but did not impact its condensed consolidated statements of cash flows, with the exceptions of net income and reclassifications within adjustments to reconcile net income to cash provided by operations and did not impact the condensed consolidated statement of shareholders' equity, with the exceptions of retained earnings and net income.
See Note 13, New Accounting Pronouncements, and Note 12, Income Taxes, in these Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the adoption of ASU 2016-16.
Revenue from contracts with the United States government, government prime contractors and certain commercial customers is recorded over time using either units delivered or costs incurred as the measurement basis for progress toward completion.
Estimated revenue in excess of amounts billed is reported as unbilled receivables.
The estimation of costs at completion of a contract is subject to numerous variables involving contract costs and estimates as to the length of time to complete the contract.
Changes in contract performance, estimated gross margin, including the impact of final contract settlements, and estimated losses are recognized in the period in which the changes or losses are determined.
There was no material ineffectiveness recorded within OCI related to designated forward foreign currency derivative instruments in the three-month periods ended February 2, 2019 and February 3, 2018.
None of these investments have been in a loss position for more than twelve months.
As the Company does not intend to sell these investments and it is unlikely that the Company will be required to sell the investments before recovery of their amortized basis, which will be at maturity, the Company does not consider those investments to be other-than-temporarily impaired at February 2, 2019 and November 3, 2018.
Realized gains or losses on investments are determined based on the specific identification basis and are recognized in nonoperating expense (income).
There were no material net realized gains or losses from the sales of available-for-sale investments during any of the fiscal periods presented.
Unvested restricted stock awards that entitle recipients to voting and nonforfeitable dividend rights from the date of grant are considered participating securities and the two-class method is used for purposes of calculating earnings per share.
Under the two-class method, a portion of net income is allocated to these participating securities and therefore is excluded from the calculation of earnings per share allocated to common stock, as shown in the table below.


item2.txt
We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements, including to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of the filing of this report, except to the extent required by law.
As data systems for capturing and tracking this data evolve and improve, the categorization of products by end market can vary over time.
When this occurs, we reclassify revenue by end market for prior periods.
Such reclassifications typically do not materially change the sizing of, or the underlying trends of results within, each end market.
In addition, Consumer end market revenues decreased in the three-month period ended February 2, 2019, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year as a result of decreased demand for products used in portable consumer applications.


item3.txt



part2.txt
Significant disruption to global credit and financial markets may also adversely affect our ability to access external financing sources on acceptable terms.
Financial difficulties experienced by our customers could result in nonpayment or payment delays for previously purchased products, thereby increasing our credit risk exposure.
In addition, financial difficulties experienced by our suppliers, distributors or customers could result in product delays, increased accounts receivable defaults and inventory challenges.
There can be no assurance (i) that products stocked in our inventory will not be rendered obsolete before we ship them, or (ii) that we will be able to design, develop and produce products in a timely fashion to accommodate changing customer demand.
As a result of these and other factors, we may experience material fluctuations in future revenue, gross margins, operating results, net income and earnings per share on a quarterly or annual basis.
Changes in these laws and regulations, including those that align to or are associated with the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development's Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) Actions Plans, could impact the jurisdictions where we are deemed to earn income, which could in turn adversely affect our tax liability and results of operations.
As such, any rights granted under these patents may not provide us with adequate protection.
Even if patents are granted, enforcement may not be available or achieved under the circumstances.


