As further discussed in Note 2, Revenue Recognition and Note 13, New Accounting Pronouncements, the Company adopted the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASU 2014-09), in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
As a result of the adoption of ASU 2014-09, the Company changed its accounting policy for revenue recognition and recognizes revenue from product sales to its customers and distributors when title passes, which is generally upon shipment.
See Note 2, Revenue Recognition, in these Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for the details of the Company’s revenue recognition policies.
The adoption of ASU 2014-09 impacted the Company’s condensed consolidated statements of income and balance sheets but did not impact its condensed consolidated statements of cash flows, with the exceptions of net income and reclassifications within adjustments to reconcile net income to cash provided by operations, and did not impact the condensed consolidated statement of shareholders' equity, with the exceptions of retained earnings and net income.
See Note 13, New Accounting Pronouncements, and Note 12, Income Taxes, in these Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the adoption of ASU 2016-16.
Revenue from contracts with the United States government, government prime contractors and certain commercial customers is recorded over time using either units delivered or costs incurred as the measurement basis for progress toward completion.
These measures are used to measure results directly and is generally the best measure of progress toward completion in circumstances in which a reliable measure of output can be established.
Estimated revenue in excess of amounts billed is reported as unbilled receivables.
The estimation of costs at completion of a contract is subject to numerous variables involving contract costs and estimates as to the length of time to complete the contract.
Changes in contract performance, estimated gross margin, including the impact of final contract settlements, and estimated losses are recognized in the period in which the changes or losses are determined.
None of these investments have been in a loss position for more than twelve months.We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements, including to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of the filing of this report, except to the extent required by law.
Such reclassifications typically do not materially change the sizing of, or the underlying trends of results within, each end market.
Automotive end market revenues decreased in the three-month period ended August 3, 2019, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, primarily as a result of a broad-based decrease in demand for our products.Significant disruption to global credit and financial markets may also adversely affect our ability to access external financing sources on acceptable terms.
Financial difficulties experienced by our customers could result in nonpayment or payment delays for previously purchased products, thereby increasing our credit risk exposure.
In addition, financial difficulties experienced by our suppliers, distributors or customers could result in product delays, increased accounts receivable defaults and inventory challenges.
There can be no assurance (i) that products stocked in our inventory will not be rendered obsolete before we ship them, or (ii) that we will be able to design, develop and produce products in a timely fashion to accommodate changing customer demand.
As a result of these and other factors, we may experience material fluctuations in future revenue, gross margins, operating results, net income and earnings per share on a quarterly or annual basis.