February 28, 2019 and August 31, 2018 
The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
For the Three Months Ended February 28, 2019 
The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
For the Three Months Ended February 28, 2018 
The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
For the Six Months Ended February 28, 2019 and 2018 
The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
On March 13, 2018, Accenture Holdings plc merged with and into Accenture plc, with Accenture plc as the surviving entity. As a result, all of the assets and liabilities of Accenture Holdings plc were acquired by Accenture plc, and Accenture Holdings plc ceased to exist. In connection with this internal merger, shareholders of Accenture Holdings plc (other than Accenture entities that held shares of Accenture Holdings plc), who primarily consisted of current and former members of Accenture Leadership and their permitted transferees, received one Class A ordinary share of Accenture plc for each share of Accenture Holdings plc that they owned, and Accenture plc redeemed all Class X ordinary shares of Accenture plc owned by such shareholders. 
Allowances for Client Receivables 
As of February 28, 2019 and August 31, 2018, total allowances recorded for client receivables were $53,616 and $49,913, respectively. 
Depreciation expense was $110,635 and $213,348 for the three and six months ended February 28, 2019, respectively, and $107,445 and $213,596 for the three and six months ended February 28, 2018, respectively. As of February 28, 2019 and August 31, 2018, total accumulated depreciation was $2,027,164 and $1,862,098, respectively. Deferred transition amortization expense was $68,209 and $137,088 for the three and six months ended February 28, 2019, respectively, and $71,288 and $153,142 for the three and six months ended February 28, 2018, respectively. See Note 6 (Goodwill and Intangible Assets) to these Consolidated Financial Statements for intangible asset amortization balances. 
Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements
Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2014-09 (“Topic 606”)
On September 1, 2018, we adopted FASB ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which replaced most existing revenue recognition guidance. The core principle of Topic 606 is that an entity should recognize revenue for the transfer of goods or services equal to the amount that it expects to be entitled to receive for those goods or services. Topic 606 has been applied to contracts that were not completed as of September 1, 2018. Results for reporting periods beginning after September 1, 2018 are presented under Topic 606, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with our historic accounting. See Note 2 (Revenues) to these Consolidated Financial Statements for further details. 
The impact of adopting the new standard for the three and six months ended February 28, 2019 was an increase to revenues of approximately $6.9 million and $19.4 million, respectively. The impact on our balance sheet as of February 28, 2019 was not material with the exception of the classification of $2.2 billion of receivables and $571.8 million of contract assets, which were previously classified as Unbilled services, net. 
FASB ASU No. 2017-07 
FASB ASU No. 2016-01 
New Accounting Pronouncement
We account for revenue in accordance with Topic 606, which we adopted on September 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method. 
Performance Obligations 
A performance obligation is a promise in a contract to transfer a distinct good or service to the client and is the unit of accounting in Topic 606. A contract’s transaction price is allocated to each distinct performance obligation and recognized as revenue when, or as, the performance obligation is satisfied. For contracts with multiple performance obligations, we allocate the contract’s transaction price to each performance obligation based on the relative standalone selling price. The primary method used to estimate standalone selling price is the expected cost plus a margin approach, under which we forecast our expected costs of satisfying a performance obligation and then add an appropriate margin for that distinct good or service based on margins for similar services sold on a standalone basis. While determining relative standalone selling price and identifying separate performance obligations require judgment, generally relative standalone selling prices and the separate performance obligations are readily identifiable as we sell those performance obligations unaccompanied by other performance obligations. Contract modifications are routine in the performance of our contracts. Contracts are often modified to account for changes in the contract specifications, requirements or duration. If a contract modification results in the addition of performance obligations priced at a standalone selling price or if the post-modification services are distinct from the services provided prior to the modification, the modification is accounted for separately. If the modified services are not distinct, they are accounted for as part of the existing contract. 
Outsourcing Contracts  
Our outsourcing contracts typically span several years. Revenues are generally recognized on outsourcing contracts over time because our clients benefit from the services as they are performed. Outsourcing contracts require us to provide a series of distinct services each period over the contract term. Revenues from unit-priced contracts are recognized as transactions are processed. When contractual billings represent an amount that corresponds directly with the value provided to the client (e.g., time-and-materials contracts), revenues are recognized as amounts become billable in accordance with contract terms. 
Technology Integration Consulting Services 
Our contracts for non-technology integration consulting services are typically less than a year in duration. Revenues are generally recognized over time as our clients benefit from the services as they are performed, or the contract includes termination provisions enabling payment for performance completed to date. When contractual billings represent an amount that corresponds directly with the value provided to the client (e.g. time-and-materials contracts), revenues are recognized as amounts become billable in accordance with contract terms. Revenues from fixed-price contracts are generally recognized using costs incurred to date relative to total estimated costs at completion to measure progress toward satisfying our performance obligations. Incurred cost represents work performed, which corresponds with, and thereby best depicts, the transfer of control to the client. For non-technology integration consulting contracts which do not qualify to recognize revenue over time, we recognize revenues at a point in time when we satisfy our performance obligations and the client obtains control of the promised good or service. 
Remaining Performance Obligations 
See Note 11 (Segment Reporting) to these Consolidated Financial Statements for our disaggregated revenues. 
Contract Estimates 
Adjustments in contract estimates related to performance obligations satisfied or partially satisfied in prior periods increased our revenues by approximately $37 million and $38 million for the three and six months ended February 28, 2019, respectively. No adjustment on any one contract was material to our Consolidated Financial Statements for the three and six months ended February 28, 2019. 
For some outsourcing contracts, we receive payments for transition or set-up activities, which are deferred and recognized as revenue as the services are provided. These advance payments are typically not a significant financing component because they are used to meet working capital demands in the early stages of a contract and to protect us from the other party failing to complete its obligations under the contract. Deferred transition revenues were $587,356 and $581,395 as of February 28, 2019 and August 31, 2018, respectively, and are included in Non-current deferred revenues. Costs related to these activities are also deferred and are expensed as the services are provided. Generally, deferred amounts are protected in the event of early termination of the contract and are monitored regularly for impairment. Impairment losses are recorded when projected remaining undiscounted operating cash flows of the related contract are not sufficient to recover the carrying amount of contract assets. Deferred transition costs were $702,404 and $690,868 as of February 28, 2019 and August 31, 2018, respectively, and are included in Deferred contract costs. 
Revenues recognized during the three and six months ended February 28, 2019 that were included in Deferred revenues as of November 30, 2018 and September 1, 2018 were $1.5 billion and $2.4 billion, respectively. 
Goodwill 
Goodwill includes immaterial adjustments related to prior period acquisitions. 
Intangible Assets 
Dividends 
The payment of the cash dividends also resulted in the issuance of an immaterial number of additional restricted share units to holders of restricted share units.
Subsequent Event 
On March 26, 2019, the Board of Directors of Accenture plc declared a semi-annual cash dividend of $1.46 per share on its Class A ordinary shares for shareholders of record at the close of business on April 11, 2019 payable on May 15, 2019. The payment of the cash dividend will result in the issuance of an immaterial number of additional restricted share units to holders of restricted share units.
Derivatives 
In the normal course of business, we use derivative financial instruments to manage foreign currency exchange rate risk. Our derivative financial instruments consist of deliverable and non-deliverable foreign currency forward contracts. 
Cash Flow Hedges 
For a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of the change in estimated fair value of a hedging instrument is recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive loss as a separate component of Shareholders’ Equity and is reclassified into Cost of services in the Consolidated Income Statements during the period in which the hedged transaction is recognized. For information related to derivatives designated as cash flow hedges that were reclassified into Cost of services during the three and six months ended February 28, 2019 and 2018, as well as those expected to be reclassified into Cost of services in the next 12 months, see Note 4 (Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss) to these Consolidated Financial Statements. 
Other Derivatives 
Realized gains or losses and changes in the estimated fair value of foreign currency forward contracts that have not been designated as hedges were net losses of $28,945 and $77,928 for the three and six months ended February 28, 2019, respectively, and net gains of $56,316 and $46,783 for the three and six months ended February 28, 2018, respectively. Gains and losses on these contracts are recorded in Other income (expense), net in the Consolidated Income Statements and are offset by gains and losses on the related hedged items. 
Fair Value of Derivative Instruments 
Equity Securities Without Readily Determinable Fair Values 
Indemnifications and Guarantees 
Legal Contingencies 
