Risk Factors of this report and in Part I Item 1A.
Risk Factors of our 2017 10-K. We are one of the world’s largest and most established business support solutions (“BSS”) providers, primarily serving some of the most well-known communications, information, and content companies around the globe.
We make their hardest decisions simpler and smarter as they work to evolve their businesses from a single-product offering to highly complex and competitive multi-product offerings, while also requiring increasingly differentiated, real-time, and personalized experiences for their customers.
We offer BSS and revenue management, customer experience and digital monetization solutions for every stage of the customer lifecycle so service providers can deliver an outstanding customer experience that adapts to their customers’ rapidly changing demands.
Certain deferred contract costs that had been included in our client contracts and other current and non-current assets on our Balance Sheet were reclassified and presented separately as a non-current client contract asset, net of related amortization.
Investments in client contracts on our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows have been reclassified to operating activities from investing activities.
As discussed in Note 5 to the Financial Statements, on February 28, 2017 we acquired Business Ink, a multi-channel communications company based in Austin, Texas, for approximately $70 million, excluding acquisition-related expenses.
For the second quarter and six months ended June 30, 2018, Business Ink contributed cloud and related solutions revenues of $15.7 million and $21.0 million, respectively, of and was slightly dilutive to our results of operations when factoring in acquired amortization expense.
Diluted EPS for the second quarter of 2018 was $0.46 compared to $0.35 for the second quarter of 2017, with the increase mainly attributed a lower effective income tax rate, primarily resulting from the U.S. Tax Reform enacted in December 2017.
As of June 30, 2018, we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $186.4 million, as compared to $222.1 million as of March 31, 2018 and $261.4 million as of as of December 31, 2017.
Our cash flows from operating activities for the quarter ended June 30, 2018 were $(3.6) million, which were negatively impacted by an increase in accounts receivable primarily related to the timing around a recurring client payment that was delayed at quarter-end.
See our 2017 10-K for additional discussion of our business relationships and contractual terms with Comcast, Charter, and DISH.
The preparation of our Financial Statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. requires us to select appropriate accounting policies, and to make judgments and estimates affecting the application of those accounting policies.
In March 2018, we refinanced our 2015 Credit Agreement (see Note 4 to our Financial Statements).The interest rate on our 2016 Convertible Notes is fixed, and thus, as it relates to our convertible debt borrowings, we are not exposed to changes in interest rates.
Refer to Note 4 to our Financial Statements for further details of our long-term debt.As required by Rule 13a-15(b), our management, including the Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”), conducted an evaluation as of the end of the period covered by this report of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Rule 13a-15(e).Item 1.