fls.txt



item1.txt
A-16-733154-C, was filed in the District Court, Clark County, Nevada on behalf of a putative class of stockholders of Newport for claims related to the Merger Agreement between the Company, Newport, and Merger Sub.
On March 25, 2016, a second putative class action complaint captioned Hubert C. Pincon v. Newport Corp., et al., Case No.
The complaints also alleged that the Company, Newport, and Merger Sub aided and abetted the directors’ alleged breaches of their fiduciary duties.
The complaint named as defendants the Company, Newport, and the then-current members of Newport’s former board of directors.


item2.txt
We are a global provider of instruments, subsystems and process control solutions that measure, monitor, deliver, analyze, power and control critical parameters of advanced manufacturing processes to improve process performance and productivity.
We also provide services relating to the maintenance and repair of our products, installation services and training.
Approximately 58% of our net revenues for both the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 were from sales to semiconductor capital equipment manufacturers and semiconductor device manufacturers.
Approximately 42% of our net revenues for both the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 were from other advanced manufacturing applications.
These include, but are not limited to, industrial technologies, life and health sciences, and research and defense.
For both six month periods ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, international net revenues accounted for approximately 50% of our total net revenues.
We have recorded a net increase to opening retained earnings of $1.8 million as of January 1, 2018 due to the cumulative impact of adopting ASC 606, with the impact primarily related to its service business and certain custom products.
The impact to revenues for the quarter ended June 30, 2018 was immaterial as a result of applying ASC 606.
Revenue under ASC 606 is recognized when or as obligations under the terms of a contract with our customer has been satisfied and control has transferred to the customer.
Installation services are not significant and are usually completed in a short period of time (normally less than two weeks) and therefore, recorded at a point in time when the installation services are completed, rather than over time as they are not material.
Extended warranty, service contracts, and repair services, which are transferred to the customer over time, are recorded as revenue as the services are performed.
Revenue is measured as the amount of consideration we expect to receive in exchange for transferring goods or providing services.
Performance obligations promised in a contract are identified based on the products or services that will be transferred to the customer that are both capable of being distinct, whereby the customer can benefit from the product or service either on its own or together with other resources that are readily available from third parties or from us, and are distinct in the context of the contract, whereby the transfer of the product or service is separately identifiable from other promises in the contract.
For certain products or services and customer types, we require payment before the products or services are delivered to the customer.
None of our contracts as of June 30, 2018 contain a significant financing component.
Contract assets as of January 1 and June 30, 2018 were $3.1 million and $3.3 million, respectively, and included in other current assets.
We periodically enter into contracts with our customers in which a customer may purchase a combination of goods and or services, such as products with installation services or extended warranty obligations.
To the extent the transaction price includes variable consideration, we estimate the amount of variable consideration that should be included in the transaction price utilizing either the expected value method or the most likely amount method depending on the method we expect to better predict the amount of consideration to which it will be entitled.
There are no constraints on the variable consideration recorded.
The corresponding revenues are recognized when or as the related performance obligations are satisfied, which are noted above.
We normally receive payment at the inception of the contract and recognize revenue over the term of the agreement in proportion to the costs expected to be incurred in satisfying the obligations under the contract.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
A-16-733154-C, was filed in the District Court, Clark County, Nevada on behalf of a putative class of stockholders of Newport for claims related to the Merger Agreement between the Company, Newport, and Merger Sub.
On March 25, 2016, a second putative class action complaint captioned Hubert C. Pincon v. Newport Corp., et al., Case No.
The complaints also alleged that the Company, Newport, and Merger Sub aided and abetted the directors’ alleged breaches of their fiduciary duties.
The complaint named as defendants the Company, Newport, and the then-current members of Newport’s former board of directors.


