fls.txt



item1.txt
The condensed consolidated balance sheet presented as of December 31, 2018 has been derived from the consolidated audited financial statements as of that date.
The Company adopted this ASU during the first quarter of 2019 and the adoption of this ASU did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
The Company is currently evaluating the requirements of this ASU and adoption could have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
The Company adopted this ASU during the first quarter of 2019 and the adoption of this ASU did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, “Leases”.
This standard requires the recognition of lease assets and liabilities for all leases, with certain exceptions, on the balance sheet.
right-of-use assets and $20,192 and $54,147 of short-term and long-term lease liabilities, respectively.
The Company does not have any finance leases.
The Company has lease arrangements with lease and non-lease components, has elected to account for the lease and non-lease components as a single lease component, and has allocated all of the contract consideration to the lease component only.
The Company has existing net leases in which the non-lease components (e.g. are paid separately from rent based on actual costs incurred.
right-of-use asset of $68,631, short-term lease liability of $20,670 and long-term lease liability of $51,141 were reflected on the balance sheet as of June 30, 2019.
5.1 years, respectively, for the period ended June 30, 2019.
Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.
Level 2 assets and liabilities include debt securities with quoted prices that are traded less frequently than exchange-traded instruments or securities or derivative contracts that are valued using a pricing model with inputs that are observable in the market or can be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data.
Level 3 assets and liabilities include financial instruments whose value is determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies, or similar techniques, as well as instruments for which the determination of fair value requires significant management judgment or estimation.
In such cases, the Company categorizes such assets and liabilities based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety.
The long-term investments presented in the table above do not include the Company’s minority interest investment in a private company, which is accounted for under the cost method.


item2.txt
10-Q contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).
We are a global provider of instruments, subsystems and process control solutions that measure, monitor, deliver, analyze, power and control critical parameters of advanced manufacturing processes to improve process performance and productivity for our customers.
Our primary served markets include semiconductor, industrial technologies, life and health sciences, research and defense.
At the effective time of the ESI Merger and pursuant to the terms and conditions of the merger agreement, each share of ESI’s common stock that was issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the ESI Merger was converted into the right to receive $30.00 in cash, without interest and subject to deduction of any required withholding tax.
Approximately 54% and 42% of our net revenues for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, were from advanced manufacturing applications.
For the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, international net revenues accounted for approximately 53% and 50% of our total net revenues.
right-of-use assets, short-term lease liabilities and long-term lease liabilities.
right-of-use assets are recorded based on the present value of lease payments over the expected remaining fixed lease term.
In calculating the present value of future lease payments, we utilize our incremental borrowing rates, which are the rates incurred to borrow on a collateralized basis over a similar term an amount equal to the lease payments in a similar economic environment.
We have elected to utilize a single blended interest rate based on currencies, geographies and lease terms that comprise the lease portfolio.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
A-16-734039-B, were filed in the District Court, Clark County, Nevada on behalf of a putative class of stockholders of Newport Corporation (“Newport”) for claims related to the merger agreement (“Newport Merger Agreement”) between the Company, Newport, and a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company (“Merger Sub”).
The Court consolidated the actions, and plaintiffs later filed an amended complaint captioned In re Newport Corporation Shareholder Litigation, Case No.


