CSP Inc. ("CSPi" or "CSPI" or "the Company" or "we" or "our") was incorporated in 1968 and is based in Lowell, Massachusetts.
We derive revenue from the sale of integrated hardware and software, third-party service contracts, professional services, managed services, financing of hardware and software, and other services.
The Company is a principal if it controls the good or service before that good or service is transferred to the customer.
We record revenue as gross when the Company is a principal party to the arrangement and net of cost when we are acting as a broker or agent.
Royalty revenue is sales-based and recognized on date of subsequent sale of the product, which occurs on the date of customer shipment.
HPP segment revenue is derived from the sale of integrated hardware and software, maintenance, and other services through the Multicomputer and Myricom product lines.
Myricom revenue is derived from the sale of products, which are comprised of both hardware and embedded software which is essential to the products functionality, and post contract maintenance and support.
Post contract maintenance and support is considered immaterial in the context of the contract and therefore is not a separate performance obligation.
TS Segment revenue is derived from the sale of hardware, software, professional services, third-party service contracts, maintenance contracts, managed services, and financing of hardware and software.
The input method using labor hours expended relative to the total expected hours is used to recognize revenue for professional services.
For items sold separately, including hardware, software, professional services, maintenance contracts, other services, and third-party service contracts, there is no allocation performed as there is one performance obligation.No income taxes were provided as the transaction was a tax-free exchange in the U.K. Our revenues decreased by approximately $0.3 million, or 2%, to $16.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to $16.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
The decrease in revenue is the result of a decrease of $0.1 million in our TS segment, combined with a $0.2 million decrease in our HPP segment.
Operating loss decreased by approximately $0.1 million from an operating loss of $0.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 to an operating loss of $0.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, primarily as a result of a decrease of $0.3 million in operating expenses partially offset by a $0.2 million decrease in gross profit.
Our provision for income tax was a tax benefit of $142 thousand for the three months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to a tax benefit of $160 thousand for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
Our revenues decreased by approximately $0.3 million to $16.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to $16.6 million of revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
The HPP product revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2019 of $1.4 million, decreased by $0.1 million from $1.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018, primarily as a result of a decrease in Myricom product sales.
The decrease in TS segment product revenues of $0.3 million during the period was primarily the result of a decrease in product revenues of $1.5 million in our U.S. division, partially offset by an increase of product revenue of $1.1 million in our U.K. division.