CSP Inc. ("CSPi" or "CSPI" or "the Company" or "we" or "our") was incorporated in 1968 and is based in Lowell, Massachusetts.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which requires an entity to recognize the amount of revenue to which it expects to be entitled for the transfer of promised goods or services to customers.
We derive revenue from the sale of integrated hardware and software, third-party service contracts, professional services, managed services, financing of hardware and software, and other services.
The Company is a principal if it controls the good or service before that good or service is transferred to the customer.
We record revenue as gross when the Company is a principal party to the arrangement and net of cost when we are acting as a broker or agent.
Other services generally include revenue generated through our royalty, extended warranty, multicomputer repair, and maintenance contracts.
Royalty revenue is sales-based and recognized on date of subsequent sale of the product, which occurs on date of customer shipment.
Revenue from extended warranty contracts is recognized evenly over the period of the warranty.
HPP segment revenue is derived from the sale of integrated hardware and software, maintenance, and other services through the Multicomputer and Myricom product lines.
Myricom revenue is derived from the sale of products, which are comprised of both hardware and embedded software which is essential to the products functionality, and post contract maintenance and support.
Post contract maintenance and support is considered immaterial in the context of the contract and therefore is not a separate performance obligation.
TS Segment revenue is derived from the sale of hardware, software, professional services, third-party service contracts, maintenance contracts, managed services, and financing of hardware and software.
The input method using labor hours expended relative to the total expected hours is used to recognize revenue for professional services.See Note 12 of our consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 for effects of initial adoption and Note 3 of our consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 for further details on our revenue recognition policy.
Our revenues increased by approximately $2.4 million, or 14%, to $19.0 million for the three months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to $16.6 million for the three months ended December 31, 2017.
The increase in overall revenue for the three month period ended December 31, 2018 as compared to the prior fiscal year three month period was substantially the result of an approximately $2.8 million increase in our TS segment revenue, partially offset by an approximately $0.4 million decrease in our HPP segment revenue.
The HPP segment revenue for the three month period ended December 31, 2018 was primarily impacted by lower royalties recognized by approximately $0.5 million on high-speed processing boards during the three months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to the three month period ended December 31, 2017.
Our operating income decreased by approximately $150 thousand resulting in operating income of $15 thousand for the three month period ended December 31, 2018 as compared to operating income of $165 thousand for the three months ended December 31, 2017, primarily as a result of increased selling and marketing expenses and increased engineering expenses for the three month period ended December 31, 2018.