Condensed Balance Sheets 
See accompanying notes to the unaudited interim condensed financial statements. 
Page 2 of 19 
Condensed Statements of Operations 
See accompanying notes to the unaudited interim condensed financial statements. 
Condensed Statements of Cash Flows 
See accompanying notes to the unaudited interim condensed financial statements. 
Notes to the Interim Condensed Financial Statements 
Basis of Presentation 
Summary of Business 
Sierra Monitor Corporation addresses the industrial and commercial facilities management market with Industrial Internet of Things (“IIoT”) solutions that target facility automation and facility safety requirements, also referred to as “Connect” and “Protect”. 
The Company’s solutions are also sold to telecommunication companies and their suppliers to manage environmental and security conditions such as temperature, gas, and smoke in remote structures such as local DSL distribution nodes and buildings at cell tower sites. 
The Company was founded in 1978 and its common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board under the symbol “SRMC”. 
Accounting Policies 
 b)Recent Accounting Pronouncements 
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, issued as a new Topic, ASC Topic 606 (ASU 2014-09). The new revenue recognition standard provides a five-step analysis of transactions to determine when and how revenue is recognized. The premise of the standard is that a Company should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. ASU 2014-09 can be adopted by the Company either retrospectively under the full retrospective approach or as a cumulative-effect adjustment as of the date of adoption under the modified retrospective approach. 
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-2, “Leases” (Topic 842), which is intended to improve financial reporting for lease transactions. This ASU will require organizations that lease assets, such as real estate, airplanes and manufacturing equipment, to recognize on their balance sheet the assets and liabilities for the rights to use those assets for the lease term and obligations to make lease payments created by those leases that have terms of greater than 12 months. The recognition, measurement, and presentation of expenses and cash flows arising from a lease by a lessee primarily will depend on its classification as finance or operating lease. This ASU will also require disclosures to help investors and other financial statement users better understand the amount and timing of cash flows arising from leases. These disclosures will include qualitative and quantitative requirements, providing additional information about the amounts recorded in the financial statements. The ASU is effective for the Company for the year ending December 31, 2019 and interim reporting periods within that year, and early adoption is permitted. Management has not yet determined the effect of this ASU on the Company’s financial statements. 
Page 6 of 19 
 c)Employee Stock-Based Compensation 
In April 2016 and in May 2016, the Company’s Board of Directors and the Company’s shareholders, respectively, approved the Company’s 2016 Equity Incentive Plan (the “2016 Stock Plan”) and reserved a total of (i) 279,680 shares, plus (ii) 2,550,320 shares that remained available for issuance under the 2006 Stock Plan immediately prior to its expiration, plus (iii) any shares subject to stock options or restricted stock granted under the 2006 Stock Plan that, on or after the date the 2016 Stock Plan became effective, expired or otherwise terminated without having been exercised in full, or were forfeited to or repurchased by the Company, with the maximum number of shares to be added to the 2016 Stock Plan pursuant to clauses (ii) and (iii) equal to 2,668,320. Options granted under our 2006 Stock Plan and 2016 Stock Plan are at the fair market value of our common stock at the grant date, typically vest ratably over four years, and expire ten years from the grant date. As of March 31, 2018, a total of 1,154,000 shares were issued under the 2016 Stock Plan. 
All share-based payments to employees (incentive stock options) are recognized in the financial statements based on their fair values at the date of grant. The calculated fair value is recognized as expense (net of any capitalization) over the requisite service period, net of estimated forfeitures, using the straight-line method. The Company considers many factors when estimating expected forfeitures, including types of awards, employee class and historical experience. The modified prospective method of application requires compensation expense to be recognized in the financial statements for all unvested stock options beginning in the quarter of award. The cost is based on the grant date fair value of the stock option. Compensation expense recognized in future periods for share-based compensation will be adjusted for the effects of estimated forfeitures. 
For the three-month periods ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, general and administrative expenses included stock based compensation expense of $46,660 and $81,204, respectively, decreasing the Company’s income before income taxes and increasing the Company’s loss before income taxes, respectively, resulting from the recognition of compensation expense associated with employee stock options. There was no material impact on the Company’s basic and diluted net loss per share as a result of recognizing the employee stock-based compensation expense. The Company did not modify the terms of any previously granted stock options during the three-month periods ended March 31, 2018 and 2017. 
Page 7 of 19 
Net Income (Loss) Per Share 
Basic earnings (loss) per share (“EPS”) is computed using the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted EPS is computed using the weighted average number of common and dilutive potential common shares outstanding during the period. Dilutive potential common shares consist of common stock issuable upon exercise of stock options using the treasury stock method. No adjustments to earnings (losses) were made for purposes of per share calculations. 
Concentrations 
Page 8 of 19 
Line of Credit 
The Company maintains a line of credit with its commercial bank in the maximum amount of $2,000,000. No borrowings have been made under the Company’s line of credit during the first three months of fiscal year 2018 and there were no outstanding balances as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017. As of March 31, 2018, the Company was in compliance with the financial covenants of the line of credit. 
Stock Option Grants 
A total of 41,000 stock options were granted during the three-month period ended March 31, 2018. No stock options were granted during the three-month periods ended March 31, 2017. 
Stock Option Exercises and Expirations 
No stock options were exercised and 1,000 options expired during the three-month period ended March 31, 2018. No stock options were exercised and 20,500 options expired during the three-month period ended March 31, 2017. 
Commitments and Contingencies 
Page 9 of 19 
