Condensed Balance Sheets 
See accompanying notes to the unaudited interim condensed financial statements. 
Page 2 of 23 
Condensed Statements of Operations 
See accompanying notes to the unaudited interim condensed financial statements. 
Page 3 of 23 
Statements of Shareholders’ Equity 
Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 
See accompanying notes to the unaudited interim condensed financial statements. 
Page 4 of 23 
Condensed Statements of Cash Flows 
See accompanying notes to the unaudited interim condensed financial statements. 
Page 5 of 23 
Notes to the Interim Condensed Financial Statements 
Basis of Presentation 
Summary of Business 
On March 28, 2019 the Company entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger Agreement”) MSA Safety Incorporated (“MSA”), a global safety equipment manufacturer and MSA’s indirect, wholly owned subsidiary, Gateway Merger Sub, Inc., a California corporation (“Merger Sub”). Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, Merger Sub will merge with and into the Company, with SMC surviving the Merger as an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of MSA (the “Merger”). Upon completion of the Merger, each share of common stock, $0.001 par value per share, of the Company, issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the Merger (the “Effective Time”), other than shares owned or held in treasury by SMC, owned by MSA or Merger Sub, or with respect to which the holder thereof has properly exercised dissenters’ rights, will be cancelled and converted into the right to receive $3.25 in cash per share, without interest and less any required withholding taxes. Under the Merger Agreement, at the Effective Time of the Merger, MSA Safety will assume vested or unvested and outstanding stock options and restricted stock awards granted to Company employees. 
Page 6 of 23 
The Company’s solutions are also sold to telecommunication companies and their suppliers to manage environmental and security conditions such as temperature, gas, and smoke in remote structures such as local DSL distribution nodes and buildings at cell tower sites. 
Accounting Policies 
   a) Revenue Recognition  
The Company recognizes revenue under Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) ASU 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” (Topic 606). ASC 606 requires the recognition of revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the considerations to which the entity expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. 
Page 7 of 23 
FieldServer Products 
Page 8 of 23 
FieldServer services consist of orders for custom development of protocol drivers. Generally, customers place orders for FieldServer products concurrently with their order for protocol drivers. However, if custom development of the protocol driver is required, the product order is not processed until development of the protocol driver is complete. The driver development involves further research after receipt of order, preparation of a scope document to be approved by the customer and then engineering time to write, test and release the driver program. When development of the driver is complete the customer is notified and can proceed with a FieldServer product. Revenues for protocol driver development are recognized at a point in time when the control of the product is transferred to the customer generally occurring upon shipment or delivery of the related product that includes the developed protocol drivers (as noted in FieldServer Products above). 
Discounts and Allowances 
Discounts are applied at time of order entry and sales are processed at net pricing. No allowances are offered to customers. 
The Company records accounts receivable when it has an unconditional right to consideration. Contract liabilities are recorded when cash payments are received or due in advance of performance. Contract liabilities consist of only advance payments, where the Company has unsatisfied performance obligations. Contract liabilities are classified as deferred revenue and included within “Other current liabilities” on the condensed balance sheets. At times, billing may occur subsequent to revenue recognition, resulting in an unbilled receivable which represents a contract asset. The Company does not have any unbilled receivable on the condensed balance sheets. 
Page 9 of 23 
e) Disaggregation of Revenue 
f) Shipping and Handling 
g) Remaining Performance Obligations 
   h) Recent Accounting Pronouncements  
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standard Board (“FASB”) issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (ASC 842), which supersedes the existing guidance for lease accounting, Leases (Topic 840). ASU 2016-02 requires lessees to recognize Right-Of-Use (“ROU”) Asset and Lease Liability for virtually all of their leases (other than leases that meet the definition of a short-term lease). On January 1, 2019, the Company adopted FASB Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 842 using the modified retrospective method for all material leases that existed at or commenced after January 1, 2019. ROU Assets are amortized over their estimated useful life, which represents the full term of the lease. The lease liability is representative of the present value of future payments due under the lease, discounted using the incremental borrowing rate. The lease liability will be increased by accreted interest at the incremental borrowing rate and reduced by future payments made under the lease obligation. On January 1, 2019, the Company recognized right of use (ROU) assets and liabilities of $1,335,148 in the accompanying condensed balance sheets. There was no impact to retained earnings upon the adoption of Topic 842. 
   i) Employee Stock-Based Compensation  
In April 2016 and in May 2016, the Company’s Board of Directors and the Company’s shareholders, respectively, approved the Company’s 2016 Equity Incentive Plan (the “2016 Stock Plan”) and reserved a total of (i) 279,680 shares, plus (ii) 2,550,320 shares that remained available for issuance under the 2006 Stock Plan immediately prior to its expiration, plus (iii) any shares subject to stock options or restricted stock granted under the 2006 Stock Plan that, on or after the date the 2016 Stock Plan became effective, expired or otherwise terminated without having been exercised in full, or were forfeited to or repurchased by the Company, with the maximum number of shares to be added to the 2016 Stock Plan pursuant to clauses (ii) and (iii) equal to 2,668,320. Options granted under our 2006 Stock Plan and 2016 Stock Plan are at the fair market value of our common stock at the grant date, typically vest ratably over four years, and expire ten years from the grant date. As of March 31, 2019, a total of 1,516,000 shares were issued under the 2016 Stock Plan. 
All share-based payments to employees (incentive stock options) are recognized in the financial statements based on their fair values at the date of grant. The calculated fair value is recognized as expense (net of any capitalization) over the requisite service period, net of estimated forfeitures, using the straight-line method. The Company considers many factors when estimating expected forfeitures, including types of awards, employee class and historical experience. The modified prospective method of application requires compensation expense to be recognized in the financial statements for all unvested stock options beginning in the quarter of award. The cost is based on the grant date fair value of the stock option. Compensation expense recognized in future periods for share-based compensation will be adjusted for the effects of estimated forfeitures. 
Page 10 of 23 
For the three-month periods ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, general and administrative expenses included stock based compensation expense of $59,272 and $46,660, respectively, decreasing the Company’s income before income taxes resulting from the recognition of compensation expense associated with employee stock options. There was no material impact on the Company’s basic and diluted net income per share as a result of recognizing the employee stock-based compensation expense. The Company did not modify the terms of any previously granted stock options during the three-month periods ended March 31, 2019 and 2018. 
Inventories 
Net Income Per Share 
Basic earnings per share (“EPS”) is computed using the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted EPS is computed using the weighted average number of common and dilutive potential common shares outstanding during the period. Dilutive potential common shares consist of common stock issuable upon exercise of stock options using the treasury stock method. No adjustments to earnings were made for purposes of per share calculations. 
Page 11 of 23 
Concentrations 
No customer made up more than 10% of accounts receivable at March 31, 2019 and at March 31, 2018. No customer made up more than 10% of net sales for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2018. 
The Company maintains a line of credit with its commercial bank in the maximum amount of $2,000,000. No borrowings have been made under the Company’s line of credit during the first three months of fiscal year 2019 and there were no outstanding balances as of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018. As of March 31, 2019, the Company was in compliance with the financial covenants of the line of credit. 
Operating Lease 
This lease does not provide an implicit rate and we estimated our incremental interest rate to be 5%. We used our estimated incremental borrowing rate and other information available at the lease commencement date in determining the present value of the lease payments. 
No stock options were granted during the three-month period ended March 31, 2019. A total of 41,000 stock options were granted during the three-month period ended March 31, 2018. 
Stock Option Exercises and Expirations 
No stock options were exercised or expired during the three-month period ended March 31, 2019. Also, no stock options were exercised but 1,000 options expired during the three-month period ended March 31, 2018. 
Commitments and Contingencies 
Page 12 of 23 
