Risk Factors of our 2017 10-K. We are one of the world’s largest and most established revenue management and digital monetization providers, primarily serving some of the most well-known communications, information, and content companies around the globe.
We offer revenue management, customer experience, and digital monetization solutions for every stage of the customer lifecycle so service providers can deliver an outstanding customer experience that adapts to their customers’ rapidly changing demands.
We generate approximately 65% of our revenues from the North American cable and satellite markets, approximately 20% of our revenues from global wireline and wireless communication providers, and the remainder from a variety of other verticals, such as financial services, healthcare, logistics, and transportation.
Additionally, during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 we generated approximately 85% of our revenues from the Americas region, approximately 10% of our revenues from the Europe, Middle East and Africa region, and approximately 5% of our revenues from the Asia Pacific region.
Key Impact of U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act As discussed in Note 2 to our Financial Statements, in January 2018 we adopted ASC 606, a single comprehensive model which supersedes nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under U.S. GAAP, utilizing the cumulative effect approach.
Under the new guidance, revenue is recognized when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services.
Certain deferred contract costs that had been included in our client contracts and other current and non-current assets on our Balance Sheet were reclassified and presented separately as a non-current client contract asset, net of related amortization.
Investments in client contracts on our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows have been reclassified to operating activities from investing activities.
Since we adopted ASC 606 using the cumulative effect method, prior period comparative information in our Financial Statements have not been adjusted and continue to be as previously reported.
As discussed in Note 5 to our Financial Statements, on February 28, 2018 we acquired Business Ink, a multi-channel communications company based in Austin, Texas, for approximately $70 million, excluding acquisition-related expenses.
For the third quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2018, Business Ink contributed cloud and related solutions revenues of $13.9 million and $34.9 million, respectively, and was slightly dilutive to our year-to-date operating results when factoring in acquired amortization expense.
Forte Payment Systems, Inc. We acquired Forte for a purchase price of approximately $85 million ($80 million, net of cash acquired), and held back approximately $13 million in cash subject to certain tax filings.
In addition, the stock purchase agreement includes provisions for $18.8 million of potential future earn-out payments over a four-year measurement period.
As we have not completed the valuation analysis and calculations necessary to finalize the required purchase price allocations, which may include allocations to goodwill and other intangible assets such as trademarks and trade names, developed technology, noncompetition agreements, and customer-related assets, the expected impact of the Forte acquisition is based on estimates for the amortization of acquired intangible assets.The interest rate on our 2016 Convertible Notes is fixed, and thus, as it relates to our convertible debt borrowings, we are not exposed to changes in interest rates.
The interest rates under our 2018 Credit Agreement are based upon an adjusted LIBOR rate plus an applicable margin, or an alternate base rate plus an applicable margin.As required by Rule 13a-15(b), our management, including the Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”), conducted an evaluation as of the end of the period covered by this report of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Rule 13a-15(e).Risk Factors in our 2017 Form 10-K.