Item 2.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

This section and other parts of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (“Form 10-Q”) contain forward-looking statements, within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, that involve risks and uncertainties.
Forward-looking statements provide current expectations of future events based on certain assumptions and include any statement that does not directly relate to any historical or current fact.
Forward-looking statements can also be identified by words such as “future,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “expects,” “intends,” “plans,” “predicts,” “will,” “would,” “could,” “can,” “may,” and similar terms.
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and the Company’s actual results may differ significantly from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements.
Factors that might cause such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Part II, Item 1A of this Form 10-Q under the heading “Risk Factors,” which are incorporated herein by reference.
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 29, 2018 (the “2018 Form 10-K”) filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) and the condensed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q.
The Company assumes no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason, except as required by law.
Available Information


Overview and Highlights

The Company designs, manufactures and markets mobile communication and media devices and personal computers, and sells a variety of related software, services, accessories and third-party digital content and applications.
The Company’s products and services include iPhone, Mac, iPad, Apple Watch, AirPods, Apple TV, HomePod, a portfolio of consumer and professional software applications, iOS, macOS, watchOS and tvOS operating systems, iCloud, Apple Pay and a variety of accessory, service and support offerings.
The Company sells and delivers digital content and applications through the iTunes Store, App Store, Mac App Store, TV App Store, Book Store and Apple Music (collectively “Digital Content and Services”).
The Company sells its products worldwide through its retail stores, online stores and direct sales force, as well as through third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers and resellers.
In addition, the Company sells a variety of third-party Apple-compatible products, including application software and various accessories, through its retail and online stores.
The foregoing statement regarding the Company’s expected total gross margin percentage in the second quarter of 2019 is forward-looking and could differ from actual results.
The Company’s future gross margins can be impacted by multiple factors including, but not limited to, those set forth in Part II, Item 1A of this Form 10-Q under the heading “Risk Factors” and those described in this paragraph.
In general, the Company believes gross margins will be subject to volatility and remain under downward pressure due to a variety of factors, including: continued industry-wide global product pricing pressures and product pricing actions that the Company may take in response to such pressures; increased competition; the Company’s ability to effectively stimulate demand for certain of its products; compressed product life cycles; potential increases in the cost of components and outside manufacturing services; the Company’s ability to manage product quality and warranty costs effectively; shifts in the mix of products and services, or in the geographic, currency or channel mix; fluctuations in exchange rates; and costs associated with the Company’s frequent introductions and transitions of products and services.
Operating Expenses



Research and Development


Selling, General and Administrative

The growth in selling, general and administrative expense during the first quarter of 2019 compared to the same quarter in 2018 was driven primarily by increases in professional fees and headcount-related expenses.
Provision for Income Taxes



The Company’s effective tax rate for the first quarter of 2019 was lower than the statutory federal income tax rate of 21% due primarily to the lower tax rate on foreign earnings and tax benefits from share-based compensation.
The Company’s effective tax rate for the first quarter of 2019 was lower compared to the same quarter in 2018 due to higher taxes in 2018 as a result of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Act”) and a lower statutory federal income tax rate in 2019, partially offset by higher taxes on foreign earnings in 2019.
The following discussion of risk factors contains forward-looking statements.
