Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations.
All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated.
The comparative information has not been restated and continues to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for those periods.
The most significant impact was the recognition, on a discounted basis, of right-of-use (ROU) assets totaling approximately $31.9 million and lease liabilities totaling approximately $34.2 million under non-cancelable operating leases as of January 1, 2019 and the related new required disclosures.
The standard did not have an impact on the Company's consolidated income statements or consolidated statements of cash flows.
The amendments in this update align the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software (and hosting arrangements that include an internal-use software license).
Certain customers request different system configurations, based on standard options or accessories that the Company offers.
Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of promised products or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration the Company expects to receive in exchange for those products or services.
The Company regularly enters into contracts that can include various combinations of products and services, which are generally capable of being distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations.
In such situations, contract values are allocated to each performance obligation based on its relative estimated standalone selling price.The “Segment Operating Results” section that follows describes the contributions of each of our business segments to our consolidated revenue and earnings from operations.
While the backlog is subject to order cancellations, we have not historically experienced a significant amount of order cancellations.
Consolidated revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2019, increased by 6.5 percent year over year, from $452.7 million in the second quarter of 2018 to $482.0 million in the second quarter of 2019.Additionally, we cannot be certain or give any assurance that any actions taken to reduce known risks and uncertainties will be effective.
We derive significant revenue from contracts or subcontracts funded by United States government agencies.
A significant reduction in the purchase of our products by these agencies or contractors for these agencies would have a material adverse effect on our business.
The funding of contracts awarded to us depends on the overall United States government budget and appropriations process, which is beyond our control.
A failure to pass budget appropriations, adopt continuing funding resolutions or other budgetary decisions limiting or delaying federal government spending, could reduce government spending on our products and services and have a material adverse effect on our business and our operating results.