fls.txt



item1.txt
In the opinion of management, these statements have been prepared on the same basis as the audited consolidated financial statements and include all adjustments, consisting of only normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of the Company’s consolidated financial position and results of operations for the interim periods.
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations.
All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated.
Effective January 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASU 2014-09 and all the related amendments ("new revenue standard" or "ASC 606") using the modified retrospective method to those contracts not yet completed as of January 1, 2018.
The comparative information has not been restated and continues to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for those periods.
This new standard has been applied on a modified retrospective transition basis with an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the amount of approximately $80.0 million as of January 1, 2018.
Certain customers request different system configurations, based on standard options or accessories that the Company offers.
Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of promised products or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration the Company expects to receive in exchange for those products or services.
The Company regularly enters into contracts that can include various combinations of products and services, which are generally capable of being distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations.
In such situations, contract values are allocated to each performance obligation based on its relative estimated standalone selling price.
The vast majority of the Company's revenues are recognized at a point in time when goods are transferred to a customer.
However, for certain contracts that include highly customized components, if performance does not create an asset with an alternative use and termination for convenience clauses provide an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date, revenue is recognized over time as the performance obligation is satisfied.
Shipping and handling costs associated with outbound freight after control over a product has transferred to a customer are accounted for as a fulfillment cost and are included in cost of goods sold.
Revenue is recognized net of allowances for returns and net of taxes collected from customers which are subsequently remitted to governmental authorities.
The timing of revenue recognition, billings and cash collections results in billed accounts receivable, unbilled receivables and deferred revenue and advance payments from customers on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.


item2.txt
Consequently, year over year comparisons for any given quarter may not be indicative of comparisons using longer time periods.
Excluding the divestiture of the Consumer and SMB Security businesses, we currently expect total annual revenue for 2018 to be higher than 2017 revenue and reported revenue including the divested businesses to be about flat or slightly down when compared to prior year.
International sales accounted for 44.7 percent and 46.0 percent of total revenue for the quarters ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Overall, we anticipate that revenue from international sales will continue to comprise a significant percentage of total revenue.
Cost of goods sold for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 were $212.8 million and $654.7 million, compared to cost of goods sold for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 of $241.8 million and $684.7 million, respectively.
Gross profit for the quarter ended September 30, 2018, was $222.1 million compared to $222.9 million for the same quarter last year.
Gross profit for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was $672.5 million compared to $620.9 million for the nine month period ended September 30, 2017.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Additionally, we cannot be certain or give any assurance that any actions taken to reduce known risks and uncertainties will be effective.
Continued and further reductions in military spending could have a material adverse effect on our results from operations.
Our expense levels are based, in part, on our expectations regarding future sales and these expenses are largely fixed in the short term.
Some expenses, such as those related to research and development activities, would likely be maintained in the event of a sales downturn in order to maintain and enhance our long-term competitiveness.
Accordingly, we may not be able to reduce our costs in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected shortfall between forecasted and actual sales.
We amortize certain of these intangibles over their anticipated useful life and review goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually or more frequently if warranted by events.
To date we have not experienced any impairment of our intangible assets, but there can be no assurance that we will not experience such impairment in the future.


