fls.txt



item1.txt
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations.
All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated.
Effective January 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASU 2014-09 and all the related amendments ("new revenue standard" or "ASC 606") using the modified retrospective method to those contracts not yet completed as of January 1, 2018.
The comparative information has not been restated and continues to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for those periods.
Certain customers request different system configurations, based on standard options or accessories that the Company offers.
Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of promised products or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration the Company expects to receive in exchange for those products or services.
The Company regularly enters into contracts that can include various combinations of products and services, which are generally capable of being distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations.
In such situations, contract values are allocated to each performance obligation based on its relative estimated standalone selling price.
The vast majority of the Company's revenues are recognized at a point in time when goods are transferred to a customer.
However, for certain contracts that include highly customized components, if performance does not create an asset with an alternative use and termination for convenience clauses provide an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date, revenue is recognized over time as the performance obligation is satisfied.
Shipping and handling costs associated with outbound freight after control over a product has transferred to a customer are accounted for as a fulfillment cost and are in included in cost of goods sold.
Revenue is recognized net of allowances for returns and net of taxes collected from customers which are subsequently remitted to governmental authorities.
Contract assets and liabilities are reported on a contract-by-contract basis.
Remaining performance obligations related to ASC 606 represent the aggregate transaction price allocated to performance obligations with an original contract term greater than one year which are fully or partially unsatisfied at the end of the period.
The Company has elected to exclude contracts with customers with an original term of one year or less from remaining performance obligations while these contracts are included within backlog.
As of March 31, 2018, the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations was approximately $50.3 million.


item2.txt
The “Segment Operating Results” section that follows describes the contributions of each of our business segments to our consolidated revenue and earnings from operations.
While the backlog is subject to order cancellations, we have not historically experienced a significant number of order cancellations.
Consequently, year over year comparisons for any given quarter may not be indicative of comparisons using longer time periods.
International sales accounted for 48.7 percent and 45.5 percent of total revenue for the quarters ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Cost of goods sold for the three months ended March 31, 2018 were $221.7 million, compared to cost of goods sold for the three months ended March 31, 2017 of $215.5 million.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Additionally, we cannot be certain or give any assurance that any actions taken to reduce known risks and uncertainties will be effective.
Continued and further reductions in military spending could have a material adverse effect on our results from operations.
Our expense levels are based, in part, on our expectations regarding future sales and these expenses are largely fixed in the short term.
Some expenses, such as those related to research and development activities, would likely be maintained in the event of a sales downturn in order to maintain and enhance the long-term competitiveness of the Company.
Accordingly, we may not be able to reduce our costs in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected shortfall between forecasted and actual sales.
We amortize certain of these intangibles over their anticipated useful life and review goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually or more frequently if warranted by events.
To date we have not experienced any impairment of our intangible assets, but there can be no assurance that we will not experience such impairment in the future.
We are subject to various legal proceedings and claims that have arisen out of the ordinary conduct of our business and are not yet resolved, and additional claims may arise in the future.


