fls.txt



item1.txt
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations.
All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated.
The amendments in this update align the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software (and hosting arrangements that include an internal-use software license).
Certain customers request different system configurations, based on standard options or accessories that the Company offers.
Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of promised products or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration the Company expects to receive in exchange for those products or services.
The Company regularly enters into contracts that can include various combinations of products and services, which are generally capable of being distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations.
In such situations, contract values are allocated to each performance obligation based on its relative estimated standalone selling price.
The vast majority of the Company's revenues are recognized at a point in time when goods are transferred to a customer.
However, for certain contracts that include highly customized components, if performance does not create an asset with an alternative use and termination for convenience clauses provide an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date, revenue is recognized over time as the performance obligation is satisfied.
Shipping and handling costs associated with outbound freight after control over a product has transferred to a customer are accounted for as a fulfillment cost and are included in cost of goods sold.
Revenue is recognized net of allowances for returns and net of taxes collected from customers which are subsequently remitted to governmental authorities.
The Company's products are sold with warranty provisions that require it to remedy deficiencies in quality or performance of the Company's products over a specified period of time, generally twelve to twenty-four months, at no cost to its customers.
Warranty liabilities are established at the time that revenue is recognized at levels that represent the Company's estimate of the costs that will be incurred to fulfill those warranty requirements.
Provisions for estimated losses on sales or related receivables are recorded when identified.
Service revenue is deferred and recognized over the contract period, as is the case for extended warranty contracts, or recognized as services are provided.
See Note 19, "Operating Segments and Related Information - Revenue and Long-Lived Assets by Geographic Area" for information related to the Company’s revenues disaggregated by significant geographical region and operating segment.


item2.txt
While the backlog is subject to order cancellations, we have not historically experienced a significant amount of order cancellations.
Consequently, year over year comparisons for any given quarter may not be indicative of comparisons using longer time periods.
Gross profit for the quarter ended March 31, 2019, was $233.7 million compared to $217.9 million for the same quarter last year.
Gross margin, defined as gross profit divided by revenue, increased from 49.6 percent in the first quarter of 2018 to 52.5 percent in the first quarter of 2019.
Research and development expenses for the first quarter of 2019 totaled $48.0 million, compared to $44.6 million in the first quarter of 2018.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Additionally, we cannot be certain or give any assurance that any actions taken to reduce known risks and uncertainties will be effective.
We derive significant revenue from contracts or subcontracts funded by United States government agencies.
A significant reduction in the purchase of our products by these agencies or contractors for these agencies would have a material adverse effect on our business.
The funding of contracts awarded to us depends on the overall United States government budget and appropriations process, which is beyond our control.
A failure to pass budget appropriations, adopt continuing funding resolutions or other budgetary decisions limiting or delaying federal government spending, could reduce government spending on our products and services and have a material adverse effect on our business and our operating results.
Continued and further reductions in military spending could have a material adverse effect on our results from operations.
Our expense levels are based, in part, on our expectations regarding future sales and these expenses are largely fixed in the short term.
Some expenses, such as those related to research and development activities, would likely be maintained in the event of a sales downturn in order to maintain and enhance our long-term competitiveness.


