These risks, uncertainties and other factors include, but are not limited to, risks relating to product demand and market acceptance; economic conditions; the impact of competitive products and pricing; product quality problems or product recalls; capacity and supply difficulties or constraints; coal mining exposures reserves; failure of an indemnification for environmental liability; exchange rate fluctuations; commodity price fluctuations; the effect of the Company's accounting policies; labor disputes; restructuring costs in excess of expectations; pension plan asset returns less than assumed; uncertainties related to political or regulatory changes; the risk that expected benefits, synergies and growth prospects of the Company’s completed acquisition of IXYS Corporation (“IXYS”) may not be achieved in a timely manner, or at all; the risk that IXYS’ business may not be successfully integrated with the Company’s; the risk that the Company and IXYS will be unable to retain and hire key personnel; and the risk that disruption from the acquisition may adversely affect the Company’s or IXYS’ business and their respective relationships with customers, suppliers or employees; and other risks which may be detailed in the Company's other Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including those set forth under Item 1A.In addition to the factors impacting comparative results for operating income discussed above, income before income taxes was impacted by increased unfavorable foreign exchange losses of $3.8 million primarily due to fluctuations in the Euro and Mexican peso against the U.S. dollar and increased interest expense of $2.5 million associated with the increased borrowings for the IXYS acquisition.
Additionally, dividends paid increased $3.5 million from $15.0 million in 2017 to $18.5 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018.
Capital expenditures were $40.3 million, representing an increase of $12.0 million compared to 2017.
Operating cash inflows are largely attributable to sales of the Company’s products.
As of June 30, 2018, the Company did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined under SEC rules.
The Company did not repurchase any shares of its common stock during the second quarter of 2018.
Income before income taxes for the first six months of 2018 was $97.0 million, or 11.1% of net sales compared to $104.8 million, or 17.5% of net sales, for the first six months of 2017.
Net cash provided by financing activities was $196.2 million for the six months ended 2018 compared to net cash used in financing activities of $10.1 million for the six months ended 2017.
In addition to the quarterly principal payments, the Company paid $35.0 million of principal on the term loan during the three months ended June 30, 2018.
As of June 30, 2018, the Company did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined under SEC rules.
The Automotive segment net sales increased $29.0 million, or 12.9%, in the first six months of 2018 compared to the first six months of 2017 due to increased volume across all businesses with the commercial vehicle and sensor businesses having the most growth as well as favorable changes in foreign exchange rates of $11.9 million.
The Company has not yet completed its assessment and therefore has not yet elected an accounting policy.
The guidance indicates that either accounting for deferred taxes related to GILTI inclusions or treating any taxes on GILTI inclusions as period cost are both acceptable methods subject to an accounting policy election.
Total operating expenses as a percent of net sales increased from 22.9% for the first six months of 2017 to 25.2% for the first six months of 2018 primarily due to the higher amortization expense and acquisition-related and integration charges noted above.
The second quarter of 2018 includes $28.7 million of non-segment charges.
The new credit agreement consisted of an unsecured revolving credit facility of $575.0 million and an unsecured term loan credit facility of up to $125.0 million.
We are in the process of assessing the design of the future lease process and drafting a policy to address the new standard requirements.
Net sales in the Industrial segment increased $5.1 million or 18.7% due to volume growth across all the segment’s business units.IXYS Corporation operated with a different internal control environment than that of Littelfuse, Inc.