item1.txt
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Blackbaud, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries.
ASU 2016-02 requires lessees to record most leases on their balance sheet but recognize expenses in the income statement in a manner similar to previous guidance.
The way in which entities classify leases determines how to recognize lease-related revenue and expense.
Additionally, we elected not to apply the recognition requirements of the new lease accounting standard to short-term leases.
Adopting ASU 2016-02 had a material impact on our consolidated balance sheet as of January 1, 2019, as we recognized $121.6 million of lease liabilities and $113.4 million of right-of-use ("ROU") assets for those leases classified as operating leases.
Except for the accounting policy added for leases below as a result of adopting ASU 2016-02, there have been no changes to our significant accounting policies described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, filed with the SEC on February 20, 2019, that have had a material impact on our consolidated financial statement.
Operating leases are included in operating lease ROU assets, accrued expense and other current liabilities, and operating lease liabilities, net of current portion in our consolidated balance sheet as of March 31, 2019.
ROU assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
Operating lease ROU assets and liabilities are recognized at the commencement date based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term.
As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments.
The operating lease ROU asset also includes any initial direct costs and lease payments made and excludes lease incentives.
Our lease terms may include options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise that option.


item2.txt
The result for our customers is decentralized daily purchasing while implementing and monitoring the right controls in a scalable way, enabling them to realize benefits such as reductions in procurement cycle time, increased savings through supplier discounts, and working capital and cash flow improvements.
We continue to progress in our early adopter program for our new Cloud Solution for Faith Communities with our first wave of early adopter customers now live on our Church Management Solution using it to run their day-to-day operations in close collaboration with our product teams.
The increase in total revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018, was primarily driven by growth in recurring revenue as we continue to see positive demand from customers across our portfolio of cloud-based solutions.
The acquisitions of Reeher and YourCause, which occurred after March 31, 2018, also contributed to the increases in recurring and total revenue.
As expected, one-time services and other revenue declined $5.6 million during the three months ended March 31, 2019 due to our continued shift in focus towards selling cloud-based subscription solutions.
In general, our cloud-based solutions include integrated analytics, training and payments services, and require less implementation services and little to no customization services.
We are also selling more subscription-based contracts for professional services and services embedded in our renewable cloud-based solution contracts.
As a result, we continue to expect one-time services and other revenue to decline.
Income from operations decreased during the three months ended March 31, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018.
The positive impact of growth in total revenue driven by recurring subscriptions was offset primarily by investments we are making in our sales organization and innovation, which we expect to continue in 2019 and beyond.
Increases in stock-based compensation of $2.6 million, employee severance of $2.5 million, rent expense of $1.6 million, restructuring costs of $1.1 million and amortization of intangible assets from business combinations of $1.1 million also negatively impacted income from operations during the three months ended March 31, 2019.
The increase in stock-based compensation expense was primarily driven by an increase in the grant date fair value of our annual equity awards granted to employees during the first quarter of 2019, when compared to the grant date fair value of the awards granted during the same period in 2018.
Our recurring revenue contracts are generally for a term of three years at contract inception with one to three-year renewals thereafter.
We anticipate a continued decrease in maintenance contract renewals as we transition our solution portfolio and maintenance customers from a perpetual license-based model to a cloud-based subscription delivery model.
In the long term, we also anticipate an increase in recurring subscription contract renewals as we continue focusing on innovation, quality and the integration of our cloud-based solutions, which we believe will provide value-adding capabilities to better address our customers' needs.
Due primarily to these factors, we believe a recurring revenue customer retention measure that combines recurring subscription, maintenance and service customer contracts provides a better representation of our customers' overall behavior.
For the twelve months ended March 31, 2019, approximately 92% of our customers with recurring revenue contracts were retained.


item3.txt



item4.txt



