item1.txt
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Blackbaud, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) ("ASU 2014-09"), which outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers.
ASU 2014-09 replaces most previous revenue recognition guidance in GAAP and requires the recognition of revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services.
The standard also provides guidance on the recognition of costs related to obtaining and fulfilling customer contracts.
We adopted ASU 2014-09 as of January 1, 2018 utilizing the full retrospective method of transition, which requires that the standard be applied to all periods presented.
The impact of adopting ASU 2014-09 on our total revenues for 2017 and 2016 was not material.
The primary impacts of adopting ASU 2014-09 relate to the deferral of incremental commission and other costs of obtaining contracts with customers and the increase to the amortization period for those costs.
Previously, we deferred only direct and incremental commission costs to obtain a contract and amortized those costs over the contract term, generally three years, as the revenue was recognized.
Under the new standard, we defer all incremental commission and related fringe benefit costs to obtain a contract and amortize these costs in a manner that aligns with the expected period of benefit.
We utilized the 'portfolio approach' practical expedient in ASC 606-10-10-4, which allows entities to apply the guidance to a portfolio of contracts with similar characteristics because the effects on the financial statements of this approach would not differ materially from applying the guidance to individual contracts.
Using the 'portfolio approach' and taking into consideration our customer contracts, our technology and other factors, we determined the expected period of benefit to be five years.


item2.txt
We will continue to transition our business to predominantly serve customers through a subscription-based cloud delivery model, enabling lower cost of entry, greater scalability and lower total cost of ownership to our customers.
We are making investments to increase the effectiveness of our sales organization, with a focus on enabling our expanded sales teams with the processes and tools to accelerate our revenue growth and improve productivity and effectiveness.
Our sales account executives now lead with a total-solution selling strategy, which we believe results in more products per customer, higher ASP's, and increased customer retention over the long-term.
We are guided by our strategic acquisition criteria for considering attractive assets that expand our total addressable market ("TAM"), provide entry into new and near adjacencies, accelerate our shift to the cloud, accelerate revenue growth, are accretive to margins and present synergistic opportunities.
During 2017, in an effort to further our organizational objectives including, improved operating efficiency, customer outcomes and employee satisfaction, we also initiated a multi-year plan to consolidate and relocate some of our existing offices to highly modern and more collaborative workspaces with short-term financial commitments.
We have incurred cumulative before-tax restructuring costs of $1.6 million related to this plan as of March 31, 2018.
The increase in total revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017, was primarily driven by growth in recurring revenue as we continue to see strong demand from customers across our portfolio of cloud-based solutions.
One-time services and other revenue declined during the three months ended March 31, 2018 due to our continued shift in focus towards selling cloud-based subscription solutions.
In general, our cloud-based solutions include integrated analytic, training and payments services, and require less implementation services.
As a result, we expect one-time services and other revenue to continue to be negatively impacted.
In addition, we have also used promotions and discounts for our consulting services as incentives to accelerate the migration of our existing customer base from on-premises solutions toward our cloud-based subscriptions.
Income from operations increased during the three months ended March 31, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017.
The positive impact of growth in total revenue driven by recurring subscriptions outpaced the related costs and was partially offset primarily by investments we are making in our sales organization and customer success program and, to a lesser extent, increases in amortization of intangible assets from business combinations of $1.1 million and restructuring costs of $0.8 million.
Our recurring revenue contracts are generally for a term of three years at contract inception with one to three-year renewals thereafter.
We anticipate a continued decrease in maintenance contract renewals as we transition our solution portfolio and maintenance customers from a perpetual license-based model to a cloud-based subscription delivery model.
In the long term, we also anticipate an increase in recurring subscription contract renewals as we continue focusing on innovation, quality and the integration of our cloud-based solutions, which we believe will provide value-adding capabilities to better address our customers' needs.
Due primarily to these factors, we believe a recurring revenue customer retention measure that combines recurring subscription, maintenance and service customer contracts provides an accurate representation of our customers' overall behavior.
For the twelve months ended March 31, 2018, approximately 93% of our customers with recurring revenue contracts were retained.


item3.txt



item4.txt



