item1.txt
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) ("ASU 2014-09"), which outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers.
ASU 2014-09 replaces most previous revenue recognition guidance in GAAP and requires the recognition of revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
The standard also provides guidance on the recognition of costs related to obtaining and fulfilling customer contracts.
The primary impacts of adopting ASU 2014-09 relate to the deferral of incremental commission and other costs of obtaining contracts with customers and the increase to the amortization period for those costs.
Previously, we deferred only direct and incremental commission costs to obtain a contract and amortized those costs over the contract term, generally three years, as the revenue was recognized.
Under the new standard, we defer all incremental commission and related fringe benefit costs to obtain a contract and amortize these costs in a manner that aligns with the expected period of benefit.
We utilized the 'portfolio approach' practical expedient in ASC 606-10-10-4, which allows entities to apply the guidance to a portfolio of contracts with similar characteristics because the effects on the financial statements of this approach would not differ materially from applying the guidance to individual contracts.
Using the 'portfolio approach' and taking into consideration our customer contracts, our technology and other factors, we determined the expected period of benefit to be five years.
Except for the accounting policies for revenue recognition and deferred commissions (herein referred to as "costs of obtaining contracts") that were updated as a result of adopting ASU 2014-09, there have been no changes to our significant accounting policies described in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed with the SEC on February 20, 2018, that have had a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
Recurring revenue represents stand-ready performance obligations in which we are making our solutions or services available to our customers continuously over time or the value of the contract renews.
Therefore, recurring revenue is generally recognized over time on a ratable basis over the contract term, beginning on the date that the solution or service is made available to the customer.
Our recurring revenue contracts are generally for a term of three years at contract inception with one to three-year renewals thereafter, billed annually in advance and non-cancelable.


item2.txt
We will continue to transition our business to predominantly serve customers through a subscription-based cloud delivery model, enabling lower cost of entry, greater scalability and lower total cost of ownership to our customers.
We are making investments to increase the effectiveness of our sales organization, with a focus on enabling our sales teams with the processes and tools to accelerate our revenue growth and improve productivity.
selling strategy by vertical, focused on recurring revenue and driving more products per customer, higher ASP's, and increased customer retention over the long-term.
We believe that attaching training, analytics, and payments to a deal improves the cloud experience, drives customer outcomes, improves retention, and increases customer lifetime value.
We are guided by our strategic acquisition criteria for considering attractive assets that expand our total addressable market ("TAM"), provide entry into new and near adjacencies, accelerate our shift to the cloud, accelerate revenue growth, are accretive to margins and present synergistic opportunities.
During 2017, in an effort to further our organizational objectives including, improved operating efficiency, customer outcomes and employee satisfaction, we initiated a multi-year plan to consolidate and relocate some of our existing offices outside of Charleston, South Carolina to highly modern and more collaborative workspaces with short-term financial commitments.
We have incurred cumulative before-tax restructuring costs of $5.3 million related to this plan as of June 30, 2018.
The increases in total revenue during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, when compared to the same periods in 2017, were primarily driven by growth in recurring revenue as we continue to see strong demand from customers across our portfolio of cloud-based solutions.
The inclusion of JustGiving and Reeher also contributed to the increases in recurring and total revenue.
One-time services and other revenue declined during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 due to our continued shift in focus towards selling cloud-based subscription solutions.
In general, our cloud-based solutions include integrated analytic, training and payments services, and require less implementation services and little to no customization services.
As a result, we expect one-time services and other revenue to continue to be negatively impacted.
In addition, we have also used promotions and discounts for our consulting services as incentives to accelerate the migration of our existing customer base from on-premises solutions toward our cloud-based subscriptions.
Income from operations decreased during the three months ended June 30, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017.
The positive impact of growth in total revenue driven by recurring subscriptions was offset primarily by investments we are making in our sales organization, which we expect will increase in the second half of 2018, and customer success program and, to a lesser extent, increases in restructuring costs of $3.7 million, stock-based compensation expense of $3.0 million, net acquisition-related expenses and integration costs of $1.6 million and amortization of intangible assets from business combinations of $1.1 million.
Our recurring revenue contracts are generally for a term of three years at contract inception with one to three-year renewals thereafter.
We anticipate a continued decrease in maintenance contract renewals as we transition our solution portfolio and maintenance customers from a perpetual license-based model to a cloud-based subscription delivery model.


item3.txt



item4.txt



