fls.txt



item1.txt
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Company’s unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and all its wholly-owned and majority-owned subsidiaries, after elimination of intercompany transactions and balances.
The Company’s consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended June 29, 2018, are included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on August 3, 2018.
The Company operates and reports financial results on a fiscal year of 52 or 53 weeks ending on the Friday closest to June 30.
The fiscal quarters ended September 28, 2018, June 29, 2018, and September 29, 2017, are also referred to herein as the “September 2018 quarter ”, the “June 2018 quarter” and the “September 2017 quarter”, respectively.
These ASUs amend a number of aspects of lease accounting, including requiring lessees to recognize operating leases with a term greater than one year on their balance sheet as a right-of-use asset and corresponding lease liability, measured at the present value of the lease payments.
The Company is in the process of assessing the impact of these ASUs on its condensed consolidated financial statements.
The Company is in the process of assessing the impact of this ASU on its condensed consolidated financial statements.
The Company has completed the adoption and implemented policies, processes and controls to support the new standard’s measurement and disclosure requirements.
The impact of applying the new accounting standard on the Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements for the September 2018 quarter was not material.
PIK income computed at the contractual rate is accrued into Interest income in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations and added to the carrying value of the Investment in debt security on its Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The loans made under the Revolving Credit Facility will bear interest at a rate of LIBOR plus a variable margin that will be determined based on the corporate credit rating of the Company.


item2.txt
The following is a discussion of the financial condition, changes in financial condition, and results of operations for our fiscal quarters ended September 28, 2018, June 29, 2018 and September 29, 2017, referred to herein as the “September 2018 quarter,” the “June 2018 quarter,” and the “September 2017 quarter,” respectively.
We operate and report financial results on a fiscal year of 52 or 53 weeks ending on the Friday closest to June 30.
Unless the context indicates otherwise, as used herein, the terms “we,” “us,” “Seagate,” the “Company” and “our” refer to Seagate Technology plc, an Irish public limited company, and its subsidiaries.
cyber-attacks or other data breaches that disrupt the Company’s operations or result in the dissemination of proprietary or confidential information and cause reputational harm, and the cybersecurity threats and vulnerabilities associated with the Company’s infrastructure updates to its information technology systems.
An analysis of our financial results comparing the September 2018 quarter to the June 2018 quarter and the September 2017 quarter.
An analysis of changes in our balance sheet and cash flows, and discussion of our financial condition including the credit quality of our investment portfolio and potential sources of liquidity.
Our HDD products are designed for mission critical and nearline applications in enterprise servers and storage systems; edge compute applications, where our products are designed primarily for desktop and mobile computing; and edge non-compute applications, where our products are designed for a wide variety of end user devices such as portable external storage systems, surveillance systems, digital video recorders (“DVRs”), network-attached storage (“NAS”) and gaming consoles.


item3.txt
Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our cash investment portfolio including investment in debt security in Toshiba Memory Corporation (“TMC”, formerly known as “K.K.
As of September 28, 2018, we had no impairment for our investment in debt security and we had no available-for-sale debt securities that had been in a continuous unrealized loss position for a period greater than 12 months.
The table below presents principal amounts and related weighted-average interest rates by year of maturity for our investment portfolio and debt obligations as of September 28, 2018.


item4.txt
There were no significant changes to our internal control over financial reporting due to the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard.


part2.txt
For a discussion of legal proceedings, see “Part I, Item 1.


