fls.txt



item1.txt
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Company’s unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and all its wholly-owned and majority-owned subsidiaries, after elimination of intercompany transactions and balances.
The Company’s consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended June 29, 2018, are included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K, as filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on August 3, 2018.
The Company operates and reports financial results on a fiscal year of 52 or 53 weeks ending on the Friday closest to June 30.
The fiscal quarters ended December 28, 2018, September 28, 2018, and December 29, 2017, are also referred to herein as the “December 2018 quarter”, the “September 2018 quarter” and the “December 2017 quarter”, respectively.
These ASUs amend a number of aspects of lease accounting, including requiring lessees to recognize operating leases with a term greater than one year on their balance sheet as a right-of-use asset and corresponding lease liability, measured at the present value of the lease payments.
The Company is in the process of assessing the impact of these ASUs on its condensed consolidated financial statements.
The Company is in the process of assessing the impact of this ASU on its condensed consolidated financial statements.
The Company has completed the adoption and implemented policies, processes and controls to support the new standard’s measurement and disclosure requirements.
The impact of applying the new accounting standard on the Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements for the three and six months ended December 28, 2018 was not material.
PIK income computed at the contractual rate is accrued into Interest income in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations and added to the carrying value of the Investment in debt security on its Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The loans made under the Revolving Credit Facility will bear interest at a rate of LIBOR plus a variable margin that will be determined based on the corporate credit rating of the Company.


item2.txt
The following is a discussion of the financial condition, changes in financial condition, and results of operations for our fiscal quarters ended December 28, 2018, September 28, 2018 and December 29, 2017, referred to herein as the “December 2018 quarter,” the “September 2018 quarter,” and the “December 2017 quarter,” respectively.
Unless the context indicates otherwise, as used herein, the terms “we,” “us,” “Seagate,” the “Company” and “our” refer to Seagate Technology plc, an Irish public limited company, and its subsidiaries.
cyber-attacks or other data breaches that disrupt the Company’s operations or result in the dissemination of proprietary or confidential information and cause reputational harm, and the cybersecurity threats and vulnerabilities associated with the Company’s infrastructure updates to its information technology systems.
An analysis of our financial results comparing the December 2018 quarter to the September 2018 quarter and the December 2017 quarter.
Our HDD products are designed for mission critical and nearline applications in enterprise servers and storage systems; edge compute applications, where our products are designed primarily for desktop and mobile computing; and edge non-compute applications, where our products are designed for a wide variety of end user devices such as portable external storage systems, surveillance systems, digital video recorders (“DVRs”), network-attached storage (“NAS”) and gaming consoles.
We paid $499 million towards the maturity of our 2018 Senior Notes, $180 million in dividends and repurchased approximately 3 million of our ordinary shares for $136 million.
Revenue in the December 2018 quarter decreased by $199 million from the December 2017 quarter primarily due to price erosion.
Revenue for the six months ended December 28, 2018 increased by $160 million from the six months ended December 29, 2017 as a result of an increase in exabytes shipped due to higher demand for our high capacity HDD product portfolio, partially offset by price erosion.


item3.txt
Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our cash investment portfolio including investment in debt security in Toshiba Memory Corporation (“TMC”, formerly known as “K.K.
The table below presents principal amounts and related weighted-average interest rates by year of maturity for our investment portfolio and debt obligations as of December 28, 2018.
From time to time, we may enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage exposure related to certain foreign currency commitments and anticipated foreign currency denominated expenditures.


item4.txt
Effective February 5, 2019, Gianluca Romano, the Company’s Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer will also serve as principal accounting officer replacing Geraldine Hottier-Fayon who had been serving as the Company’s interim principal accounting officer.


part2.txt
For a discussion of legal proceedings, see “Part I, Item 1.


