fls.txt
Generally, the inclusion of the words “anticipate,” “believe,” “expect,” “future,” “intend,” “estimate,” “will,” “plans,” or the negative of such terms and similar expressions identify statements that constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that are intended to come within the safe harbor protection provided by those sections.


item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited consolidated condensed financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring accruals) considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included, unless otherwise disclosed.
Operating results for the three months ended July 1, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2019.
001-32253), which was filed on May 30, 2018 (the “2018 Annual Report”).
EnerSys (the “Company,”) reports interim financial information for 13-week periods, except for the first quarter, which always begins on April 1, and the fourth quarter, which always ends on March 31.
The four quarters in fiscal 2018 ended on July 2, 2017, October 1, 2017, December 31, 2017, and March 31, 2018, respectively.
All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.
2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)” providing guidance on revenue from contracts with customers that supersedes most current revenue recognition guidance, including industry-specific guidance.
The underlying principle is that an entity will recognize revenue to depict the transfer of goods or services to customers at an amount that the entity expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services.
Each customer purchase order sets forth the transaction price for the products and services purchased under that arrangement.
variable consideration at each reporting date.
Service revenues related to the work performed for the Company’s customers by its maintenance technicians generally represent a separate and distinct performance obligation.
These customized products generally have no alternative use to the Company and the terms and conditions of these arrangements give the Company the enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date, including a reasonable profit margin.
Methods used by the Company to measure progress toward completion include labor hours, costs incurred and units of production.
The Company's typical payment terms are 30 days and sales arrangements do not contain any significant financing component for its customers.
At July 1, 2018, the right of return asset related to the value of inventory anticipated to be returned from customers was $2,647 and refund liability representing amounts estimated to be refunded to customers was $5,013.


item2.txt
The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the “Reform Act”) provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of EnerSys.
•the operation, capacity and security of our information systems and infrastructure.
In the following discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition, certain financial measures may be considered “non-GAAP financial measures” under Securities and Exchange Commission rules.
These rules require supplemental explanation and reconciliation, which is provided in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Management believes that this non-GAAP supplemental information is helpful in understanding the Company’s ongoing operating results.
EnerSys (the “Company,” “we,” or “us”) is the world’s largest manufacturer, marketer and distributor of industrial batteries.
We also manufacture, market and distribute products such as battery chargers, power equipment, battery accessories, and outdoor cabinet enclosures.
Additionally, we provide related aftermarket and customer-support services for our products.
•Asia, which includes Asia, Australia and Oceania, with our segment headquarters in Singapore.
•Reserve power products are used for backup power for the continuous operation of critical applications in telecommunications systems, uninterruptible power systems, or “UPS” applications for computer and computer-controlled systems, and other specialty power applications, including medical and security systems, premium starting, lighting and ignition applications, in switchgear, electrical control systems used in electric utilities, large-scale energy storage, energy pipelines, in commercial aircraft, satellites, military aircraft, submarines, ships and tactical vehicles.


item3.txt
We manage our exposure to these market risks through internally established policies and procedures and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments.
Our policy does not allow speculation in derivative instruments for profit or execution of derivative instrument contracts for which there are no underlying exposures.


item4.txt



part2.txt
From time to time, we are involved in litigation incidental to the conduct of our business.


