The accompanying unaudited consolidated condensed financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring accruals) considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included, unless otherwise disclosed.
001-32253), which was filed on May 30, 2018 (the “2018 Annual Report”).
EnerSys (the “Company”) reports interim financial information for 13-week periods, except for the first quarter, which always begins on April 1, and the fourth quarter, which always ends on March 31.
The four quarters in fiscal 2019 end on July 1, 2018, September 30, 2018, December 30, 2018, and March 31, 2019, respectively.
All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.
2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)” providing guidance on revenue from contracts with customers that supersedes most current revenue recognition guidance, including industry-specific guidance.
The underlying principle is that an entity will recognize revenue to depict the transfer of goods or services to customers at an amount that the entity expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services.
Each customer purchase order sets forth the transaction price for the products and services purchased under that arrangement.
Service revenues related to the work performed for the Company’s customers by its maintenance technicians generally represent a separate and distinct performance obligation.The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the “Reform Act”) provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of EnerSys.
These rules require supplemental explanation and reconciliation, which is provided in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
EnerSys’ management uses the non-GAAP measures “primary working capital” and “primary working capital percentage” in its evaluation of business segment cash flow and financial position performance.
Management believes that this non-GAAP supplemental information is helpful in understanding the Company’s ongoing operating results.
EnerSys (the “Company,” “we,” or “us”) is the world’s largest manufacturer, marketer and distributor of industrial batteries.
We also manufacture, market and distribute products such as battery chargers, power equipment, battery accessories, and outdoor cabinet enclosures.
•Asia, which includes Asia, Australia and Oceania, with our segment headquarters in Singapore.We manage our exposure to these market risks through internally established policies and procedures and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments.