fls.txt
Generally, the inclusion of the words “anticipate,” “believe,” “expect,” “future,” “intend,” “estimate,” “will,” “plans,” or the negative of such terms and similar expressions identify statements that constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that are intended to come within the safe harbor protection provided by those sections.


item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited consolidated condensed financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring adjustments except those otherwise described herein) considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included, unless otherwise disclosed.
The financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto included in the Company’s 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K (SEC File No.
EnerSys (the “Company,”) reports interim financial information for 13-week periods, except for the first quarter, which always begins on April 1, and the fourth quarter, which always ends on March 31.
The four quarters in fiscal 2019 ended on July 1, 2018, September 30, 2018, December 30, 2018, and March 31, 2019, respectively.
All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.
•to apply the short-term lease exception to leases that, at the commencement date, has a lease term of 12 months or less and does not include an option to purchase the underlying asset that the lessee is reasonably certain to exercise.
In addition, capital lease assets and liabilities are now classified as finance lease right-of-use assets and liabilities.
statement line as the hedged item.
In February 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-02, "Income Statement - Reporting Comprehensive Income (Topic 220)".
2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)” on April 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective transition method.
There was no cumulative effect of adopting the standard at the date of initial application in retained earnings.
Service revenues related to the work performed for the Company’s customers by its maintenance technicians generally represent a separate and distinct performance obligation.
Control for these services passes to the customer as the services are performed.
A small portion of the Company's customer arrangements oblige the Company to create customized products for its customers that require the bundling of both products and services into a single performance obligation because the individual products and services that are required to fulfill the customer requirements do not meet the definition for a distinct performance obligation.
For these arrangements, control transfers over time and the Company measures progress towards completion by selecting the input or output method that best depicts the transfer of control of the underlying goods and services to the customer for each respective arrangement.


item2.txt
The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the “Reform Act”) provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of EnerSys.
•the operation, capacity and security of our information systems and infrastructure.
These rules require supplemental explanation and reconciliation, which is provided in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
EnerSys’ management uses the non-GAAP measures “primary working capital” and “primary working capital percentage” in its evaluation of business segment cash flow and financial position performance.
EnerSys (the “Company,” “we,” or “us”) is the world’s largest manufacturer, marketer and distributor of industrial batteries.
We also manufacture, market and distribute products such as battery chargers, power equipment, battery accessories, and outdoor cabinet enclosures.
•Americas, which includes North and South America, with our segment headquarters in Reading, Pennsylvania, U.S.A.; •Asia, which includes Asia, Australia and Oceania, with our segment headquarters in Singapore.
We did not change our reportable segments this quarter as previously disclosed.
Additionally, the Company acquired substantially all of the assets of Alpha Technologies Inc. and certain assets of Altair Advanced Industries, Inc. and other affiliates of ATS and ATL (all such sellers, together with ATS and ATL, “Alpha”), in each case in accordance with the terms and conditions of certain restructuring agreements (collectively, the “asset acquisition” and together with the share purchase, the “acquisition”).
Based in Bellingham, Washington, Alpha is a global industry leader in the comprehensive commercial-grade energy solutions for broadband, telecom, renewable, industrial and traffic customers around the world.


item3.txt
We manage our exposure to these market risks through internally established policies and procedures and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments.
Our policy does not allow speculation in derivative instruments for profit or execution of derivative instrument contracts for which there are no underlying exposures.


item4.txt



part2.txt
From time to time, we are involved in litigation incidental to the conduct of our business.


