fls.txt



item1.txt
Refer to Note 17 – Subsequent Events for additional information on the Fourth Amendment and the resulting changes to the terms of the Credit Agreement.
To account for the partial year beginning on February 1, 2019 and continuing through the 2019 annual meeting, and thereby provide for the alignment of the timing of annual grants of restricted stock under the New Program with the election of directors at the annual meeting, a total of 4,340 shares of restricted stock were granted to the non-employee directors on February 1, 2019.
The lease liability is equal to the present value of the minimum lease payments for the term of the lease, including any optional renewal periods determined to be reasonably certain to be exercised, using a discount rate determined at lease commencement.
Royalty payments are based on gross revenues from the sales of the printers, paper and repair services of the licensed products.
Both swaps have been designated as cash flow hedges of floating-rate borrowings.
Following the completion of the third quarter of fiscal 2020, the Company entered into a Fourth Amendment to its Credit Agreement with Bank of America governing the Company’s long-term debt.
Under the 2018 Plan, all awards to employees generally have a minimum vesting period of one year.
For operating leases, ROU assets are classified in other long-term assets, short-term lease liabilities are classified in other current liabilities, and long-term lease liabilities are classified in other long-term liabilities on the condensed consolidated balance sheet.
We derive revenue from the sale of (i) hardware, including digital color label printers and specialty OEM printing systems, portable data acquisition systems and airborne printers used in the flight deck and cabin of military, commercial and business aircraft, (ii) related supplies required in the operation of the hardware, (iii) repairs and maintenance of hardware and (iv) service agreements.
These costs are deferred and amortized based on the forecasted number of units sold over the estimated benefit term, which was estimated to be approximately 10 years.
For the three and nine months ended November 2, 2019, the diluted per share amounts do not reflect common equivalent shares outstanding of 238,477 and 206,592, respectively.
During the three months ended October 27, 2018, the Company recognized an income tax expense of approximately $407,000.
These outstanding common equivalent shares were not included due to their anti-dilutive effect.
The Company is providing the following information in this Item 5 in lieu of disclosing the information under Items 1.01 and 2.03 of a Current Report on Form 8-K with a due date on or after the date hereof.
The weighted average fair value per share for stock options granted was $7.41 during the nine month period ended October 27, 2018.
Following the completion of the third quarter of fiscal 2020, the Company entered into a Fourth Amendment to the Credit Agreement to, among other things, temporarily increase the revolving line of credit from $10.0 million to $17.5 million and modify certain of the financial covenants with which the Company must comply thereunder.
The lease liability is equal to the present value of the minimum lease payments for the term of the lease, including any optional renewal periods determined to be reasonably certain to be exercised, using a discount rate determined at lease commencement.
On the cash flow statement, payments for operating leases are classified as operating activities.


item2.txt
The $1.4 million decrease in the accounts receivable balance from year end is directly related to the decrease in sales for the third quarter of the current year as compared to third quarter sales in fiscal 2019.
In addition, during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, a change in accounting estimate for revenue subject to customer rebates under the Honeywell Agreement increased net income by $0.3 million or $0.05 per diluted share.
The $1.4 million decrease in the accounts receivable balance from year end is directly related to the decrease in sales for the third quarter of the current year as compared to third quarter sales in fiscal 2019.
Return on revenue was 3.0% for the first nine months of fiscal 2020 compared to 3.4% for the first nine months of fiscal 2019.
International revenue for the first nine months of the current year was $38.5 million, a slight decrease from the previous year international revenue of $38.7 million.
The Company’s obligations in respect of the $15.0 million term loan, revolving credit facility and its guarantee in respect of the ANI ApS term loan are secured by substantially all of the assets of the Company (including a pledge of a portion of the equity interests held by the Company in ANI ApS and the Company’s wholly owned German subsidiary, AstroNova GmbH), subject to certain exceptions.
This growth was tempered by lower sales of other inkjet color printers within the QuickLabel product group.
This compares to the prior year’s third quarter segment profit of $2.0 million and related profit margin of 9.3%.
The accounts receivable balance decreased to $22.1 million at the end of the third quarter compared to $23.5 million at year end.
This compares to the prior year’s third quarter segment profit of $2.0 million and related profit margin of 9.3%.


item4.txt



part2.txt
 10.1   Fourth Amendment to Credit Agreement, dated as of December 9, 2019, by and among AstroNova, Inc. ANI ApS, Trojan Label ApS and Bank of America, N.A.


