fls.txt



item1.txt
The fair value of the Company’s long-term debt, including the current portion, is estimated by discounting the future cash flows using current interest rates at which similar loans with the same maturities would be made to borrowers with similar credit ratings and is classified as Level 3.
With respect to the acquired intangibles included in the table above, amortization expense of $1.1 million and $1.0 million has been included in the condensed consolidated statements of income for the three months ended August 3, 2019 and July 28, 2018, respectively.
These costs are deferred and amortized based on the forecasted number of units sold over the estimated benefit term, which was estimated to be approximately 10 years.
The tax effect of significant unusual items is reflected in the period in which they occur.
The number of whole shares to be granted will be equal to the number calculated by dividing the stock component of the director compensation amount determined by the compensation committee for that year by the fair market value of our stock on that day.
Dollars or, subject to certain conditions, Euros, British Pounds, Canadian Dollars or Danish Kroner.
See Note 11 for further details related to this adoption, including policy and expanded disclosure requirements.
The accounting polices used in preparing the condensed consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-Q are the same as those used in preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended January 31, 2019, except for the change resulting from the adoption of Accounting Standard Codification Topic 842 (“ASC 842”), Leases.
In addition to the 2018 Plan, we previously granted equity awards under our 2015 Equity Incentive Plan (the “2015 Plan”) and our 2007 Equity Incentive Plan (the “2007 Plan”).
A total of 11,560 shares were awarded to the non-employee directors as compensation under the New Program in the second quarter of fiscal 2020.
At August 3, 2019, the Company expects to reclassify approximately $0.2 million of net gains on the swap contracts from accumulated other comprehensive loss to earnings during the next 12 months due to changes in foreign exchange rates and the payment of variable interest associated with the floating-rate debt.
This discount rate is the rate implicit in the lease, if known; otherwise, the incremental borrowing rate for the expected lease term is used.
Revolving credit loans may be borrowed, at the Company’s option, in U.S.
The lease liability is equal to the present value of the minimum lease payments for the term of the lease, including any optional renewal periods determined to be reasonably certain to be exercised, using a discount rate determined at lease commencement.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and reflect all adjustments consisting of normal recurring adjustments which, in the opinion of management, are necessary for a fair presentation of the results of the interim periods included herein.
The balance of these contract assets at January 31, 2019 was $903,000.


item2.txt
Current year second quarter gross profit was $12.0 million, a 10.6% decrease compared to prior year second quarter gross profit of $13.4 million.
Product Identification’s current quarter segment operating profit was $2.2 million, reflecting a profit margin of 10.0%.
Both term loans bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the LIBOR rate plus a margin that varies within a range of 1.0% to 1.5% based on the Company’s consolidated leverage ratio.
Both term loans bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the LIBOR rate plus a margin that varies within a range of 1.0% to 1.5% based on the Company’s consolidated leverage ratio.
These transactions were not part of a publicly announced purchase plan or program.
International revenue for the first six months of the current year was $27.0 million, a 3.5% increase from the previous year international revenue of $26.1 million.
The net decreased cash position at August 3, 2019 primarily resulted from principal payments of long-term debt and the guaranteed royalty obligation of $2.8 million and $0.9 million, respectively; cash used to acquire property, plant and equipment of $1.5 million and dividends paid of $1.0 million, offset by increased cash provided by operations as discussed above and the current period borrowing on the Company’s existing revolving credit facility of $2.0 million.
Return on revenue was 2.8% for the second quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to 3.5% for the second quarter of fiscal 2019.
The Company’s backlog increased 12.9% from year-end to $22.3 million at the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2020.
The current year increase in supplies revenue is due primarily to the increase in inkjet printer supplies and labels sales, tempered by lower thermal film and electrophotographic supplies revenue in the Product Identification segment.
The Company’s statements of cash flows for the six months ended August 3, 2019 and July 28, 2018 are included on page 7 of this report.
In addition, during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, a change in accounting estimate for revenue subject to customer rebates under the Honeywell Agreement increased net income by $0.3 million or $0.05 per diluted share.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Executives of the Company delivered 4,420 shares of the Company’s common stock toward the satisfaction of taxes due with respect to vesting of restricted shares.


