fls.txt



item1.txt
On August 1, 2016 (fiscal year 2017) the Company granted 5,000 options to its Chief Financial Officer.
The majority of our hardware products contain embedded operating systems and data management software which is included in the purchase price of the equipment.
The update also requires improved disclosures to help users of financial statements better understand the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
The recorded data is processed and analyzed and then stored and presented in various visual output formats.
The tax effect of significant unusual items is reflected in the period in which they occur.
The portion of service contracts and extended warranty services agreements that are uncompleted at the end of any reporting period are included in deferred revenue.
On November 30, 2017, the Parties entered into a Second Amendment to the Credit Agreement with the Lender.
The additional $0.4 million TSA obligation payment was included as part of the Honeywell Agreement purchase price and recorded as an increase to the related intangible asset.
In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-15, “Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments (Topic 230).” ASU 2016-15 addresses eight specific cash flow issues with the objective of reducing the existing diversity in practice for certain cash receipts and cash payments.
Dollars on our Danish subsidiary’s books to a fixed-rate debt denominated in Danish Krone for the term of the loan, thus reducing the impact of interest-rate and foreign currency exchange rate changes on future interest expense and principal repayments.
As of July 28, 2018, there was approximately $2.0 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to stock options which is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of approximately 2.7 years.
On April 17, 2018, the Parties entered into a Third Amendment to the Credit Agreement with the Lender.
Revolving credit loans may be borrowed, at the Company’s option, in U.S.
In March 2015 (fiscal year 2016), the Company granted 50,000 options and 537 RSAs to its Chief Executive Officer pursuant to an Equity Incentive Award Agreement dated as of November 24, 2014 (“CEO Equity Incentive Agreement”), and 35,000 options to other key employees.
The cross-currency interest rate swap agreement utilized by the Company effectively modifies the Company’s exposure to interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange rate risk by converting approximately $8.9 million of the Company’s floating-rate debt denominated in U.S.
Fair value is applied to our financial assets and liabilities including money market funds, available for sale securities, derivative instruments and a contingent consideration liability relating to an earnout payment on future TrojanLabel operating results.
These costs are deferred and amortized based on the forecasted number of units sold over the estimated benefit term, which is currently estimated to be approximately 10 years.
The fair value of the intangible assets acquired was estimated by applying the income approach.


item2.txt
An employee of the Company delivered 2,048 shares of the Company’s common stock toward the satisfaction of taxes due with respect to vesting of restricted shares.
The Lender is entitled to accelerate repayment of the loans and to terminate its revolving credit commitment under the Credit Agreement upon the occurrence of any of various customary events of default.
The Third Amendment defines “Immaterial Subsidiary” as any subsidiary of the Company with (a) consolidated total assets that do not exceed 5.0% of the consolidated total assets of the Company and its subsidiaries and (b) revenues that do not exceed 5.0% of the consolidated revenues of the Company and its subsidiaries, as of the last day of the most recent fiscal quarter; provided that Immaterial Subsidiaries shall not account for, in the aggregate, more than 10% the of consolidated total assets or consolidated revenues of the Company and its subsidiaries.
The Company reported net income of $2.0 million, or $0.17 per diluted share, for the first six months of the current year, which included $0.8 million of after-tax income, or $0.12 per diluted share, as a result of a change in accounting estimates in the first quarter for product cost and operating expenses related to a transition services agreement entered into with Honeywell in connection with the Honeywell Agreement.
  3A   Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Company and all amendments thereto (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3A to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended April 30, 2016).
 Item 2.
The Third Amendment defines “Immaterial Subsidiary” as any subsidiary of the Company with (a) consolidated total assets that do not exceed 5.0% of the consolidated total assets of the Company and its subsidiaries and (b) revenues that do not exceed 5.0% of the consolidated revenues of the Company and its subsidiaries, as of the last day of the most recent fiscal quarter; provided that Immaterial Subsidiaries shall not account for, in the aggregate, more than 10% the of consolidated total assets or consolidated revenues of the Company and its subsidiaries.
The shares delivered were valued at an average market value of $18.25 per share and are included with treasury stock in the consolidated balance sheet.
Hardware revenue increased 8.2% compared to prior year primarily due to an increase in demand for the new TrojanLabel printers products.


item4.txt



part2.txt
  10.1   Form of Performance-based Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on June 4, 2018).
Employees of the Company delivered 6,076 shares of the Company’s common stock toward the satisfaction of taxes due with respect to vesting of restricted shares.


