fls.txt



item1.txt
The fair value of the Company’s long-term debt, including the current portion, is estimated by discounting the future cash flows using current interest rates at which similar borrowings with the same maturities would be made to borrowers with similar credit ratings and is classified as Level 3.
Under the terms of the TSA, the Company is required to pay for certain expenses incurred by Honeywell during the period in which product manufacturing is transferred to the Company’s facilities.
The slight increase in the deferred revenue at October 27, 2018 is primarily due to approximately $610,000 of revenue recognized during the period that was included in the deferred revenue balance at January 31, 2018, offset by cash payments received in advance of satisfying performance obligations.
RSAs granted subsequent to March 30, 2017 become vested three months after the date of grant.
the Company’s interest rate swap was $12.0 million and is included in other assets in the Company’s condensed consolidated balance at its fair value amount of $0.2 million.
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-13, “Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820), Disclosure Framework-Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Fair Value Measurement.” ASU 2018-13 modifies the disclosure requirements for fair value measurements by removing, modifying or adding certain disclosures.
In July 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-11, “Leases (Topic 842) Targeted Improvements,” which amends ASU 2016-02 to provide an additional (and optional) transition method to adopt the new lease standard.
As of October 27, 2018, there was approximately $1.7 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to stock options which is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of approximately 2.5 years.
The Credit Agreement contains limitations, in each case subject to various exceptions and thresholds, on the Company’s and its subsidiaries’ ability to incur future indebtedness, to place liens on assets, to conduct mergers or acquisitions, to sell assets, to alter their capital structure, to make investments and loans, to change the nature of their business, and to prepay subordinated indebtedness.
The core principle of ASC Topic 606 is to recognize revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services.
The tax effect of significant unusual items is reflected in the period in which they occur.
Under this guidance, revenue is recognized when a customer obtains control of promised goods or services in an amount that reflects the consideration the entity expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services.
We also provide service agreements on certain of our Product Identification equipment.
In March 2016 (fiscal year 2017), the Company granted 50,000 options and 4,030 RSAs to its Chief Executive Officer pursuant to the CEO Equity Incentive Agreement.
the Company’s interest rate swap was $12.0 million and is included in other assets in the Company’s condensed consolidated balance at its fair value amount of $0.2 million.
The Second Amendment provided for a term loan to the Company in the principal amount of $15.0 million, in addition to the revolving credit facility for the Company and the term loan previously borrowed by ANI ApS at the original closing under the Credit Agreement.
See Notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
The Credit Agreement permits the Company to pay cash dividends on and repurchase shares of its common stock, subject to certain limitations.
These services are short in duration, typically less than one month, and total less than 9% of revenue for the nine months ended October 27, 2018.
Revolving credit loans may be borrowed, at the Company’s option, in U.S.


item2.txt
Generally, our primary source of liquidity is cash generated from operating activities.
The Second Amendment provided for a term loan to the Company in the principal amount of $15.0 million, in addition to the revolving credit facility for the Company and the term loan previously borrowed by ANI ApS at the original closing under the Credit Agreement.
The First Amendment amended the existing Credit Agreement to permit the Honeywell Agreement and temporarily increased the amount available for borrowing under the revolving credit facility from $10.0 million to $15.0 million.
The Third Amendment provides that no “Immaterial Subsidiary” will be required to become a guarantor or securing party under (unless requested by the Lender during default) or have its equity pledged pursuant to the Credit Agreement.
Our cash and cash equivalents at the end of the third quarter were $7.8 million and we have $8.5 million remaining available under our revolving credit facility.
Other expense in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 was $0.5 million compared to $12 thousand in the prior year third quarter.
The Company reported net income of $1.4 million or $0.20 per diluted share for the third quarter of the current year, consistent with net income for the prior year third quarter of $1.4 million or $0.21 per diluted share.
The current year third quarter also received a solid contribution from the supplies product line revenue, which increased 5.6% from the same period in the prior year.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 1A.


