fls.txt



item1.txt
For our lease agreements with lease and non-lease components, we generally account for each component separately.
The purchase price included a guaranteed minimum royalty payment of $15.0 million, to be paid over ten years, based on gross revenues from the sales of the printers, paper and repair services of the licensed products.
Both swaps have been designated as cash flow hedges of floating-rate borrowings.
Key assumptions in estimating the fair value of the contingent consideration liability included (1) the estimated earnout targets over the next seven years of $0.5 million-$1.4 million, (2) the probability of success (achievement of the various contingent events) from 0.0%-0.9% and (3) a risk-adjusted discount rate of approximately 2.68%-4.9% used to adjust the probability-weighted earnout payments to their present value.
Pursuant to the New Program, beginning with fiscal 2020, each non-employee director will automatically receive a grant of restricted stock on the date of their re-election to the Company’s board of directors.
There were no impairments to intangible assets during the periods ended May 4, 2019 and April 28, 2018.
There have been no material updates to the risk factors previously disclosed in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2019.
To account for the partial year beginning on February 1, 2019 and continuing through the 2019 annual meeting and thereby provide for the alignment of the timing of annual grants of restricted stock under the New Program with the election of directors at the annual meeting, on February 1, 2019, each non-employee director was granted shares of restricted stock with a fair market value of $18,000.
The Company has entered into a cross-currency interest rate swap to manage the interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange risk associated with the floating-rate foreign currency-denominated term loan borrowing by our Danish Subsidiary and an interest rate swap to manage the interest rate risk associated with the variable rate term loan borrowing by the Company.
We normally do not have contract assets, which are primarily unbilled accounts receivable that are conditional on something other than the passage of time.
For our lease agreements with lease and non-lease components, we generally account for each component separately.
We derive revenue from the sale of (i) hardware, including digital color label printers and specialty OEM printing systems, portable data acquisition systems and airborne printers used in the flight deck and cabin of military, commercial and business aircraft, (ii) related supplies required in the operation of the hardware, (iii) repairs and maintenance of hardware and (iv) service agreements.
Key assumptions in estimating the fair value of the contingent consideration liability included (1) the estimated earnout targets over the next seven years of $0.5 million-$1.4 million, (2) the probability of success (achievement of the various contingent events) from 0.0%-0.9% and (3) a risk-adjusted discount rate of approximately 2.68%-4.9% used to adjust the probability-weighted earnout payments to their present value.
Revolving credit loans may be borrowed, at the Company’s option, in U.S.
Pursuant to the New Program, beginning with fiscal 2020, each non-employee director will automatically receive a grant of restricted stock on the date of their re-election to the Company’s board of directors.
There have been no material updates to the risk factors previously disclosed in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2019.
Unless otherwise indicated, references to “AstroNova,” the “Company,” “we,” “our,” and “us” in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q refer to AstroNova, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.


item2.txt
The accounts receivable balance decreased to $22.0 million at the end of the first quarter compared to $23.5 million at year end and the collection cycle increased to 53 days compared to 49 days at year end.
This compares to prior year’s first quarter segment profit of $1.7 million and related profit margin of 8.3%.
 Item 2.
Executives of the Company delivered 3,549 shares of the Company’s common stock toward the satisfaction of taxes due with respect to vesting of restricted shares.
Under this combined arrangement, payments of principal and interest with respect to approximately $8.9 million of the principal of the term loan will be made in Danish Krone, and interest on such principal amount will be payable at a fixed rate of 0.67% per annum for the entire term, subject only to potential changes based on the Company’s consolidated leverage ratio.
The Parties must comply with various customary financial and non-financial covenants under the Credit Agreement.
Additionally, the Company entered into a hedging agreement to manage the variable interest rate risk associated with its payments with respect to the $15.0 million term loan.
The Company’s statements of cash flows for the three months ended May 4, 2019 and April 28, 2018 are included on page 7 of this report.
This section should be read in conjunction with the AstroNova condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere herein and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2019.
This section should be read in conjunction with the AstroNova condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere herein and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2019.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


