fls.txt



item1.txt
The Company has reclassified the presentation of certain prior-year information to conform to the current presentation.
The Company included finance lease receivables of $13.3 and $14.4 in other assets as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, in the condensed consolidated balance sheets.
The Company recognizes revenue when it satisfies a performance obligation by transferring control over a product or service to a customer.
The Company's payment terms vary depending on the individual contracts and are generally fixed fee.
In certain contracts where services are provided prior to billing, the Company recognizes a contract asset within trade receivables.
The Company includes a warranty in connection with certain contracts with customers, which are not considered to be separate performance obligations.
The Company provides its customers a manufacturer’s warranty and records, at the time of the sale, a corresponding estimated liability for potential warranty costs.
The Company also has extended warranty and service contracts available for its customers, which are recognized as separate performance obligations.
Revenue is recognized on these contracts ratably as the Company has a stand-ready obligation to provide services when or as needed by the customer.
The following is a description of principal activities, separated by reportable operating segments, from which the Company generates its revenue.
First and second line maintenance, preventive maintenance and on-demand services keep the distributed assets of the Company's customers up and running through a standardized incident management process.
The Company also provides a full array of cash management services, which optimizes the availability and cost of physical currency across the enterprise through efficient forecasting, inventory and replenishment processes.
For bundled packages, the Company accounts for individual services separately if they are distinct.
The stand-alone selling prices are determined based on the prices at which the Company separately sells the services.
Revenue on service contracts is recognized ratably over time, generally using an input measure, as the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits of the Company’s performance as the services are performed.
The Company applies the ‘as invoiced’ practical expedient related to performance obligations satisfied over time which permits the Company to recognize revenue in the amount to which it has a right to invoice the customer if that amount corresponds directly with the value to the customer of the Company’s performance completed to date.
The Company provides front-end applications for consumer connection points and back-end platforms that manage channel transactions, operations and integration.
The Company's platform software is installed within bank and retail data centers to facilitate omnichannel transactions, endpoint monitoring, remote asset management, customer marketing, merchandise management and analytics.
The Company’s advisory services team collaborates with its customers to help define optimal user experience, improve business processes, refine existing staffing models and deploy technology to meet branch and store automation objectives.


item2.txt
The Company's approximately 23,000 employees service our customer's integrated solutions and design and deliver convenient, "always on" and highly secure solutions that bridge the physical and the digital worlds of transactions.
Customers of the Company include nearly all of the world's top 100 financial institutions and a majority of the top 25 global retailers.
Commensurate with its strategy, the Company is executing a multi-year integration and transformation program which aligns employee activities with the Company's goal of realizing $240 of cost reduction by the year 2020.
In May 2018, the Company announced its plans to build upon the achievements of its integration and transformation program while improving Company profitability and cash flow through relentless focus on our customers, operational excellence and forming a unified culture.
The Company anticipates the realignment of its operating model to Banking and Retail, which are directly aligned with customer interests.
In order to achieve these efficiencies, the Company has and will continue to invest to restructure the workforce, integrate and optimize systems, streamline legal entities and consolidate real estate holdings.
Managed services and outsourcing consists of managing the end-to-end business processes, technology integration and day-to-day operation of the self-service channel, bank branch and retail store networks.
The Company also provides a full array of cash management services, which optimizes the availability and cost of physical currency across the enterprise through efficient forecasting, inventory and replenishment processes.
These services mitigate customer risks by relying on proven monitoring and reporting processes, secure tools and partnerships with larger cash-in-transit companies.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt



