fls.txt



item1.txt
The Company reclassified an immaterial amount of $5.4 for the six months ended June 30, 2018 within the operating activities of the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows between depreciation and amortization and certain other assets and liabilities to correct its presentation.
The Company utilizes both operating and finance leases in its portfolio of leased assets, however, the majority of these leases are classified as operating.
•The Company declined the hindsight practical expedient to determine the lease term and ROU asset impairment for existing leases.
•The Company declined the short-term lease exception, therefore recognizing all leases in the ROU asset and lease liability balances.
•The Company elected to not separate non-lease components from lease components and, instead, to account for each separate lease component and the non-lease components associated with it as a single lease component, recognized on the balance sheet.
Certain lease agreements include payments based on a variety of global indexes or rates.
As of June 30, 2019, the Company did not have any material leases that have not yet commenced but that create significant rights and obligations.
ROU assets and liabilities are recognized at commencement date and initially measured based on the present value of lease payments over the defined lease term.
As most leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments.
Under the two-class method of computing earnings (loss) per share, non-vested share-based payment awards that contain rights to receive non-forfeitable dividends are considered participating securities.
The Company calculated basic and diluted earnings (loss) per share under both the treasury stock method and the two-class method.
For the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, there were no differences in the earnings (loss) per share amounts calculated under the two methods.
Total share-based compensation expense was $4.8 and $6.6 for the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and was $14.1 and $20.3 for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
In the first quarter of 2019, the Company changed its accounting estimate from using a forfeiture assumption to recording actual forfeitures.
Share-based compensation decreased $6.2 to $14.1 for the six months ended June 30, 2019 primarily due to a reduction in shares awarded in 2019.
The Company's performance shares include performance objectives that are assessed after a three-year period as well as performance objectives that are assessed annually over a three-year period.
On April 25, 2019, the Company's shareholders approved amendments to the 2017 Plan, which provide for an additional 3.0 common shares available for award.


item2.txt
As an innovation partner for nearly all of the world's top 100 financial institutions and a majority of the top 25 global retailers, the Company delivers unparalleled services and technology that power the daily operations and consumer experience of banks and retailers around the world.
The Company provides integrated solutions for financial institutions of all sizes designed to help drive operational efficiencies, differentiate the consumer experience, grow revenue and manage risk.
Managed services and outsourcing consists of managing the end-to-end business processes, technology integration and day-to-day operation of the self-service channel and the bank branch.
The Company’s software encompasses front-end applications for consumer connection points as well as back-end platforms which manage channel transactions, operations and channel integration.
The Company's DN Vynamic software is the first end-to-end Connected Commerce software portfolio in the banking marketplace designed to simplify and enhance the consumer experience.
The Company's advisory services team collaborates with customers to refine the end-user experience, improve business processes, refine existing staffing models and deploy technology to automate both branches and stores.
Services gross margin increased 5.0 percent and 2.7 percent in the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively.
Both the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 were unfavorably impacted by higher restructuring charges of $2.9 and $2.4, respectively.
The six months ended June 30, 2019 were favorably impacted by lower non-routine charges of $2.0 primarily related to a recovery on a spare parts inventory provision in 2019 and higher integration costs in 2018.
Excluding restructuring and non-routine charges, services gross margin increased 5.4 percent and 2.8 percent, respectively, for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 as services margin increased in the Eurasia banking segment related to the favorable impact of the services modernization initiatives and favorable mix of higher margin installation activity driven by the Company's focus on more profitable business.
The three and six months ended June 30, 2018, were unfavorably impacted by one-time banking services cost in Brazil.


item4.txt
This quarterly report on Form 10-Q includes the certifications of the Company's Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO) required by Rule 13a-14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act).


part2.txt



