fls.txt



item1.txt
During the third quarter of 2018, the Company identified an error in prior periods presented for repairable service parts inventory balances.
This correction was recorded within the Company's operations in the Americas Banking reporting segment.
As a result of applying the correction retrospectively, previously reported service cost of sales for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 increased by $1.0 and $3.0, respectively, and previously reported net income and basic and diluted earnings per share decreased by $0.6 and $0.01 and $1.9 and $0.02, respectively.
The Company has reclassified the presentation of certain prior-year information to conform to the current presentation.
The Company included finance lease receivables of $14.9 and $14.4 in other assets as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, in the condensed consolidated balance sheets.
The Company reclassified $8.0 from other current assets to restricted cash as of December 31, 2017 in the condensed consolidated balance sheets and was included in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash as of September 30, 2017 in the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows.
The Company recognizes revenue when it satisfies a performance obligation by transferring control over a product or service to a customer.
The Company's payment terms vary depending on the individual contracts and are generally fixed fee.
In certain contracts where services are provided prior to billing, the Company recognizes a contract asset within trade receivables and other current assets.
The Company includes a warranty in connection with certain contracts with customers, which are not considered to be separate performance obligations.
The Company provides its customers a manufacturer’s warranty and records, at the time of the sale, a corresponding estimated liability for potential warranty costs.
The Company also has extended warranty and service contracts available for its customers, which are recognized as separate performance obligations.
Revenue is recognized on these contracts ratably as the Company has a stand-ready obligation to provide services when or as needed by the customer.
The Company provides its banking customers product-related services which include proactive monitoring and rapid resolution of incidents through remote service capabilities or an on-site visit.
First and second line maintenance, preventive maintenance and on-demand services keep the distributed assets of the Company's customers up and running through a standardized incident management process.
The Company also provides a full array of cash management services, which optimizes the availability and cost of physical currency across the enterprise through efficient forecasting, inventory and replenishment processes.
The Company's hardware-agnostic software applications facilitate millions of transactions via automated teller machines (ATMs), point of sale (POS) terminals, kiosks, and other self-service devices.
The Company provides its banking customers front-end applications for consumer connection points and back-end platforms that manage channel transactions, operations and integration.


item2.txt
•Won Windows 10 ATM product upgrade contracts with several North America financial institutions, including an agreement with a regional United States (U.S.) bank for more than 500 DN Vynamic software licenses and a new managed services agreement.
By executing on these and other operational improvement activities, the Company expects to increase customer satisfaction, provide career enrichment opportunities for employees and enhance value for shareholders.
Leveraging a broad portfolio of solutions, the Company offers customers the flexibility to purchase the combination of services, software and systems that drive the most value to their business.
For example, the Company offers end-to-end branch and store automation solutions that consist of the complete value chain of consult, design, build and operate.
The Company provides integrated solutions for financial institutions of all sizes - tailored to help drive operational efficiencies, differentiate the consumer experience, grow revenue and manage risk.
Managed services and outsourcing consists of managing the end-to-end business processes, technology integration and day-to-day operation of the self-service channel and the bank branch.
The Company also provides cash management services, which optimizes the availability and cost of physical currency across the enterprise through efficient forecasting, inventory and replenishment processes.
From a software perspective, the Company provides financial institutions with front-end applications for consumer connection points as well as back-end platforms that manage channel transactions, operations and integration.
In 2017, the Company introduced DN Vynamic, the first end-to-end Connected Commerce software portfolio in the banking marketplace.
The Company's advisory services team collaborates with its customers to help define optimal user experience, improve business processes, refine existing staffing models and deploy technology to automate both branches and stores.


item3.txt
On August 15, 2016, the Company designated its €350.0 euro-denominated Term Loan B Facility as a net investment hedge of its investments in certain subsidiaries that use the euro as their functional currency in order to reduce volatility in stockholders' equity caused by the changes in foreign currency exchange rates of the euro with respect to the U.S. dollar.


item4.txt
This quarterly report on Form 10-Q includes the certifications of the Company's Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO) required by Rule 13a-14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act).


part2.txt
For more information regarding legal proceedings, please refer to Part I, Item 3 of the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.


