fls.txt



item1.txt
Restricted Cash- As part of the ItzCash Card Limited ("ItzCash") acquisition, $4.0 million of the possible future contingent earn-out payments is being held in escrow accounts for the twelve month period following the effective date of the acquisition to ensure that the acquired business achieves the minimum specified annual gross revenue threshold, which if not achieved will result in said funds being returned to Ebix.
Additionally, as part of the Wdev Solucoes em Technologia SA ("Wdev") acquisition, upfront cash consideration is being held in an escrow account for the thirty-eight month period following the effective date of the acquisition to ensure that the acquired business achieves the minimum specified annual net revenue threshold, which if not achieved will result in said funds being returned to Ebix.
Effective January 1, 2018 Subtopic 340-40 replaced that guidance to require the costs of direct-response advertising to be expensed as they are incurred or the first time the advertising takes place.
The Company was required to recognize a cumulative effective change to opening retained earnings in the year of adoption of the standard.
The Company recorded a one-time $1.9 million adjustment to retained earnings on January 1, 2018 and is expensing all future costs from this date forward.
Under the new guidance Subtopic 340-40, the Company's expense increased by $217 thousand during the first three months of 2018 from what would have been recorded under legacy US GAAP 340-20.
•Level 2 Inputs - Other than quoted prices included in Level 1 inputs, which are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the asset or liability.
 A financial instrument's level within the fair value hierarchy is based on the lowest level of any input that is significant to the fair value measurement.
•Short-term investments (commercial bank certificates of deposits and mutual funds), for which the fair values are measured as a Level 1 instrument.
These contingent consideration liabilities were recorded at fair value on the acquisition date and are re-measured quarterly based on the then assessed fair value and adjusted if necessary.
The Company applies these terms in its calculation and determination of the fair value of contingent earn out liabilities for purchased businesses as part of the related valuation and purchase price allocation exercise for the corresponding acquired assets and liabilities.
Revenue Recognition—In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606).
ASU 2014-09 outlines a single comprehensive model for companies to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers and supersedes most current revenue recognition guidance, including industry-specific guidance.
For contracts that contain multiple deliverables, we analyze the revenue arrangements in accordance with the relevant technical accounting guidance, which provides criteria governing how to determine whether goods or services that are delivered separately in a bundled sales arrangement should be considered as separate performance obligations for the purpose of revenue recognition.
These types of arrangements include obligations pertaining to software licenses, system set-up, and professional services associated with product customization or modification.
Software development arrangements involving significant customization, modification or production are accounted for in accordance with the appropriate technical accounting guidance issued by FASB using the percentage-of-completion method.


item2.txt
Safe Harbor for Forward-Looking Statements—This Form 10-Q and certain information incorporated herein by reference contains forward-looking statements and information within the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
The Company’s technology vision is to focus on the convergence of all channels, processes and entities in a manner such that data seamlessly flows once a data entry has initially been made.
Ebix strives to work collaboratively with clients to develop innovative technology strategies and solutions that address specific business challenges and requirements.
Ebix combines the newest technologies with its capabilities in consulting, systems design and integration, IT and business process outsourcing, applications software, and web and application hosting to meet the individual needs of organizations.
The Company also has multiple operating facilities and offices in Australia, Brazil, Thailand, New Zealand, the United Kingdom, Canada, Singapore, Dubai, and India.
In these operating offices, Ebix employs insurance and technology professionals who provide products, services, support and consultancy to thousands of customers across six continents.
The 2018 and 2017 pro forma financial information assumes that all business acquisitions made during this period were made on January 1, 2017, whereas the Company's reported financial statements for three months ended March 31, 2018 only includes the revenues from these businesses since the effective date that they were acquired or consolidated by Ebix, being April 2017 for Itzcash, June 2017 for beBetter, September 2017 for YouFirst, October 2017 for WallStreet, November 2017 for Paul Merchants, November 2017 for Via, and February 2018 for Transcorp.
•2018 and 2017 pro forma revenue contains actual revenue of the acquired entities before acquisition date, as reported by the sellers, as well as actual revenue of the acquired entities after acquisition, whereas the reported growth in revenues of the acquired entities after acquisition date are only reflected for the period after their acquisition.
Sales and marketing expenses decreased $339 thousand or 8%, to $4.0 million in the first quarter of 2018 as compared to $4.3 million in the first quarter of 2017 primarily due to a decrease in expenses relating to commissions.
Reported general and administrative expenses increased $6.8 million or 54% to $19.5 million in the first quarter of 2018 as compared to $12.7 million in the first quarter of 2017 primarily due to costs associated with the business acquisitions of ItzCash,Via, YouFirst, WallStreet and Paul Merchants, a $1.1 million increase in professional fees, a $948 thousand purchase accounting adjustment in 2017, and a $638 thousand increase in bad debt expense.


item3.txt
However, the Company has operations in Australia, India (specifically EbixCash), New Zealand, Great Britain, Canada, Brazil, Dubai, Singapore, Philippines, Indonesia, and United Arab Emirates where we conduct transactions in the local currencies of each of these locations.There can be no assurance that fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, operating results, revenues or financial condition.


item4.txt
We maintain a system of disclosure controls and procedures designed to provide reasonable assurance that the information required to be disclosed by the Company in reports that we file and submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported accurately within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms.


