fls.txt



item1.txt
•Level 2 Inputs - Other than quoted prices included in Level 1 inputs, which are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the asset or liability.
These contingent consideration liabilities were recorded at fair value on the acquisition date and are re-measured quarterly based on the then assessed fair value and adjusted if necessary.
The Company applies these terms in its calculation and determination of the fair value of contingent earn out liabilities for purchased businesses as part of the related valuation and purchase price allocation exercise for the corresponding acquired assets and liabilities.
For arrangements that include multiple performance obligations, the Company allocates consideration based on their relative fair values.These types of arrangements include obligations pertaining to software licenses, system set-up, and professional services associated with product customization or modification.
For arrangements where control is transferred over time, such as software development arrangements involving significant customization, modification, or production, an input or output method is applied that represents a faithful depiction of the progress towards completion of the performance obligation.
The transaction-based fees are primarily based on a percentage of payment value processed for solutions such as retail and corporate payments, domestic money transfers, and general purpose reloadable cards.
The substantial majority of the financial exchange revenue results from single performance obligation transactions.
Accounts Receivable and the Allowance for Doubtful Accounts—Reported accounts receivable include $131.2 million of trade receivables stated at invoice billed amounts and $31.0 million of unbilled receivables (net of the estimated allowance for doubtful accounts receivable in the amount of $6.6 million).
The Company adheres to such contractually stated performance milestones and accordingly issues invoices to customers as per contract billing schedules.
In accordance with the relevant FASB accounting guidance, goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level on an annual basis or on an interim basis if an event occurred or circumstances change that would indicate that fair value of a reporting unit decreased below its carrying value.
The aforementioned two-step quantitative testing process involves comparing the reporting unit carrying values to their respective fair values; we determine fair value of our reporting units by applying the discounted cash flow method using the present value of future estimated net cash flows.
However, if a reporting unit’s fair value were to be less than its carrying value, we would then determine the amount of the impairment charge, if any, which would be the amount that the carrying value of the reporting unit’s goodwill exceeded its implied value.
The functional currency of the Company's other foreign subsidiaries is the local currency of the country in which the subsidiary operates.
Foreign exchange transaction gains and losses that are derived from transactions denominated in a currency other than the subsidiary's functional currency are included in the determination of net income.
The amendments in this ASU are effective for public business entities for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, including interim periods within that fiscal year.
In June 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-07, Compensation-Stock Compensation (Topic 718) Improvements to Nonemployee Share-Based Payment Accounting.
The amendments in this ASU are effective for public business entities for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within that fiscal year.


item2.txt
As used herein, the terms “Ebix,” “the Company,” “we,” “our” and “us” refer to Ebix, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries as a combined entity, except where it is clear that the terms mean only Ebix, Inc.
Safe Harbor for Forward-Looking Statements—This Form 10-Q and certain information incorporated herein by reference contains forward-looking statements and information within the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
The Company’s technology vision is to focus on the convergence of all channels, processes and entities in a manner such that data seamlessly flows once a data entry has initially been made.
Ebix strives to work collaboratively with clients to develop innovative technology strategies and solutions that address specific business challenges and requirements.
Ebix combines the newest technologies with its capabilities in consulting, systems design and integration, IT and business process outsourcing, applications software, and web and application hosting to meet the individual needs of organizations.
Additionally, the Company leases office space in New Zealand, Australia, Singapore, Brazil, Canada, and London for support, operations and sales offices.
In these operating offices, Ebix employs insurance and technology professionals who provide products, services, support and consultancy to thousands of customers across six continents.
The Company derives its revenues primarily from subscription and transaction fees pertaining to services delivered over our exchanges or from our ASP platforms, fees for business process outsourcing services, and fees for software development projects including associated fees for consulting, implementation, training, and project management provided to customers with installed systems, e-governance solutions to governmental agencies in the health and education sectors, as well as foreign exchange, remittance (both inward and outward) and related services, including travel, from our new financial exchange.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019 our total operating revenues increased $34.7 million or 32%, to $142.9 million as compared to $108.2 million during the first quarter of 2018.


item3.txt
However, the Company has operations in Australia, India (specifically EbixCash), New Zealand, Great Britain, Canada, Brazil, Singapore, Philippines, Indonesia, and United Arab Emirates where we conduct transactions in the local currencies of each of these locations.


item4.txt



part2.txt
On February 10, 2015, defendants filed a Motion to Dismiss the Second Amended Complaint, which was granted in part and denied in part in a Memorandum Opinion and Order issued on January 15, 2016.


