fls.txt



item1.txt
The Company is continuing to evaluate the classification of the 2017 and 2018 acquisitions that collectively make up the EbixCash Financial Exchanges, refer to Part I, Item I Business in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Restricted Cash- As part of the Wdev Solucoes em Technologia SA ("Wdev") acquisition, upfront cash consideration is being held in an escrow account for the thirty-eight month period following the effective date of the acquisition to ensure that the acquired business achieves the minimum specified annual net revenue threshold, which if not achieved will result in said funds being returned to Ebix.
During the first nine months of 2017 reported sales and marketing expenses included $3.0 million of amortization of certain direct-response advertising costs associated with our medical education services, which have been capitalized in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Topic 340.
The Company was required to recognize a cumulative effective change to opening retained earnings in the year of adoption of the standard.
The Company recorded a one-time $1.9 million adjustment to retained earnings on January 1, 2018 and is expensing all future costs from this date forward.
•Level 2 Inputs - Other than quoted prices included in Level 1 inputs, which are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the asset or liability.
 A financial instrument's level within the fair value hierarchy is based on the lowest level of any input that is significant to the fair value measurement.
•Short-term investments (commercial bank certificates of deposits and mutual funds), for which the fair values are measured as a Level 1 instrument.
•Contingent accrued earn-out business acquisition consideration liabilities for which fair values are measured as Level 3 instruments.
These contingent consideration liabilities were recorded at fair value on the acquisition date and are re-measured quarterly based on the then assessed fair value and adjusted if necessary.
The Company applies these terms in its calculation and determination of the fair value of contingent earn out liabilities for purchased businesses as part of the related valuation and purchase price allocation exercise for the corresponding acquired assets and liabilities.
Revenue Recognition—In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers ("Topic 606").
Topic 606 outlines a single comprehensive model for companies to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers, and supersedes most current revenue recognition guidance, including industry-specific guidance.
In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-08, Principal Versus Agent Considerations (Reporting Revenue Gross Versus Net), which amends the principal-versus-agent implementation guidance and in April 2016 the FASB issued ASU 2016-10, Identifying Performance Obligations and Licensing, which amends the guidance in those areas in the new revenue recognition standard.
These types of arrangements include obligations pertaining to software licenses, system set-up, and professional services associated with product customization or modification.
Software development arrangements involving significant customization, modification or production are accounted for in accordance with the appropriate technical accounting guidance issued by FASB using the percentage-of-completion method.
The Company recognizes revenue using periodic reported actual hours worked as a percentage of total expected hours required to complete the project arrangement and applies the percentage to the total arrangement fee.


item2.txt
As used herein, the terms “Ebix,” “the Company,” “we,” “our” and “us” refer to Ebix, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries as a combined entity, except where it is clear that the terms mean only Ebix, Inc.
Safe Harbor for Forward-Looking Statements—This Form 10-Q and certain information incorporated herein by reference contains forward-looking statements and information within the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
In the insurance sector, the Company’s main focus is to develop and deploy a wide variety of insurance and reinsurance exchanges on an on-demand basis, while also, providing SaaS enterprise solutions in the area of CRM, front-end and back-end systems, outsourced administrative and risk compliance.
With a "Phygital” strategy that combines 231,500 physical distribution outlets in many ASEAN countries to an Omni-channel online digital platform, the Company’s EbixCash Financial exchange portfolio encompasses leadership in areas of domestic and international money remittance, travel, pre-paid and gift cards, utility payments, etc., in emerging countries such as India.
EbixCash, through its travel portal Via.com, is also one of Southeast Asia’s leading travel exchanges with over 110,000 distribution outlets and 8,000 corporate clients processing over 24.5 million transactions every year.
The Company’s technology vision is to focus on the convergence of all channels, processes and entities in a manner such that data seamlessly flows once a data entry has initially been made.
Ebix strives to work collaboratively with clients to develop innovative technology strategies and solutions that address specific business challenges and requirements.
Ebix combines the newest technologies with its capabilities in consulting, systems design and integration, IT and business process outsourcing, applications software, and web and application hosting to meet the individual needs of organizations.
The Company also has multiple operating facilities and offices in Australia, Brazil, Thailand, New Zealand, the United Kingdom, Canada, Singapore, United Arab Emirates, and India.
In these operating offices, Ebix employs insurance and technology professionals who provide products, services, support and consultancy to thousands of customers across six continents.
The Company derives its revenues primarily from subscription and transaction fees pertaining to services delivered over our exchanges or from our ASP platforms, fees for business process outsourcing services, and fees for software development projects including associated fees for consulting, implementation, training, and project management provided to customers with installed systems, e-governance solutions to governmental agencies in the health and education sectors, as well as foreign exchange, remittance (both inward and outward) and related services, including travel, from our new financial exchange.


item3.txt
However, the Company has operations in Australia, India (specifically EbixCash), New Zealand, Great Britain, Canada, Brazil, Singapore, Philippines, Indonesia, and United Arab Emirates where we conduct transactions in the local currencies of each of these locations.


item4.txt



part2.txt



