fls.txt



item1.txt
The Company used substantially all of the net proceeds of the June 2018 issuance of convertible senior notes due 2025 to repurchase $220,000 and $69,060 principal amounts of convertible senior debentures due 2040 and due 2042, respectively.
The Company maintains non-qualified trusts, referred to as "rabbi" trusts, to fund payments under deferred compensation and non-qualified pension plans.
The quarterly cash dividend program of the Company results in adjustments to the conversion rate and effective conversion price for each issuance of the Company's convertible senior debentures effective as of the ex-dividend date of each cash dividend.
In June 2018, the Company issued $600,000 aggregate principal amount of 2.25% convertible senior notes due 2025 to qualified institutional investors.
The Company's 2007 Stock Incentive Program (the "2007 Program"), as amended and restated, permits the grant of up to 6,500,000 shares of restricted stock, unrestricted stock, RSUs, stock options, and phantom stock units, to officers, employees, and non-employee directors of the Company.
The dollar amount of these custom products did not materially change during the retrospective adoption period.
The carrying value of our convertible debt will continue to increase as the discount associated with the convertible instruments are amortized.
The Company has and will continue to recognize revenue on sales to distributors when the distributor takes control of the products ("sold-to" model).
The Company has not restated completed contracts that begin and end in the same annual reporting period; used the transaction price at the date the contract was completed rather than estimating variable consideration amounts in the comparative reporting periods; has not disclosed the amount of the transaction price allocated to the remaining performance obligations and an explanation of when the Company expects to recognize the amount as revenue for the reporting periods presented prior to January 1, 2016; and has not retrospectively restated the contract for modifications made prior to January 1, 2016 and instead reflected the aggregate effect of all modifications when identifying the satisfied and unsatisfied performance obligations, determining the transaction price and allocating the transaction price pursuant to the transition practical expedients available.
The Company recognized a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings (accumulated deficit) of $1,801 for the cumulative change in fair value of available-for-sale equity investments previously recognized in other comprehensive income due to the adoption of ASU 2016-01.


item2.txt
As a result of the convertible debt transactions and based on the June 30, 2018 balance of the revolving credit facility, we expect interest expense for the third fiscal quarter of 2018 to be approximately $11.0 million per quarter, of which $6.1 million will be payable in cash and the remainder will represent non-cash accretion and amortization of issuance costs.
However, management believes that an analysis of "net cash and short-term investments (debt)" assists investors in understanding aspects of our cash and debt management.
On May 7, 2018, our Board of Directors declared a dividend of $0.085 per share, representing a 26% increase over the previous quarterly dividend.
Borrowings under the credit facility bear interest at LIBOR plus an interest margin.
While these subsidiaries transact most business in U.S. dollars, they may have significant costs, particularly payroll-related, which are incurred in the local currency.
The decrease in operating cash flows reflects the payment of $92.1 million of cash taxes associated with repatriation activity and the first installment of the TCJA transition tax of $14.4 million.
Additionally, we continue to closely monitor our costs, inventory, and capital resources to respond to changing conditions and to ensure we have the management, business processes, and resources to meet our future needs.
For U.S. federal income tax purposes, the interest deduction for the convertible debentures is computed based on the comparable yield of a hypothetical fixed rate debt instrument with similar terms and conditions but no conversion feature.
This tax expense was recognized in 2015 following an evaluation of our anticipated domestic cash needs over the next several years and our most efficient use of liquidity, and with consideration of the amount of cash that could be repatriated to the U.S. efficiently with lesser withholding taxes in foreign jurisdictions.
For the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2018, our effective tax rate was (5.8)%, as compared to 32.0% and 25.5% for the fiscal quarters ended March 31, 2018 and July 1, 2017, respectively.
Through this strategy, we have grown to become one of the world's largest manufacturers of discrete semiconductors and passive components.
In addition to our growth plan, we also have opportunistically repurchased our stock.
As these investments were funded using a portion of excess cash and represent a significant aspect of our cash management strategy, we include the investments in the calculation of net cash and short-term investments (debt).
Contributive margin is calculated as net revenue less variable costs.
We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risks, particularly due to transactions in currencies other than the functional currencies of certain subsidiaries.


item3.txt
 Item 1A.
The Company used the net proceeds from this offering to repurchase $220.0 million and $69.1 million principal amounts of convertible senior debentures due 2040 and 2042, respectively, for $585.0 million.


item4.txt
 Item 4.


part2.txt
Following the repurchase of convertible debentures by us in June 2018, 20% and approximately 54% of the original principal amount of the original issuances of convertible debentures due 2040 and due 2042, respectively, remain outstanding.
As of June 30, 2018, our convertible senior debentures due 2040 and 2042 are convertible (See Note 6 to our consolidated condensed financial statements included in Item 1).


