fls.txt



item1.txt
Borrowings under the New Credit Facility bear interest at LIBOR plus an interest margin.
At the direction of its Board of Directors, the Company intends, upon conversion, to repay the principal amounts of any of the convertible debt instruments in cash and settle any additional amounts in shares of Vishay common stock.
The marketable securities held in the rabbi trusts are valued using quoted market prices on the last business day of the period.
Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the New Credit Facility, Vishay's obligations under the credit facility may be accelerated and the lending commitments under the credit facility may be terminated.
The Company’s convertible debt instruments are only convertible for specified periods upon the occurrence of certain events.
The Company recognizes compensation cost for RSUs that are expected to vest and records cumulative adjustments in the period that the expectation changes.
The amount of compensation cost related to stock-based payment transactions is measured based on the grant-date fair value of the equity instruments issued.
The Company used cash to repurchase $960, $12,288 and $2,168 principal amounts of convertible senior debentures due 2040, due 2041, and due 2042, respectively, in the first fiscal quarter of 2019.
The terms of the convertible senior debentures due 2040 and due 2041 are generally congruent.


item2.txt
The net earnings attributable to Vishay stockholders for the six fiscal months ended June 29, 2019 were $119.9 million, or $0.83 per diluted share, compared to $165.5 million, or $1.04 per diluted share for the six fiscal months ended June 30, 2018.
On May 8, 2019, our Board of Directors increased the quarterly dividend to $0.095 per share, representing a 12% increase over the previous quarterly dividend.
We continued to re-shape our capital structure in 2019.
Net revenues of the MOSFETs segment decreased significantly versus the prior fiscal quarter and prior year quarter, but increased slightly versus the prior year-to-date period.
The credit facility also limits or restricts us from, among other things, incurring indebtedness, incurring liens on its respective assets, making investments and acquisitions (assuming our pro forma leverage ratio is greater than 2.75 to 1.00), making asset sales, and paying cash dividends and making other restricted payments (assuming our pro forma leverage ratio is greater than 2.50 to 1.00), and requires us to comply with other covenants, including the maintenance of specific financial ratios.
On May 7, 2018, our Board of Directors increased the quarterly dividend to $0.085 per share, representing a 26% increase over the previous quarterly dividend.
For those foreign subsidiaries where the U.S. dollar is the functional currency, all foreign currency financial statement amounts are remeasured into U.S. dollars.
The slight increase versus the prior year-to-date period is primarily due to a more favorable customer mix and the impact of U.S. tariffs passed through to customers.
The interest rates on our short-term investments vary by location, but can be up to 150 bps higher than the interest rates on our cash accounts.
Management uses a non-GAAP measure, "free cash," to evaluate our ability to fund acquisitions, repay debt, and otherwise enhance stockholder value through stock repurchases or dividends.
During 2018, we issued $600 million principal amount of 2.25% convertible senior notes due 2025 to qualified institutional investors and repatriated approximately $724 million to the United States.
The increase versus the prior year periods is primarily due to increased sales volume, higher average selling prices, and more profitable product mix.
Net revenues for the six fiscal months ended June 29, 2019 were $1,430.4 million, compared to $1,477.8 million for the six fiscal months ended June 30, 2018.
We also pay a commitment fee, also based on its leverage ratio, on undrawn amounts.
The cash generated from operations is used to fund our capital expenditure plans, and cash in excess of our capital expenditure needs is available to fund our acquisition strategy, to reduce debt levels, and to pay dividends and repurchase stock.
Exchange gains and losses arising from remeasurement of foreign currency-denominated monetary assets and liabilities are included in the results of operations.
We used substantially all of the proceeds from the issuance and the repatriated amounts to reduce the outstanding balance of the credit facility to zero, to repay certain intercompany indebtedness, and to fund our 2018 repurchases of convertible senior debentures.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


part2.txt
 32.1 Certification Pursuant to 18 U.S.C.


