Upon adoption of ASC Topic 842, the Company was required to reassess the accounting for these transactions.
The Company currently expects all performance-based RSUs to vest and all of the associated unrecognized compensation cost for performance-based RSUs presented in the table above to be recognized.
Item 3 of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, filed with the SEC on February 15, 2019 describes certain of our legal proceedings.
The 2007 Program authorizes the grant of phantom stock units to the extent provided for in the Company’s employment agreements with certain executives.
The marketable securities held in the rabbi trusts are valued using quoted market prices on the last business day of the period.
The convertible senior debentures due 2042 have been fully repurchased, and the trustee has confirmed that the Company has satisfied and discharged its obligations under the indenture governing the convertible senior debentures due 2042.We define variable costs as expenses that vary with respect to quantity produced.
GAAP requires that we identify the “functional currency” of each of our subsidiaries and measure all elements of the financial statements in that functional currency.
The financial maintenance covenants include (a) an interest expense coverage ratio of not less than 2.00 to 1; and (b) a leverage ratio of not more than 3.25 to 1 (and a pro forma ratio of 2.75 to 1 on the date of incurrence of additional debt).
The book-to-bill ratios in the first fiscal quarter of 2019 for distributors and original equipment manufacturers ("OEM") were 0.54 and 1.10, respectively, versus ratios of 0.90 and 0.98, respectively, during the fourth fiscal quarter of 2018.
In this volatile economic environment, we continue to focus on the generation of free cash, including an emphasis on cost controls.
At March 30, 2019, no amounts are outstanding under our credit facility.
End-of-period backlog is one indicator of future revenues.
Analysis of revenues and gross profit margins for our segments is provided below.
We invest a portion of our excess cash in highly liquid, high-quality instruments with maturities greater than 90 days, but less than 1 year, which we classify as short-term investments on our consolidated balance sheets.
We define free cash as the cash flows generated from continuing operations less capital expenditures plus net proceeds from the sale of property and equipment.
While these subsidiaries transact most business in U.S. dollars, they may have significant costs, particularly payroll-related, which are incurred in the local currency. Item 1.