fls.txt



item1.txt
The Company has a limited number of contracts for custom products that meet the criteria to recognize revenue over time.
No adjustments were recorded during the first fiscal quarter of 2018.
The Company's short-term investments are accounted for as held-to-maturity debt instruments, at amortized cost, which approximates their fair value.
The Company is currently evaluating the effect of the ASU on its lease contracts.
Revenue is measured based on the consideration specified in contracts with customers, and excludes any sales incentives and amounts collected on behalf of third parties.
Substantially all of the Company's receivables are collected within twelve months of the transfer of products to the customer and the Company expects this to continue going forward.
The Company has not restated completed contracts that begin and end in the same annual reporting period; used the transaction price at the date the contract was completed rather than estimating variable consideration amounts in the comparative reporting periods; has not disclosed the amount of the transaction price allocated to the remaining performance obligations and an explanation of when the Company expects to recognize the amount as revenue for the reporting periods presented prior to January 1, 2016; and has not retrospectively restated the contract for modifications made prior to January 1, 2016 and instead reflected the aggregate effect of all modifications when identifying the satisfied and unsatisfied performance obligations, determining the transaction price and allocating the transaction price pursuant to the transition practical expedients available.
The Company applies the practical expedient within ASU 2014-09 to all of its contracts with payment terms less than or equal to twelve months and does not recognize a financing component of the transaction price.
Revenue is measured based on the consideration specified in contracts with customers, and excludes any sales incentives and amounts collected on behalf of third parties.


item2.txt
We evaluate business segment performance on segment operating margin.
See additional information in Note 1 to the consolidated condensed financial statements included in Item 1.
The positive business climate mostly eliminated the pricing pressure for our established Diodes products.
In response to the TCJA, the Staff of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
We expect that cash on-hand and cash flows from operations will be sufficient to meet our longer-term financing needs related to normal operating requirements, regular dividend payments, and our research and development and capital expenditure plans.
The gross profit margin in the first fiscal quarter of 2018 increased versus the prior quarter and the prior year quarter.
Some of this 2018 capital spending represents an acceleration of expected expansion from later years of our long-range plan.
Contributive margin is calculated as net revenue less variable costs.
We continued to generate positive cash flows from operations and free cash during the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2018.
The classification of expenses as either variable or fixed is judgmental and other companies might classify such expenses differently.
While the convertible debentures due 2040 and 2042 are currently convertible at the option of the holders, none of the convertible debentures are currently callable by us.
118, the net tax expense recorded in our financial statements for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2017 due to the enactment of the TCJA is considered "provisional," based on reasonable estimates.
The forward contracts are carried at fair value in our consolidated condensed balance sheets.
The classification of expenses as either variable or fixed is judgmental and other companies might classify such expenses differently.
Contributive margin is calculated as net revenue less variable costs.
Management uses this measure to determine the amount of profit to be expected for any change in revenues.
Average selling prices decreased slightly versus the prior quarter and prior year quarter, consistent with our historical experience.


item3.txt



item4.txt
  10.4   Employment Agreement, dated February 15, 2018, between Vishay Singapore Pte.


part2.txt
  31.1   Certification pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) or 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 - Dr. Gerald Paul, Chief Executive Officer.
  10.2   Third Amendment to Terms and Conditions of Johan Vandoorn Employment Agreement, dated February 15, 2018.


