fls.txt



item1.txt
The Company reports interim financial information for 13-week periods beginning on a Sunday and ending on a Saturday, except for the first fiscal quarter, which always begins on January 1, and the fourth fiscal quarter, which always ends on December 31.
Management believes that evaluating segment performance excluding such items is meaningful because it provides insight with respect to intrinsic operating results of the Company.
The Company’s convertible debt instruments are only convertible for specified periods upon the occurrence of certain events.
Under the “treasury stock method,” Vishay calculates the number of shares issuable under the terms of the debentures based on the average market price of Vishay common stock during the period, and that number is included in the total diluted shares figure for the period.
The Company has elected to not separate contract consideration for lease and non-lease components for its building leases.
The Company uses the rate implicit in the contract whenever possible when determining the applicable discount rate.
Management believes that evaluating segment performance excluding such items is meaningful because it provides insight with respect to intrinsic operating results of the Company.
The nonrecurring fair value measurement is considered a Level 3 measurement.
The fair value measurement of the marketable securities held in the rabbi trust is considered a Level 1 measurement and the measurement of the company-owned life insurance assets is considered a Level 2 measurement within the fair value hierarchy.


item2.txt
Since 1985, we have pursued a business strategy of growth through focused research and development and acquisitions.
We used substantially all of the proceeds from the issuance and the repatriated amounts to reduce the outstanding balance of the credit facility to zero, to repay certain intercompany indebtedness, and to fund our 2018 repurchases of convertible senior debentures.
We occasionally use forward exchange contracts to economically hedge a portion of these exposures.
Additionally, our convertible senior debentures due 2040 and due 2041 and our convertible senior notes due 2025 have cross-default provisions that could accelerate repayment in the event the indebtedness under the credit facility is accelerated.
The payment of these cash taxes significantly impacted cash flows from operations and free cash for the year ended December 31, 2018 and nine fiscal months ended September 28, 2019.
Through this strategy, we have grown to become one of the world’s largest manufacturers of discrete semiconductors and passive components.
Analysis of revenues and gross profit margins for our segments is provided below.
The credit facility also limits or restricts us from, among other things, incurring indebtedness, incurring liens on its respective assets, making investments and acquisitions (assuming our pro forma leverage ratio is greater than 2.75 to 1.00), making asset sales, and paying cash dividends and making other restricted payments (assuming our pro forma leverage ratio is greater than 2.50 to 1.00), and requires us to comply with other covenants, including the maintenance of specific financial ratios.
Accordingly, our effective tax rate has historically been less than the U.S. statutory rate, except in years where there are material discrete items.
On May 7, 2018, our Board of Directors increased the quarterly dividend to $0.085 per share, representing a 26% increase over the previous quarterly dividend.
We define free cash as the cash flows generated from continuing operations less capital expenditures plus net proceeds from the sale of property and equipment.
The cash generated from operations is used to fund our capital expenditure plans, and cash in excess of our capital expenditure needs is available to fund our acquisition strategy, to reduce debt levels, and to pay dividends and repurchase stock.
As a result of this repatriation, we paid cash taxes of $92.1 million and $64.7 million in the second and third fiscal quarters of 2018, respectively.
We believe that evaluating segment performance excluding such items is meaningful because it provides insight with respect to intrinsic operating results of the segment.
If our pro forma leverage ratio is greater than 2.50 to 1.00, the credit facility allows such payments up to $100 million per annum (subject to a cap of $300 million for the term of the facility, with up to $25 million of any unused amount of the $100 million per annum base available for use in the next succeeding calendar year).
The MD&A should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements and accompanying Notes included in Item 1.
We have paid dividends each quarter since the first fiscal quarter of 2014, and further increased the quarterly cash dividend by 12% to $0.095 per share in the second fiscal quarter of 2019.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 – Lori Lipcaman, Chief Financial Officer.


part2.txt
Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 – Lori Lipcaman, Chief Financial Officer.


