fls.txt



item1.txt
As a result, the Company has changed its accounting policy for pension and other postretirement benefits costs as detailed below.
The Company has entered into forward contracts with highly-rated financial institutions to mitigate the foreign currency risk associated with intercompany loans denominated in a currency other than the legal entity's functional currency.
The Company has framework agreements with many of its customers that contain the terms and conditions of future sales, but do not create enforceable rights or obligations.
The Company recognizes the estimated variable consideration to be received as revenue and records a related accrued expense for the consideration not expected to be received, based upon its estimate of product returns, scrap allowances, "stock, ship and debit" credits, and price protection credits that will be attributable to sales recorded through the end of the period.
The Company pays commissions to external sales representatives on a per-sale basis.
In June 2018, the Company issued $600,000 aggregate principal amount of 2.25% convertible senior notes due 2025 to qualified institutional investors.
Business segment assets are the owned or allocated assets used by each business.
Prior to December 15, 2024, such conversion is subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions set forth below.
Holy Stone has agreed to indemnify VPC for losses, including penalties and expenses associated with the decision described above.
If the average market price is less than $12.81, no shares are included in the diluted earnings per share computation for the convertible senior debentures due 2040, if the average market price is less than $17.56, no shares are included in the diluted earnings per share computation for the convertible senior debentures due 2041, if the average market price is less than $10.90, no shares are included in the diluted earnings per share computation for the convertible senior debentures due 2042, and if the average market price is less than $31.49, no shares are included in the diluted earnings per share computation for the convertible senior notes due 2025.


item2.txt
We expect to continue to be in compliance with these covenants based on current projections.
We utilized a portion of the cash repatriated to the U.S. in the third fiscal quarter of 2018 to reduce the outstanding balance of the credit facility to zero.
Accordingly, our effective tax rate has historically been less than the U.S. statutory rate, except in years where there are material discrete items.
Net revenues of the Capacitors segment for the fiscal quarter and nine fiscal months ended September 29, 2018 increased significantly versus the prior year periods and moderately versus the prior fiscal quarter.
We finance our operations in Europe and certain locations in Asia in local currencies, and accordingly, these subsidiaries utilize the local currency as their functional currency.
We may record additional adjustments to refine those estimates during the measurement period, as additional analysis is completed.
These types of remeasurement adjustments will continue until the amounts are repatriated.
A portion of the amounts repatriated in the third fiscal quarter were used to eliminate the remaining outstanding balance of the credit facility.
The key financial metrics continue to be strong even as distributors, particularly of semiconductor products in Asia, normalized their backlogs during the third fiscal quarter.
We used the net proceeds from this offering to repurchase $220.0 million and $69.1 million principal amounts of convertible senior debentures due 2040 and 2042, respectively, for $585.0 million.
The cash generated from operations is used to fund our capital expenditure plans, and cash in excess of our capital expenditure needs is available to fund our acquisition strategy, to reduce debt levels, and to pay dividends and repurchase stock.
A higher level of inventory turnover reflects more efficient use of our capital.
These types of remeasurement adjustments will continue until the amounts are repatriated.
Our U.S. subsidiaries have other operating cash needs.
We expect dividend payments in 2018 to total approximately $46.5 million.


item3.txt
Holy Stone has agreed to indemnify VPC for losses, including penalties and expenses associated with the decision described above.
Concurrently, the KFTC issued a corrective order prohibiting VPC from engaging in similar activities again and referred the matter to the Korean Ministry of Justice for further review.


item4.txt



part2.txt
  31.2   Certification pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) or 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 - Lori Lipcaman, Chief Financial Officer.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


