Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
•Inability to recruit and retain a sufficient number of employees with specialized skill sets or necessary security clearances who are in great demand and limited supply;
•Issues relating to competing effectively for awards procured through the competitive bidding process, including the adverse impact of delays caused by competitors' protests of contract awards received by us;
•Failure to obtain option awards, task orders or funding under contracts;
•Failure to realize the full amount of our backlog, or adverse changes in the timing of receipt of revenue under contracts included in backlog;
•Renegotiation, modification or termination of our contracts, or failure to perform in conformity with contract terms or our expectations;
•Disruption of our business or damage to our reputation resulting from security breaches in customer systems, internal systems or service failures (including as a result of cyber or other security threats), or employee or subcontractor misconduct;
•Increased exposure to risks associated with conducting business internationally;
•Non-compliance with, or adverse changes in, complex U.S. government laws, procurement regulations or processes; and
•Adverse results of U.S. government audits or other investigations of our government contracts.
Overview
On March 23, 2018, the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2018 was signed into law. The Act funds the government through September 30, 2018 and marks the third consecutive year of budget growth. The U.S. Government fiscal year (GFY) 2018 appropriations and U.S. GFY 2019 budget request include near term expansions of budgets for the Department of Defense aligned with the Administration's stated priorities in dealing with significant global threats, readiness and force structure needs within the military, diplomatic, homeland and border security, and cyber aggressions by both state and non-state actors. However, U.S. GFY 2019 and future years funding appropriations continue to be debated in normal course by Congress with the consideration of policy priorities, national budget deficits, debt ceilings and the Budget Control Act (BCA).
We recommend that you read this discussion and analysis in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Three Months Ended June 30, 2018 Compared to the Three Months Ended June 30, 2017 
Revenue
The primary driver of our increase in revenues relates to revenues from new contract awards, growth on certain existing contracts and acquisitions. These increases were offset by contracts and tasks that ended and reduced scope of work on some contracts.
Cost of services 
The increase in cost of services was primarily due to increases in revenue. As a percentage of revenue, direct labor costs were 48% for the three months ended June 30, 2018, compared to 49% for the same period in 2017. As a percentage of revenues, other direct costs, which include subcontractors and third party equipment and materials used in the performance of our contracts, was 37% for the three months ended June 30, 2018, compared to 36% fo the same period in 2017. 
General and administrative expenses 
Interest expense
The increase in interest expense was due to increased borrowings under our credit facility to fund the acquisition of InfoZen in the fourth quarter of 2017 and the purchase of equipment to support a managed IT services contract. For additional information on the acquisition of InfoZen, see Note 4. Acquisitions to our condensed consolidated financial statements in Item I.
Six Months Ended June 30, 2018 Compared to the Six Months Ended June 30, 2017 
Revenue
The primary driver of our increase in revenue relates to revenues from new contract awards, growth on existing contracts, including higher levels of material procurements, and acquisitions. These increases were offset by contracts and tasks that ended and reduced scope of work on some contracts.
Cost of services 
The increase in cost of services was primarily due to increases in revenue. As a percentage of revenue, direct labor costs were 48% for the six months ended June 30, 2018, compared to 49% for the same period in 2017. As a percentage of revenue, other direct costs, which include subcontractors as well as equipment and materials used in the performance of our contracts, was 37% for the six months ended June 30, 2018 compared to 36% for the same period in 2017. We expect cost of services as a percentage of revenues to slightly increase for the remainder of 2018 due to typically higher levels of materials in the second half of the year.
General and administrative expenses 
The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to an increase in bid and proposal spending, amortization of acquired intangibles and expenditures to support infrastructure. 
Interest expense
The increase in interest expense was due to increased borrowings under our credit facility to fund the acquisition of InfoZen in the fourth quarter of 2017 and the purchase of equipment to support a managed IT services contract. For additional information on the acquisition of InfoZen, see Note 4. Acquisitions to our condensed consolidated financial statements in Item I.
Backlog
We define funded backlog to be the portion of backlog for which funding currently is appropriated and allocated to the contract by the purchasing agency or otherwise authorized for payment by the customer upon completion of a specific portion of work. Our funded backlog does not include the full value of our contracts because Congress often appropriates funds for a particular program or contract on a yearly or quarterly basis, even though the contract may call for performance over a much longer period of time.
A variety of circumstances or events may cause changes in the amount of our backlog and funded backlog, including the execution of new contracts, the extension of existing contracts, the non-renewal or completion of current contracts, the early termination of contracts, and adjustment to estimates for previously included contracts. Changes in the amount of our funded backlog also are affected by the funding cycles of the government.
At June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, our backlog was $7.8 billion and $7.1 billion, respectively. Our funded backlog was $1.3 billion and $1.4 billion as of June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017. 
Our primary liquidity needs relate to managing working capital, financing acquisitions, making cash dividend payments, purchasing property and equipment and investing in capital software. Our primary sources of liquidity are cash from operating activities and borrowings under our revolving credit facility. On June 30, 2018, our cash and cash equivalents balance was $7.2 million. There were $29.5 million outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility at June 30, 2018. The maximum available borrowings under our revolving credit facility at June 30, 2018 were $455.2 million. As of June 30, 2018, we were contingently liable under letters of credit totaling $15.3 million, which reduces our availability to borrow under our revolving credit facility. 
Our operating cash flow is primarily affected by our ability to invoice and collect from our customers in a timely manner, our management of vendor payments and the overall profitability of our contracts. We bill most of our customers monthly after services are rendered. Our accounts receivable days sales outstanding were 68 and 69 for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. For the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, our net cash from operating activities was $35.0 million and $63.3 million, respectively. The decrease in net cash flows from operating activities during the six months ended June 30, 2018 when compared to the same period in 2017 was primarily due to the timing of receivables.
Cash Flows From (Used In) Investing Activities
For the six months ended June 30, 2018 our net cash used in investing activities was $20.1 million, which was primarily used for the purchase of equipment to support a managed IT service contract, infrastructure investments and capitalized software for internal use. For the six months ended June 30, 2017 our net cash used in investing activities was $6.9 million, which was used for capital expenditures. For the remainder of the year, we expect increased levels of capital expenditures, as compared to prior years, for the purchase of equipment to support managed IT service contracts.
For the six months ended June 30, 2018, our net cash used in financing activities was $17.2 million, which was primarily due to dividend payments. For the six months ended June 30, 2017, our net cash used in financing activities were $13.1 million, which were primarily due to dividends paid partially offset by the proceeds from the exercise of stock options. 
Revolving Credit Facility
We believe the capital resources available to us from cash on hand, our remaining capacity under our revolving credit facility, and cash from our operations are adequate to fund our anticipated cash requirements for at least the next year. We anticipate financing our internal and external growth through cash from operating activities, borrowings under our revolving credit facility or other debt and issuance of equity.
To the extent possible, we invest our available cash in short-term, investment grade securities in accordance with our investment policy. Under our investment policy, we manage our investments in accordance with the priorities of maintaining the safety of our principal, maintaining the liquidity of our investments, maximizing the yield on our investments and investing our cash to the fullest extent possible. Our investment policy provides that no investment security can have a final maturity that exceeds six months and that the weighted average maturity of the portfolio cannot exceed 60 days. Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, amounts due from banks and short-term investments with maturity dates of three months or less at the date of purchase.
Dividend
In the ordinary course of business, we use letters of credit issued to satisfy certain contractual terms with our customers. As of June 30, 2018, $15.3 million in letters of credit were issued but undrawn. We have an outstanding performance bond in connection with a contract between ManTech MENA, LLC and Jadwalean International Operations and Management Company to fulfill technical support requirements for the Royal Saudi Air Force. This performance bond is guaranteed by a letter of credit in the amount of $15.2 million. We have off-balance sheet arrangements related to operating leases. For a description of our operating leases, see our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, previously filed with the SEC.
Critical Accounting Estimates and Policies
Revenue Recognition and Cost Estimation
We recognize revenue over time when there is a continuous transfer of control to our customer. For our U.S. government contracts, this continuous transfer of control to the customer is supported by clauses in the contract that allow the U.S. government to unilaterally terminate the contract for convenience, pay us for costs incurred plus a reasonable profit and take control of any work in process. When control is transferred over time, revenue is recognized based on the extent of progress towards completion of the performance obligation. Based on the nature of the products and services provided in the contract, we use our judgment to determine if an input measure or output measure best depicts the transfer of control over time. For services contracts, we typically satisfy our performance obligations as services are rendered and use a contract cost-based input method to measure progress. Contract costs include labor, material and allocable indirect expenses. Revenue is recognized proportionally as contract costs are incurred plus estimated fees. For time-and-material contracts, we bill the customer per labor hour and per material, and revenue is recognized in the amount invoiced since the amount corresponds directly to the value of our performance to date. For stand-ready service contracts, a time-elapsed output method is used to measure progress, and revenue is recognized straight-line over the term of the contract. If a contract does not meet the criteria for recognizing revenue over time, we recognize revenue at a point in time. Revenue is recognized at the point in time when control of the good or service is transferred to our customer. We consider control to transfer when we have a present right to payment and our customer has legal title. Determining a measure of progress and when control transfers requires us to make judgments that affect the timing of when revenue is recognized. Essentially all of our contracts satisfy their performance obligations over time.
ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606) supersedes existing revenue recognition guidance, including ASC 605-35, Revenue Recognition - Construction-Type and Production-Type Contracts. ASU 2014-09 outlines a single set of comprehensive principles for recognizing revenue under GAAP. Among other things, it requires companies to identify contractual performance obligations and determine whether revenue should be recognized at a point in time or over time. It also requires new, expanded disclosures regarding revenue recognition. We elected to adopt using the modified retrospective method that applied to those contracts that were not substantially completed as of January 1, 2018. We recognized the cumulative effect of adopting ASC 606 as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the amount of $0.8 million, with the impact primarily related to fixed-price contracts. Results for reporting periods beginning after January 1, 2018 are presented under ASC 606, while prior period amounts were not adjusted and reported in accordance with ASC 605, Revenue Recognition. Revenue for the six months ended June 30, 2018 increased $0.9 million as a result of applying ASC 606.
required to apply modification accounting under the amendments in ASU 2017-09. The adoption of this ASU did not have an effect on our condensed consolidated financial statements. 
TCJA, the underlying guidance that requires that the effect of a change in tax laws or rates be included in income from continuing operations is not affected. Additionally it requires financial statement preparers to disclose (1) a description of their accounting policy for releasing income tax effects from accumulated other comprehensive income, (2) whether they elect to reclassify the stranded income tax effects from the TCJA, and (3) information about other income tax effects related to the application of the TCJA that are reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income to retained earnings, if any. The amendments are effective for annual periods, and for interim periods within those annual periods, beginning after December 15, 2018. Early adoption is permitted, including adoption in any interim period, for reporting periods for which financial statements have not yet been issued. We do not expect the adoption of this ASU to have a material effect on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
