Item 1.Financial Statements
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
3.Revenue from Contracts with Customers
On January 1, 2018, we adopted Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers using the modified retrospective method applied to those contracts that were not substantially complete as of January 1, 2018. ASC 606 outlines a five-step model whereby revenue is recognized as performance obligations within the contract are satisfied. ASC 606 also requires new, expanded disclosures regarding revenue recognition. We recognized the cumulative effect of adopting ASC 606 as an increase to the 2018 opening balance of retained earnings in the amount of $0.8 million, with the impact primarily related to fixed-price contracts. 
The following tables disclose revenue (in thousands) by contract type, customer, prime or subcontractor and geography for the periods presented. 
For the three months ended March 31, 2019, the amount of revenue that was included in the opening contract liabilities balance was $18.0 million. 
The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued ASC 842, Leases, to increase transparency and comparability among organizations by requiring the recognition of right of use (ROU) assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet. Most prominent among the changes in ASC 842 is the recognition of ROU assets and lease liabilities by lessees for those leases classified as operating leases. Under the standard, disclosures are required to meet the objective of enabling users of financial statements to assess the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases. We are also required to recognize and measure leases existing at, or entered into after, the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented using a modified retrospective approach, with certain practical expedients available.
Our ROU asset is recognized as the lease liability, any initial indirect costs and any prepaid lease payments, less any lease incentives. Our lease liabilities are recognized based on the present value of the future minimum lease payments over the lease term at commencement date. Our lease payments consist of amounts relating to the use of the underlying asset during the lease term, specifically fixed payments, payment to be made in optional periods when we are reasonably certain to exercise an option to extend the lease or not to exercise an option to terminate the lease and the amounts probable of being owned by us under residual 
guarantees. Our variable lease payments are excluded in measuring ROU asset and lease liability because they do not depend on an index or a rate or are not in substance fixed payments. We exclude lease incentives and initial direct cost incurred from our lease payments. Our leases typically do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at the commencement date in determining the present value of future payments.
For operating leases, after lease commencement, we measure our lease liability for each period at the present value of any remaining lease payments, discounted by using the rate determined at lease commencement. In our condensed consolidated statement of income, we recognize a single operating lease expense calculated on a straight-line basis over the remaining lease term. The amortization of the ROU asset increases each year as a result of the declining lease liability balance. Variable lease payments are not recognized in the measurement of the lease liability - they are recognized in the period in which the related obligation has been incurred.
For finance leases, after lease commencement, we measure our lease liability by using the effective interest rate method. In each period, the lease liability will be increased to reflect the interest that is accrued on the related lease liability by using the appropriate discount rate, offset by a decrease in the lease liability resulting from the periodic lease payments. We recognize the ROU asset at cost, reduced by any accumulated depreciation. The ROU asset is depreciated on a straight-line basis. Together, the interest expense and amortization expense result in a front-loaded expense profile. We will present interest expense and depreciation expense separately on our condensed consolidated statement of income.
We have operating and finance leases for real estate, transportation vehicles and equipment. Our variable lease payments do not depend on an index or a rate or are not in substance fixed payments. Our leases have remaining lease terms of 0.1 years to 11 years, some of which include options to extend the leases for up to 14 years, and some of which include options to terminate the leases within 1 year. Our transportation vehicles and equipment leases include a residual value guarantee, which is a guarantee made to the lessor that the value of the underlying asset returned to the lessor at the end of the lease will be at least a specific amount. We sublease some of our real estate lease space, resulting in sublease income of $23 thousand as of the three months ended March 31, 2019. We do not have any leases that have not yet commenced due to construction or design of the underlying asset. We recognize payments related to short-term leases (less than one year) as profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the lease term and variable leases payments in the period in which the obligation for those payment is incurred. As such, our short-term lease expense as of March 31, 2019 under ASC 842 was $1.4 million. For the three months ended March 31, 2019, we incurred variable lease costs of $0.5 million. 
Basic earnings per share has been computed by dividing net income available to common stockholders by the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during each period. Shares issued during the period and shares reacquired during the period are weighted for the portion of the period in which the shares were outstanding. Diluted earnings per share have been computed in a manner consistent with that of basic earnings per share while giving effect to all potentially dilutive common shares that were outstanding during each period.
Depreciation and amortization expense related to property and equipment for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 was $6.3 million and $5.9 million, respectively.
The terms of the credit agreement permit prepayment and termination of the loan commitments at any time, subject to certain conditions. The credit agreement requires us to comply with specified financial covenants, including the maintenance of certain leverage ratios and a certain consolidated coverage ratio. The credit agreement also contains various covenants, including affirmative covenants with respect to certain reporting requirements and maintaining certain business activities, and negative covenants that, among other things, may limit or impose restrictions on our ability to incur liens, incur additional indebtedness, make investments, make acquisitions and undertake certain other actions. As of and during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, we were in compliance with the financial covenants under the credit agreement.
We have $7.7 million outstanding on our letter of credit, of which $14 thousand is related to an outstanding performance bond in connection with a contract between ManTech MENA, LLC and Jadwalean International Operations and Management Company to fulfill technical support requirements for the Royal Saudi Air Force.
Our 2016 Management Incentive Plan (the Plan) was designed to attract, retain and motivate key employees. The types of awards available under the Plan include, among others, stock options, restricted stock and restricted stock units (RSUs). Equity awards granted under the Plan are settled in shares of Class A common stock. At the beginning of each year, the Plan provides that the number of shares available for issuance automatically increases by an amount equal to 1.5% of the total number of shares of Class A and Class B common stock outstanding on December 31st of the previous year. On January 2, 2019, there were 596,422 additional shares made available for issuance under the Plan. Through March 31, 2019, the Board of Directors has authorized the issuance of up to 15,148,321 shares under this Plan. Through March 31, 2019, the remaining aggregate number of shares of our common stock available for future grants under the Plan was 6,685,056. The Plan expires in March 2026.
The Plan is administered by the compensation committee of our Board of Directors, along with its delegates. Subject to the express provisions of the Plan, the committee has the Board of Directors’ authority to administer and interpret the Plan, including the discretion to determine the exercise price, vesting schedule, contractual life and the number of shares to be issued.
Stock Compensation Expense—For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, we recorded $1.3 million and $1.1 million of stock-based compensation expense. No compensation expense of employees with stock awards, including stock-based compensation expense, was capitalized during the periods. For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, we recorded $0.2 million and $1.1 million, respectively, to income tax benefit related to the exercise of stock options, vested cancellations and the vesting of restricted stock.
Stock Options—Under the Plan, we have issued stock options. A stock option gives the holder the right, but not the obligation to purchase a certain number of shares at a predetermined price for a specific period of time. We typically issue options that vest over three years in equal installments beginning on the first anniversary of the date of grant. Under the terms of the Plan, the 
contractual life of the option grants may not exceed eight years. During the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, we issued options that expire five years from the date of grant.
Fair Value Determination—We have used the Black-Scholes-Merton option pricing model to determine the fair value of our awards on the date of grant. We will reconsider the use of the Black-Scholes-Merton model if additional information becomes available in the future that indicates another model would be more appropriate or if grants issued in future periods have characteristics that cannot be reasonably estimated under this model.
•Risk-free interest rate—The yield on zero-coupon U.S. Treasury strips was used to extrapolate a forward-yield curve. This “term structure” of future interest rates was then input into a numeric model to provide the equivalent risk-free rate to be used in the Black-Scholes-Merton model based on the expected term of the underlying grants.
Stock Option Activity—The weighted-average fair value of options granted during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, as determined under the Black-Scholes-Merton valuation model, was $10.04 and $9.96, respectively. Option grants that vested during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 had a combined fair value of $1.2 million and $0.7 million, respectively.
Unrecognized compensation expense related to non-vested awards was $7.3 million as of March 31, 2019, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2 years.
Restricted Stock—Under the Plan, we have issued restricted stock. A restricted stock award is an issuance of shares that cannot be sold or transferred by the recipient until the vesting period lapses. Restricted stock issued to members of our Board of Directors vest on the one year anniversary of the grant date. The related compensation expense is recognized over the service period and is based on the grant date fair value of the stock. The grant date fair value of the restricted stock is equal to the closing market price of our common stock on the date of grant.
Restricted Stock Activity— There was no restricted stock activity during the three months ended March 31, 2019. The following table summarizes the restricted stock activity during the year ended December 31, 2018.
RSUs—Under the Plan, we have issued RSUs. RSUs are not actual shares, but rather a right to receive shares in the future. The shares are not issued and the employee cannot sell or transfer shares prior to vesting and have no voting rights until the RSUs vest. Employees who are granted RSUs do not receive dividend payments during the vesting period. Our employees have been granted performance-based RSUs and time-based RSUs. Performance-based RSUs result in the delivery of shares only if (a) performance criteria is met and (b) the employee remains employed, in good standing, through the date of the performance period. 
Time-based RSUs vest in one-third increments on the first, second and third anniversaries of the date of grant. The grant date fair value of the RSUs is equal to the closing market price of our common stock on the grant date less the present value of dividends expected to be awarded during the service period. We recognize the grant date fair value of RSUs of shares we expect to issue as compensation expense ratably over the requisite service period.
Acquisition of Kforce Government Solutions
On April 1, 2019, we completed the acquisition of Kforce Government Solutions (KGS). KGS was a wholly owned subsidiary of the publicly traded commercial technology and staffing company Kforce, Inc. KGS provides IT solutions, transformation and management consulting, data analytics - most notably in the healthcare IT market. This acquisition will also expand our presence with important customers such as the Department of Veteran Affairs (VA). As specialists in serving the IT needs of defense and federal civilian agencies, KGS complements and builds on our core capabilities and solutions, adding the high-value specialty of health care IT. KGS has delivered innovation and sustainable solutions that transformed technology and business operations to drive enhanced mission execution for these customers. In addition to the VA, KGS's customers include the National Science Foundation, the Federal Reserve System, Defense Threat Reduction Agency, U.S. Air Force and U.S. Transportation Command. We funded the acquisition with cash on hand and borrowings under on revolving credit facility. The preliminary purchase price was $115.0 million.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
