Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
•Inability to recruit and retain a sufficient number of employees with specialized skill sets or necessary security clearances who are in great demand and limited supply;
•Issues relating to competing effectively for awards procured through the competitive bidding process, including the adverse impact of delays caused by competitors' protests of contract awards received by us;
•Failure to obtain option awards, task orders or funding under contracts;
•Failure to realize the full amount of our backlog, or adverse changes in the timing of receipt of revenue under contracts included in backlog;
•Renegotiation, modification or termination of our contracts, or failure to perform in conformity with contract terms or our expectations;
•Disruption of our business or damage to our reputation resulting from security breaches in customer systems, internal systems or service failures (including as a result of cyber or other security threats), or employee or subcontractor misconduct;
•Increased exposure to risks associated with conducting business internationally;
•Non-compliance with, or adverse changes in, complex U.S. government laws, procurement regulations or processes; and
•Adverse results of U.S. government audits or other investigations of our government contracts.
Overview
On September 28, 2018, the President signed into law appropriations funding approximately 75% of the U.S. government, including the Department of Defense, through U.S. Government fiscal year (GFY) 2019. However, a number of federal civilian agencies, including the Departments of Homeland Security and State, have been funded under a Continuing Resolution (CR) at 2018 funding levels through early December 2018. Appropriations for the Department of Defense include near term expansions that aligned with the Administration's stated priorities in dealing with significant global threats, readiness and force structure needs within the military, diplomatic, and cyber aggressions by both state and non-state actors. For agencies operating under the CR, funding appropriations are expected to be debated by Congress after the midterm elections. We expect future appropriations to be debated with the consideration of policy priorities, national budget deficits, debt ceilings and the Budget Control Act.
We recommend that you read this discussion and analysis in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Three Months Ended September 30, 2018 Compared to the Three Months Ended September 30, 2017 
Revenue
The primary driver of our increase in revenues relates to revenues from new contract awards and growth on certain existing contracts and acquisitions. These increases were offset by contracts and tasks that ended and reduced scope of work on some contracts.
Cost of services 
The increase in cost of services was primarily due to increases in revenue. As a percentage of revenue, direct labor costs were 46% for the three months ended September 30, 2018, compared to 48% for the same period in 2017. As a percentage of revenues, other direct costs, which include subcontractors and third party equipment and materials used in the performance of our contracts, was 39% for the three months ended September 30, 2018, compared to 38% for the same period in 2017. 
General and administrative expenses 
Interest expense
The increase in interest expense was due to increased borrowings under our credit facility to fund the acquisition of InfoZen in the fourth quarter of 2017 and the purchase of equipment to support a managed IT services contract. For additional information on the acquisition of InfoZen, see Note 4. Acquisitions to our condensed consolidated financial statements in Item I.
Nine Months Ended September 30, 2018 Compared to the Nine Months Ended September 30, 2017 
Revenue
The primary driver of our increase in revenue relates to revenues from new contract awards and growth on existing contracts, including higher levels of material procurements, and acquisitions. These increases were offset by contracts and tasks that ended and reduced scope of work on some contracts.
Cost of services 
The increase in cost of services was primarily due to increases in revenue. As a percentage of revenue, direct labor costs were 48% for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to 49% for the same period in 2017. As a percentage of revenue, other direct costs, which include subcontractors as well as equipment and materials used in the performance of our contracts, was 38% for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to 37% for the same period in 2017. We expect cost of services as a percentage of revenues to remain steady or slightly increase for the remainder of 2018 due to the potential for higher levels of materials in the last quarter of the year.
General and administrative expenses 
The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to an increase in bid and proposal spending, amortization of acquired intangibles and expenditures to support infrastructure. 
Interest expense
The increase in interest expense was due to increased borrowings under our credit facility to fund the acquisition of InfoZen in the fourth quarter of 2017 and the purchase of equipment to support a managed IT services contract. For additional information on the acquisition of InfoZen, see Note 4 to our condensed consolidated financial statements in Item I.
Backlog
We define funded backlog to be the portion of backlog for which funding currently is appropriated and allocated to the contract by the purchasing agency or otherwise authorized for payment by the customer upon completion of a specific portion of work. Our funded backlog does not include the full value of our contracts because Congress often appropriates funds for a particular program or contract on a yearly or quarterly basis, even though the contract may call for performance over a much longer period of time.
A variety of circumstances or events may cause changes in the amount of our backlog and funded backlog, including the execution of new contracts, the extension of existing contracts, the non-renewal or completion of current contracts, the early termination of contracts, and adjustment to estimates for previously included contracts. Changes in the amount of our funded backlog also are affected by the funding cycles of the U.S. government.
At September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, our backlog was $8.3 billion and $7.1 billion, respectively. Our funded backlog was $1.3 billion and $1.4 billion as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017. 
Our primary liquidity needs relate to managing working capital, financing acquisitions, making cash dividend payments, purchasing property and equipment and investing in capital software. Our primary sources of liquidity are cash from operating activities and borrowings under our revolving credit facility. On September 30, 2018, our cash and cash equivalents balance was $15.0 million. There were no outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility at September 30, 2018. The maximum available borrowings under our revolving credit facility at September 30, 2018 were $484.7 million. As of September 30, 2018, we were contingently liable under letters of credit totaling $15.3 million, which reduces our availability to borrow under our revolving credit facility. 
Our operating cash flow is primarily affected by our ability to invoice and collect from our customers in a timely manner, our management of vendor payments and the overall profitability of our contracts. We bill most of our customers monthly after services are rendered. Our accounts receivable days sales outstanding were 67 and 68 for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. For the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, our net cash from operating activities was $94.2 million and $115.2 million, respectively. The decrease in net cash flows from operating activities during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 when compared to the same period in 2017 was primarily due to the timing of receivables collection.
Cash Flows From (Used In) Investing Activities
For the nine months ended September 30, 2018 our net cash used in investing activities was $36.8 million, which was primarily used for the purchase of equipment to support a managed IT service contract, infrastructure investments, closing working capital payment related to the purchase of InfoZen and capitalized software for internal use. For the nine months ended September 30, 2017 our net cash used in investing activities was $11.6 million, which was used for capital expenditures. For the remainder of the year, we expect similar levels of capital expenditures, as compared to the first nine months of the year, for the purchase of equipment to support our infrastructure and managed IT service contracts, with the potential for additional increases in future years.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2018, our net cash used in financing activities was $51.9 million, which was primarily due to repayment of borrowings under revolving credit facility dividend payments. For the nine months ended September 30, 2017, our net cash used in financing activities were $19.9 million, which were primarily due to dividends paid partially offset by the proceeds from the exercise of stock options. 
Revolving Credit Facility
We believe the capital resources available to us from cash on hand, our remaining capacity under our revolving credit facility, and cash from our operations are adequate to fund our anticipated cash requirements for at least the next year. We anticipate financing our internal and external growth through cash from operating activities, borrowings under our revolving credit facility or other debt and issuance of equity.
To the extent possible, we invest our available cash in short-term, investment grade securities in accordance with our investment policy. Under our investment policy, we manage our investments in accordance with the priorities of maintaining the safety of our principal, maintaining the liquidity of our investments, maximizing the yield on our investments and investing our cash to the fullest extent possible. Our investment policy provides that no investment security can have a final maturity that exceeds six months and that the weighted average maturity of the portfolio cannot exceed 60 days. Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, amounts due from banks and short-term investments with maturity dates of three months or less at the date of purchase.
Dividend
In the ordinary course of business, we use letters of credit issued to satisfy certain contractual terms with our customers. As of September 30, 2018, $15.3 million in letters of credit were issued but undrawn. We have an outstanding performance bond in connection with a contract between ManTech MENA, LLC and Jadwalean International Operations and Management Company to fulfill technical support requirements for the Royal Saudi Air Force. This performance bond is guaranteed by a letter of credit in the amount of $15.2 million. We have off-balance sheet arrangements related to operating leases. For a description of our operating leases, see our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, previously filed with the SEC.
Critical Accounting Estimates and Policies
Revenue Recognition and Cost Estimation
We recognize revenue over time when there is a continuous transfer of control to our customer. For our U.S. government contracts, this continuous transfer of control to the customer is supported by clauses in the contract that allow the U.S. government to unilaterally terminate the contract for convenience, pay us for costs incurred plus a reasonable profit and take control of any work in process. When control is transferred over time, revenue is recognized based on the extent of progress towards completion of the performance obligation. Based on the nature of the products and services provided in the contract, we use our judgment to determine if an input measure or output measure best depicts the transfer of control over time. For services contracts, we typically satisfy our performance obligations as services are rendered and use a contract cost-based input method to measure progress. Contract costs include labor, material and allocable indirect expenses. Revenue is recognized proportionally as contract costs are incurred plus estimated fees. For time-and-material contracts, we bill the customer per labor hour and per material, and revenue is recognized in the amount invoiced since the amount corresponds directly to the value of our performance to date. For stand-ready service contracts, a time-elapsed output method is used to measure progress, and revenue is recognized straight-line over the term of the contract. If a contract does not meet the criteria for recognizing revenue over time, we recognize revenue at a point in time. Revenue is recognized at the point in time when control of the good or service is transferred to our customer. We consider control to transfer when we have a present right to payment and our customer has legal title. Determining a measure of progress and when control transfers requires us to make judgments that affect the timing of when revenue is recognized. Essentially all of our contracts satisfy their performance obligations over time.
ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606) supersedes existing revenue recognition guidance, including ASC 605-35, Revenue Recognition - Construction-Type and Production-Type Contracts. ASU 2014-09 outlines a single set of comprehensive principles for recognizing revenue under GAAP. Among other things, it requires companies to identify contractual performance obligations and determine whether revenue should be recognized at a point in time or over time. It also requires new, expanded disclosures regarding revenue recognition. We elected to adopt using the modified retrospective method that applied to those contracts that were not substantially completed as of January 1, 2018. We recognized the cumulative effect of adopting ASC 606 as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the amount of $0.8 million, with the impact primarily related to fixed-price contracts. Results for reporting periods beginning after January 1, 2018 are presented under ASC 606, while prior period amounts were not adjusted and reported in accordance with ASC 605, Revenue Recognition. Revenue for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 increased $3.3 million as a result of applying ASC 606.
an entity is required to apply modification accounting under the amendments in ASU 2017-09. The adoption of this ASU did not have an effect on our condensed consolidated financial statements. 
The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842). ASU 2016-02 supersedes existing lease guidance, including ASC 840 - Leases. Among other things, ASU 2016-02 requires recognition of a right-of-use asset and liability for future lease payments for contracts that meet the definition of a lease and requires disclosure of certain information about leasing arrangements. ASU 2016-02 will be effective January 1, 2019, although early adoption is permitted, and may be adopted using a modified retrospective transition method that applies the new lease requirements at the beginning of the earliest period presented in the financial statements. The FASB has proposed a change that would allow a company to elect an optional transition method that applies the new lease requirements through a cumulative-effect adjustment in the period of adoption. We expect to adopt the standard on January 1, 2019. We are currently evaluating methods of adoption as well as the effect on our condensed consolidated financial statements. However, it is expected to increase total assets and total liabilities for operating leases that are not currently recorded on our condensed consolidated balance sheet.
the timing of liquidation of an investee’s assets and the date that restrictions from redemption might lapse, only if the investee has communicated the timing to the entity or announced the timing publicly; and (3) it is clear that the measurement uncertainty disclosure is to communicate information about the uncertainty in measurement as of the reporting date. Additionally, the ASU adds disclosure requirements for public entities about (1) the changes in unrealized gains and losses for the period included in other comprehensive income for recurring Level 3 fair value measurements held at the end of the reporting period, and (2) the range and weighted average of significant unobservable inputs used to develop Level 3 fair value measurements. The amendments are effective for fiscal years, and for interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2019. The amendments regarding changes in unrealized gains and losses, the range and weighted average of significant unobservable inputs used to develop Level 3 fair value measurements, and the narrative description of measurement uncertainty should be applied prospectively for only the most recent interim or annual period presented in the initial fiscal year of adoption. All other amendments should be applied retrospectively to all periods presented upon their effective date. Note that early application is permitted for all entities; moreover, an entity is allowed to early adopt any removed or modified disclosures upon issuance of this ASU and delay adoption of the additional disclosures until their effective date. We are currently evaluating when we will adopt this standard as well as its effect on our condensed consolidated financial statements. 
the stranded tax effects resulting from the TCJA, and improving the usefulness of information reported to financial statement users. Because the amendments only relate to the reclassification of the income tax effects of the TCJA, the underlying guidance that requires that the effect of a change in tax laws or rates be included in income from continuing operations is not affected. Additionally it requires financial statement preparers to disclose (1) a description of their accounting policy for releasing income tax effects from accumulated other comprehensive income, (2) whether they elect to reclassify the stranded income tax effects from the TCJA, and (3) information about other income tax effects related to the application of the TCJA that are reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income to retained earnings, if any. The amendments are effective for annual periods, and for interim periods within those annual periods, beginning after December 15, 2018. Early adoption is permitted, including adoption in any interim period, for reporting periods for which financial statements have not yet been issued. We do not expect the adoption of this ASU to have a material effect on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
