Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
•Inability to recruit and retain a sufficient number of employees with specialized skill sets or necessary security clearances who are in great demand and limited supply;
•Failure to realize the full amount of our backlog, or adverse changes in the timing of receipt of revenue under contracts included in backlog;
•Adverse results of U.S. government audits or other investigations of our government contracts;
•Issues relating to competing effectively for awards procured through the competitive bidding process, including the adverse impact of delays caused by competitors' protests of contract awards received by us;
•Failure to obtain option awards, task orders or funding under contracts;
•Renegotiation, modification or termination of our contracts, or failure to perform in conformity with contract terms or our expectations;
•Non-compliance with, or adverse changes in, complex U.S. government laws, procurement regulations or processes; 
•Increased exposure to risks associated with conducting business internationally.
Overview
Approximately 98% of our revenues are generated through contracts with the U.S. federal government. As such, our business is impacted by the overall U.S. government budget and our ability to match our capabilities and offerings to the U.S. government's spending priorities. Through legislation passed in September 2018 and February 2019, all agencies of the U.S. federal government were funded through Government fiscal year (GFY) 2019. In August 2019, Congress passed and the president signed a new two-year budget deal, the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2019. The Act effectively ended the threat of sequestration by increasing spending for GFY 2020 and 2021 above caps previously in place under the Budget Control Act. The GFY 2020 and 2021 budgets include increases for areas supporting national security. Despite the passage of a two year budget, Congress has not yet passed full year appropriations and as of October 1st, began operating under a Continuing Resolution (CR). If Congress is unable to approve appropriations by November 21st, the U.S. Government and its agencies may be subjected to funding restrictions through a CR or, if there is a failure to pass interim funding, a government shutdown. 
We recommend that you read this discussion and analysis in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Three Months Ended September 30, 2019 Compared to the Three Months Ended September 30, 2018 
Revenue
The primary driver of our increase in revenues relates to revenue from new contract awards, growth on certain existing contracts and our recent acquisitions, which were offset by contracts and tasks that ended and reduced scope of work or lower material purchases on some contracts.
Cost of services 
The increase in cost of services was primarily due to increases in revenue. As a percentage of revenue, direct labor costs were 46% for both the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018. As a percentage of revenues, other direct costs, which include subcontractors and third party equipment and materials used in the performance of our contracts, were 38% for the three months ended September 30, 2019, compared to 39% for the same period in 2018. 
General and administrative expenses 
Interest expense 
The increase in interest expense was due to increased borrowings on our revolving line of credit to fund our acquisitions. 
Our effective tax rate is affected by recurring items, such as the relative amount of income we earn in various taxing jurisdictions and their tax rates. It is also affected by discrete items that may occur in any given year, but are not consistent from year-to-year. Our effective income tax rates were 26% and 24% for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The primary driver of the increase in our effective tax rate was the impact of discrete items recognized in the third quarter of 2018, which were more favorable than discrete items recognized in the third quarter of 2019.
Nine Months Ended September 30, 2019 Compared to the Nine Months Ended September 30, 2018 
Revenue
The primary driver of our increase in revenues was revenue from new contract awards and growth on certain existing contracts and our recent acquisitions, which was offset by contracts and tasks that ended and reduced scope of work on some contracts.
Cost of services 
The increase in cost of services was primarily due to increases in revenue. As a percentage of revenue, direct labor costs were 47% and 48% for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. As a percentage of revenues, other direct costs, which include subcontractors and third party equipment and materials used in the performance of our contracts, were 38% for both the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018. 
General and administrative expenses 
The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to increased expenditures on support infrastructure improvements, expenditures related to our recent acquisitions and other legal matters. These increases were partially offset by reduced bid and proposal spending, lower amortization on acquired intangibles and the reclassification of certain allocable expenses from general and administrative expenses to cost of services. We expect general and administrative expenses as a percent of revenue to increase slightly during the remainder of 2019 due to increased bid and proposal spending in the last quarter of 2019.
Interest expense
The increase in interest expense was due to increased borrowing on our revolving line of credit to fund the acquisitions of Kforce Government Solutions (KGS) and H2M Group (H2M). We expect interest expense to decrease slightly for the remainder of 2019 due to increased cash on hand. 
Backlog
We define funded backlog to be the portion of backlog for which funding currently is appropriated and allocated to the contract by the purchasing agency or otherwise authorized for payment by the customer upon completion of a specific portion of work. Our funded backlog does not include the full value of our contracts because Congress often appropriates funds for a particular program or contract on a yearly or quarterly basis, even though the contract may call for performance over a much longer period of time.
A variety of circumstances or events may cause changes in the amount of our backlog and funded backlog, including the execution of new contracts, the extension of existing contracts, the non-renewal or completion of current contracts, the early termination of contracts and adjustment to estimates for previously included contracts. Changes in the amount of our funded backlog also are affected by the funding cycles of the U.S. government.
At September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, our backlog was $9.5 billion and $8.4 billion, respectively. Our funded backlog was $1.5 billion and $1.3 billion as of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively. 
Our primary liquidity needs relate to managing working capital, financing acquisitions, making cash dividend payments, purchasing property and equipment and investing in capital software. Our primary sources of liquidity are cash from operating activities and borrowings under our revolving credit facility. On September 30, 2019, our cash and cash equivalents balance was $33.3 million. There were outstanding borrowings of $25.0 million under our revolving credit facility at September 30, 2019. The maximum available borrowings under our revolving credit facility at September 30, 2019 were $467.3 million. As of September 30, 2019, we were contingently liable under letters of credit totaling $7.7 million, which reduces our availability to borrow under our revolving credit facility. 
Our operating cash flow is primarily affected by our ability to invoice and collect from our customers in a timely manner, our management of vendor payments and the overall profitability of our contracts. We bill most of our customers monthly after services are rendered. Our accounts receivable days sales outstanding were 57 and 67 for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. For the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, our net cash from operating activities was $233.0 
million and $94.2 million, respectively. The increase in net cash flows from operating activities during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 when compared to the same period in 2018 was primarily due to the timing of receivables collection.
Cash Flows From (Used In) Investing Activities
For the nine months ended September 30, 2019 our net cash used in investing activities was $197.7 million, which was primarily due to the acquisitions of KGS and H2M and the purchase of equipment to support managed IT service contracts, infrastructure investments and capitalized software for internal use. For the nine months ended September 30, 2018 our net cash used in investing activities was $36.8 million, which was primarily used for the purchase of equipment to support a managed IT service contract, infrastructure investments, closing working payments related to the purchase of InfoZen and capitalized software for internal use.
Cash Flows From (Used in) Financing Activities
For the nine months ended September 30, 2019, our net cash used in financing activities was $7.3 million, which was primarily due to dividends paid, offset by net borrowings under our revolving credit facility and proceeds from the exercise of stock options. For the nine months ended September 30, 2018, our net cash used in financing activities were $51.9 million, which was primarily due to dividends paid partially offset by the proceeds from the exercise of stock options.
Revolving Credit Facility
We believe the capital resources available to us from cash on hand, our remaining capacity under our revolving credit facility, and cash from our operations are adequate to fund our anticipated cash requirements for at least the next year. We anticipate financing our internal and external growth through cash from operating activities, borrowings under our revolving credit facility or other debt and issuance of equity.
To the extent possible, we invest our available cash in short-term, investment grade securities in accordance with our investment policy. Under our investment policy, we manage our investments in accordance with the priorities of maintaining the safety of our principal, maintaining the liquidity of our investments, maximizing the yield on our investments and investing our cash to the fullest extent possible. Our investment policy provides that no investment security can have a final maturity that exceeds six months and that the weighted average maturity of the portfolio cannot exceed 60 days. Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, amounts due from banks and short-term investments with maturity dates of three months or less at the date of purchase.
Dividend
In the ordinary course of business, we use letters of credit issued to satisfy certain contractual terms with our customers. As of September 30, 2019, $7.7 million in letters of credit were issued but undrawn. We have an outstanding performance bond in connection with a contract between ManTech MENA, LLC and Jadwalean International Operations and Management Company to fulfill technical support requirements for the Royal Saudi Air Force. This performance bond is guaranteed by a letter of credit in the amount of $7.6 million. 
Critical Accounting Estimates and Policies
Our ROU asset is recognized as the lease liability, any initial indirect costs and any prepaid lease payments, less any lease incentives. Our lease liabilities are recognized based on the present value of the future minimum lease payments over the lease term at commencement date. Our lease payments consist of amounts relating to the use of the underlying asset during the lease term, specifically fixed payments, payments to be made in optional periods when we are reasonably certain to exercise an option to extend the lease or not to exercise an option to terminate the lease and the amounts probable of being owed by us under residual guarantees. Our variable lease payments are excluded in measuring ROU assets and lease liabilities because they do not depend on an index or a rate or are not in substance fixed payments. We exclude lease incentives and initial direct costs incurred from our lease payments. Our leases typically do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at the commencement date in determining the present value of future payments.
For operating leases, after lease commencement, we measure our lease liability for each period at the present value of any remaining lease payments, discounted by using the rate determined at lease commencement. In our condensed consolidated statement of income, we recognize a single operating lease expense calculated on a straight-line basis over the remaining lease term. The depreciation of the ROU asset increases each year as a result of the declining lease liability balance. Variable lease payments are not recognized in the measurement of the lease liability; they are recognized in the period in which the related obligation has been incurred.
For finance leases, after lease commencement, we measure our lease liability by using the effective interest rate method. In each period, the lease liability will be increased to reflect the interest that is accrued on the related lease liability by using the appropriate discount rate, offset by a decrease in the lease liability resulting from the periodic lease payments. We recognize the ROU asset at cost, reduced by any accumulated depreciation. The ROU asset is depreciated on a straight-line basis. Together, the interest expense and depreciation expense result in a front-loaded expense profile. We will present interest expense and depreciation expense separately on our condensed consolidated statement of income.
period included in other comprehensive income for recurring Level 3 fair value measurements held at the end of the reporting period, and (2) the range and weighted average of significant unobservable inputs used to develop Level 3 fair value measurements. The amendments are effective for fiscal years, and for interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2019. The amendments regarding changes in unrealized gains and losses, the range and weighted average of significant unobservable inputs used to develop Level 3 fair value measurements, and the narrative description of measurement uncertainty should be applied prospectively for only the most recent interim or annual period presented in the initial fiscal year of adoption. All other amendments should be applied retrospectively to all periods presented upon their effective date. Note that early application is permitted for all entities; moreover, an entity is allowed to early adopt any removed or modified disclosures upon issuance of this ASU and delay adoption of the additional disclosures until their effective date. We are currently evaluating when we will adopt this standard as well as its effect on our condensed consolidated financial statements. 
Employees. In particular, ASU 2018-07 expands the scope of Topic 718, Compensation—Stock Compensation (which previously only included payments to employees), to include share-based payment transactions for acquiring goods and services from nonemployees. In fact, an entity should now apply the requirements of Topic 718 to non-employee awards, except for specific guidance on inputs to an option pricing model and the attribution of cost (i.e., the period of time over which share-based payment awards vest and the pattern of cost recognition over that period). Additionally, the amendments specify that Topic 718 applies to all share-based payment transactions in which a grantor acquires goods or services to be used or consumed in the grantor’s own operations by issuing share-based payment awards, and clarify that Topic 718 does not apply to share-based payments used to effectively provide (1) financing to the issuer or (2) awards granted in conjunction with selling goods or services to customers as part of a contract accounted for under Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers. The amendments are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, and for interim periods with fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2020. Early adoption is permitted, including adoption in any interim period, for reporting periods for which financial statements have not yet been issued. We do not expect the adoption of this ASU to have a material effect on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
