•Failure to maintain our relationship with the U.S. government, or the failure to compete effectively for new contract awards or to retain existing U.S. government contracts;
•Adverse results of U.S. government audits or other investigations of our government contracts.
We urge you not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement made herein following the date of this Quarterly Report, whether as a result of new information, subsequent events or circumstances, changes in expectations or otherwise.
The primary driver of our increase in revenue relates to revenue from new contract awards, acquisitions and growth on certain existing contracts. These increases were offset by contracts and tasks that ended and reduced scope of work on some contracts. 
The increase in cost of services was primarily due to increases in revenue. As a percentage of revenue, direct labor costs were 48% for the three months ended March 31, 2018, compared to 49% for the same period in 2017. As a percentage of revenue, other direct costs, which include subcontractors as well as equipment and materials used in the performance of our contracts, was 37% for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017. 
The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to an increase in bid and proposal spending, amortization of acquired intangibles and expenditures to support infrastructure. 
The increase in interest expense was due to increased borrowings under our credit facility to fund the acquisition of InfoZen in the fourth quarter of 2017 and the purchase of equipment to support a managed IT services contract. For additional information on the acquisition of InfoZen, see Note 4. Acquisitions to our condensed consolidated financial statements in Item I.
We define funded backlog to be the portion of backlog for which funding currently is appropriated and allocated to the contract by the purchasing agency or otherwise authorized for payment by the customer upon completion of a specific portion of work. Our funded backlog does not include the full value of our contracts because Congress often appropriates funds for a particular program or contract on a yearly or quarterly basis, even though the contract may call for performance over a much longer period of time.
A variety of circumstances or events may cause changes in the amount of our backlog and funded backlog, including the execution of new contracts, the extension of existing contracts, the non-renewal or completion of current contracts, the early termination of contracts, and adjustment to estimates for previously included contracts. Changes in the amount of our funded backlog also are affected by the funding cycles of the government.
At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, our backlog was $7.1 billion. Our funded backlog was $1.2 billion and $1.4 billion as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017. 
Our primary liquidity needs relate to managing working capital, financing acquisitions, making cash dividend payments, purchasing property and equipment and investing in capital software. Our primary sources of liquidity are cash from operating activities and borrowings under our revolving credit facility. On March 31, 2018, our cash and cash equivalents balance was $10.4 million. There were $65.5 million outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility at March 31, 2018. The maximum available borrowings under our revolving credit facility at March 31, 2018 were $419.2 million. As of March 31, 2018, we were contingently liable under letters of credit totaling $15.3 million, which reduces our availability to borrow under our revolving credit facility. 
Our operating cash flow is primarily affected by our ability to invoice and collect from our customers in a timely manner, our management of vendor payments and the overall profitability of our contracts. We bill most of our customers monthly after services are rendered. Our accounts receivable days sales outstanding were 69 and 68 for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. For the three months ended March 31, 2018, our net cash used in operating activities were $18.0 million. For the three months ended March 31, 2017, our net cash flow from operating activities were $36.5 million. The decrease in net cash flows from (used in) operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2018 when compared to the same period in 2017 was primarily due to the timing of receivables.
For the three months ended March 31, 2018, our net cash flow from financing activities were $27.9 million, which were primarily due to net borrowings under on revolving credit facility and exercise of stock options partially offset by dividend payments. For the three months ended March 31, 2017, our net cash used in financing activities were $6.4 million, which were primarily due to dividends paid partially offset by the proceeds from the exercise of stock options. 
We believe the capital resources available to us from cash on hand, our remaining capacity under our revolving credit facility, and cash from our operations are adequate to fund our anticipated cash requirements for at least the next year. We anticipate financing our internal and external growth through cash from operating activities, borrowings under our revolving credit facility or other debt and issuance of equity.
To the extent possible, we invest our available cash in short-term, investment grade securities in accordance with our investment policy. Under our investment policy, we manage our investments in accordance with the priorities of maintaining the safety of our principal, maintaining the liquidity of our investments, maximizing the yield on our investments and investing our cash to the fullest extent possible. Our investment policy provides that no investment security can have a final maturity that exceeds six months and that the weighted average maturity of the portfolio cannot exceed 60 days. Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, amounts due from banks and short-term investments with maturity dates of three months or less at the date of purchase.
In the ordinary course of business, we use letters of credit issued to satisfy certain contractual terms with our customers. As of March 31, 2018, $15.3 million in letters of credit were issued but undrawn. We have an outstanding performance bond in connection with a contract between ManTech MENA, LLC and Jadwalean International Operations and Management Company to fulfill technical support requirements for the Royal Saudi Air Force. This performance bond is guaranteed by a letter of credit in the amount of $15.2 million. We have off-balance sheet arrangements related to operating leases. For a description of our operating leases, see our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, previously filed with the SEC.
We account for a contract when both we and the customer approve and commit; our rights and those of the customer are identified, payment terms are identified; the contract has commercial substance; and collectability of consideration is probable. At contract inception, we identify the distinct goods or services promised in the contract, referred to as performance obligations. Then we determine the transaction price for the contract; the consideration to which we can can expect in exchange for the promised goods or services in the contract. The transaction price can be a fixed or variable amount. It is common for our contracts to contain award fees, incentive fees or other provisions that can either increase or decrease the transaction price. These variable amounts generally are awarded upon achievement of certain performance metrics, program milestones or cost targets and can be based upon customer discretion. We estimate variable consideration at the most likely amount to which we expect to be entitled. We include estimated amounts in the transaction price to the extent it is probable that a significant reversal of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is resolved. Our estimates of variable consideration and determination of whether to include estimated amounts in the transaction price are based largely on an assessment of our anticipated performance and historical, current and forecasted information that is reasonably available to us. The transaction price is allocated to each distinct performance obligation using our best estimate of the standalone selling price for each distinct good or service promised in the contract. The primary method used to estimate standalone selling price is the expected cost plus a margin approach, under which we forecast our expected costs of satisfying a performance obligation and then add an appropriate margin for that distinct good or service promised. Revenue is recognized when, or as, the performance obligation is satisfied.
We recognize revenue over time when there is a continuous transfer of control to our customer. For our U.S. government contracts, this continuous transfer of control to the customer is supported by clauses in the contract that allow the U.S. government to unilaterally terminate the contract for convenience, pay us for costs incurred plus a reasonable profit and take control of any work in process. When control is transferred over time, revenue is recognized based on the extent of progress towards completion of the performance obligation. Based on the nature of the products and services provided in the contract, we use our judgment to determine if an input measure or output measure best depicts the transfer of control over time. For services contracts, we typically satisfy our performance obligations as services are rendered and use a contract cost-based input method to measure progress. Contract costs include labor, material and allocable indirect expenses. Revenue is recognized proportionally as contract costs are 
incurred plus estimated fees. For time-and-material contracts, we bill the customer per labor hour and per material, and revenue is recognized in the amount invoiced since the amount corresponds directly to the value of our performance to date. For stand-ready service contracts, a time-elapsed output method is used to measure progress, and revenue is recognized straight-line over the term of the contract. If a contract does not meet the criteria for recognizing revenue over time, we recognize revenue at a point in time. Revenue is recognized at the point in time when control of the good or service is transferred to our customer. We consider control to transfer when we have a present right to payment and our customer has legal title. Determining a measure of progress and when control transfers requires us to make judgments that affect the timing of when revenue is recognized. Essentially all of our contracts satisfy their performance obligations over time.
Contracts are often modified to account for changes in contract specifications and requirements. Contract modifications impact performance obligation when the modification either creates new or changes the existing enforceable rights and obligations. The effect of a contract modification on the transaction price and our measure of progress for the performance obligation to which it relates is recognized as an adjustment to revenue under the cumulative catch-up method. Furthermore, a significant change in one or more estimates could affect the profitability of our contracts. We recognize adjustments in estimated profit on contracts in the period identified. If at any time the estimate of contract profitability indicates an anticipated loss on the contract, we recognize the loss in the quarter it is identified. The impact of adjustments in contract estimates can be reflected in either revenue or operating expenses on the condensed consolidated statement of income.
ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606) supersedes existing revenue recognition guidance, including ASC 605-35, Revenue Recognition - Construction-Type and Production-Type Contracts. ASU 2014-09 outlines a single set of comprehensive principles for recognizing revenue under GAAP. Among other things, it requires companies to identify contractual performance obligations and determine whether revenue should be recognized at a point in time or over time. It also requires new, expanded disclosures regarding revenue recognition. We elected to adopt using the modified retrospective method that applied to those contracts that were not substantially completed as of January 1, 2018. We recognized the cumulative effect of adopting ASC 606 as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the amount of $0.8 million, with the impact primarily related to fixed-price contracts. Results for reporting periods beginning after January 1, 2018 are presented under ASC 606, while prior period amounts were not adjusted and reported in accordance with ASC 605, Revenue Recognition. The impact to revenue for the quarter ended March 31, 2018 was immaterial as a result of applying ASC 606.
amount exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value, with the understanding that the loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. Public entities should adopt the amendments in this ASU prospectively for their annual, or any interim periods, in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019. Early adoption is permitted for all entities for interim or annual goodwill impairment tests performed on testing dates after January 1, 2017. We will evaluate adopting when we perform our goodwill impairment test in 2018. We do not expect the adoption of this ASU to have a material effect on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
