Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
•Inability to recruit and retain a sufficient number of employees with specialized skill sets or necessary security clearances who are in great demand and limited supply;
•Failure to realize the full amount of our backlog, or adverse changes in the timing of receipt of revenue under contracts included in backlog;
•Issues relating to competing effectively for awards procured through the competitive bidding process, including the adverse impact of delays caused by competitors' protests of contract awards received by us;
•Failure to obtain option awards, task orders or funding under contracts;
•Renegotiation, modification or termination of our contracts, or failure to perform in conformity with contract terms or our expectations;
•Increased exposure to risks associated with conducting business internationally;
•Non-compliance with, or adverse changes in, complex U.S. government laws, procurement regulations or processes; 
•Adverse results of U.S. government audits or other investigations of our government contracts; and
Overview
As of February 15, 2019, all agencies of the U.S. federal government have funding through appropriations through Government fiscal year (GFY) 2019. Approximately 75% of the U.S. government including the Department of Defense had full year appropriations to begin the fiscal year. Appropriations for the Department of Defense include near term expansions that aligned with the Administration's stated priorities in dealing with significant global threats, readiness and force structure needs within the military, diplomatic, and cyber aggressions by both state and non-state actors. A number of federal civilian agencies, including the Departments of Homeland Security and State operated under a Continuing Resolution through late December and then endured a 35-day lapse in funding prior to receiving appropriations in mid-February. We expect future appropriations to be debated with the consideration of policy priorities, national budget deficits, debt ceilings and the Budget Control Act.
We recommend that you read this discussion and analysis in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 Compared to the Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 
Revenue
The primary driver of our increase in revenues relates to revenue from new contract awards and growth on certain existing contracts, which were offset by contracts and tasks that ended and reduced scope of work on some contracts.
Cost of services 
The increase in cost of services was primarily due to increases in revenue. As a percentage of revenue, direct labor costs were 48% for both the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018. As a percentage of revenues, other direct costs, which include subcontractors and third party equipment and materials used in the performance of our contracts, was 38% for the three months ended March 31, 2019, compared to 37% for the same period in 2018. 
General and administrative expenses 
The decrease in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to reduced bid and proposal spending and amortization of acquisition intangibles offset by increased spending on infrastructure. We expect general and administrative expenses as a percent of revenue to increase during the remainder of 2019 due to the acquisition of Kforce Government Solutions (KGS) and increased bid and proposal spending.
Interest expense
The decrease in interest expense was due to repayment of debt on our revolving line of credit. We expect interest expense to increase for the remainder of 2019 due to increased borrowings under our credit facility to fund the acquisition of KGS. For additional information, see Note 11 in our condensed consolidated financial statements in Item 1.
Backlog
A variety of circumstances or events may cause changes in the amount of our backlog and funded backlog, including the execution of new contracts, the extension of existing contracts, the non-renewal or completion of current contracts, the early termination of contracts and adjustment to estimates for previously included contracts. Changes in the amount of our funded backlog also are affected by the funding cycles of the U.S. government.
At both March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, our backlog was $8.4 billion. Our funded backlog was $1.5 billion and $1.3 billion as of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018. 
Our primary liquidity needs relate to managing working capital, financing acquisitions, making cash dividend payments, purchasing property and equipment and investing in capital software. Our primary sources of liquidity are cash from operating activities and borrowings under our revolving credit facility. On March 31, 2019, our cash and cash equivalents balance was $120.5 million. There were outstanding borrowings of $96.0 million under our revolving credit facility at March 31, 2019. The maximum available borrowings under our revolving credit facility at March 31, 2019 were $396.3 million. As of March 31, 2019, we were contingently liable under letters of credit totaling $7.7 million, which reduces our availability to borrow under our revolving credit facility. 
Our operating cash flow is primarily affected by our ability to invoice and collect from our customers in a timely manner, our management of vendor payments and the overall profitability of our contracts. We bill most of our customers monthly after services are rendered. Our accounts receivable days sales outstanding were 70 and 69 for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, our net cash from (used in) operating activities was $47.3 million and $(18.0) million, respectively. The increase in net cash flows from operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2019 when compared to the same period in 2018 was primarily due to the timing of receivables collection.
Cash Flows From (Used In) Investing Activities
For the three months ended March 31, 2019 our net cash used in investing activities was $10.2 million, which was primarily due to the purchase of equipment to support a managed IT service contract, infrastructure investments and capitalized software for internal use. For the three months ended March 31, 2018 our net cash used in investing activities was $9.0 million, which was primarily due to the purchase of equipment to support a managed IT service contract, infrastructure investments and capitalized software for internal use.
Cash Flows From (Used in) Financing Activities
For the three months ended March 31, 2019, our net cash flow from financing activities was $78.1 million, which was primarily due to net borrowings under revolving credit facility and dividend payments. The net increase in borrowings for the three months ended March 31, 2019 is due to funding requirements to acquire Kforce Government Solutions on April 1, 2019. For the three months ended March 31, 2018, our net cash flow from financing activities were $27.9 million, which were primarily due to net borrowings under our revolving credit facility and exercise of stock options partially offset by dividend payments.
Revolving Credit Facility
We believe the capital resources available to us from cash on hand, our remaining capacity under our revolving credit facility, and cash from our operations are adequate to fund our anticipated cash requirements for at least the next year. We anticipate financing our internal and external growth through cash from operating activities, borrowings under our revolving credit facility or other debt and issuance of equity.
our principal, maintaining the liquidity of our investments, maximizing the yield on our investments and investing our cash to the fullest extent possible. Our investment policy provides that no investment security can have a final maturity that exceeds six months and that the weighted average maturity of the portfolio cannot exceed 60 days. Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, amounts due from banks and short-term investments with maturity dates of three months or less at the date of purchase.
Dividend
In the ordinary course of business, we use letters of credit issued to satisfy certain contractual terms with our customers. As of March 31, 2019, $7.7 million in letters of credit were issued but undrawn. We have an outstanding performance bond in connection with a contract between ManTech MENA, LLC and Jadwalean International Operations and Management Company to fulfill technical support requirements for the Royal Saudi Air Force. This performance bond is guaranteed by a letter of credit in the amount of $14 thousand. 
Critical Accounting Estimates and Policies
Our ROU asset is recognized as the lease liability, any initial indirect costs and any prepaid lease payments, less any lease incentives. Our lease liabilities are recognized based on the present value of the future minimum lease payments over the lease term at commencement date. Our lease payments consist of amounts relating to the use of the underlying asset during the lease term, specifically fixed payments, payment to be made in optional periods when we are reasonably certain to exercise an option to extend the lease or not to exercise an option to terminate the lease and the amounts probable of being owned by us under residual guarantees. Our variable lease payments are excluded in measuring ROU asset and lease liability because they do not depend on an index or a rate or are not in substance fixed payments. We exclude lease incentives and initial direct cost incurred from our lease payments. Our leases typically do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at the commencement date in determining the present value of future payments.
For operating leases, after lease commencement, we measure our lease liability for each period at the present value of any remaining lease payments, discounted by using the rate determined at lease commencement. In our condensed consolidated statement of income, we recognize a single operating lease expense calculated on a straight-line basis over the remaining lease term. The amortization of the ROU asset increases each year as a result of the declining lease liability balance. Variable lease payments are not recognized in the measurement of the lease liability - they are recognized in the period in which the related obligation has been incurred.
For finance leases, after lease commencement, we measure our lease liability by using the effective interest rate method. In each period, the lease liability will be increased to reflect the interest that is accrued on the related lease liability by using the appropriate discount rate, offset by a decrease in the lease liability resulting from the periodic lease payments. We recognize the ROU asset at cost, reduced by any accumulated depreciation. The ROU asset is depreciated on a straight-line basis. Together, the interest expense and amortization expense result in a front-loaded expense profile. We will present interest expense and depreciation expense separately on our condensed consolidated statement of income.
Recently Adopted Accounting Standards Updates
ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842) supersedes the leases requirements in Topic 840, Leases. The objective of Topic 842 is to establish the principles that lessees and lessors should apply to report useful information to users of financial statements about the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from a lease. We elected to adopt using the modified retrospective method at the beginning of the period of adoption, January 1, 2019, through the recognition of a lease liability and corresponding right of use asset. We elected the following transition related practical expedients; not to reassess whether any expired or existing contracts are or contain leases, not to reassess lease classification as determined under ASC 840 and, not to reassess initial direct costs for any existing lease. We have also elected not to apply the recognition and measurement requirements to short-term leases (less than 1 year). Additional details are included in Note 4 in our condensed consolidated financial statements in Item 1. 
and purchases and issues of Level 3 assets and liabilities; (2) for investments in certain entities that calculate net asset value, an entity is required to disclose the timing of liquidation of an investee’s assets and the date that restrictions from redemption might lapse, only if the investee has communicated the timing to the entity or announced the timing publicly; and (3) it is clear that the measurement uncertainty disclosure is to communicate information about the uncertainty in measurement as of the reporting date. Additionally, the ASU adds disclosure requirements for public entities about (1) the changes in unrealized gains and losses for the period included in other comprehensive income for recurring Level 3 fair value measurements held at the end of the reporting period, and (2) the range and weighted average of significant unobservable inputs used to develop Level 3 fair value measurements. The amendments are effective for fiscal years, and for interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2019. The amendments regarding changes in unrealized gains and losses, the range and weighted average of significant unobservable inputs used to develop Level 3 fair value measurements, and the narrative description of measurement uncertainty should be applied prospectively for only the most recent interim or annual period presented in the initial fiscal year of adoption. All other amendments should be applied retrospectively to all periods presented upon their effective date. Note that early application is permitted for all entities; moreover, an entity is allowed to early adopt any removed or modified disclosures upon issuance of this ASU and delay adoption of the additional disclosures until their effective date. We are currently evaluating when we will adopt this standard as well as its effect on our condensed consolidated financial statements. 
for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, and for interim periods within those fiscal years. We do not expect the adoption of this ASU to have a material effect on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
