The unaudited condensed consolidated interim financial statements include the accounts of the Company and all wholly owned divisions, including its 60% majority-owned subsidiary, Taitron Components Mexico, S.A. de C.V. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”) for interim financial information and the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 8 of Regulation S-X.
These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited condensed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Certain amounts in the prior year condensed consolidated financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
We have evaluated the impact of adopting this guidance and we are preparing for the changes to be made to our consolidated financial statements.
The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements and disclosures.
In January 2017, the FASB issued a new accounting standard which clarifies the definition of a business with the objective of adding guidance to assist entities with evaluating whether transactions should be accounted for as acquisitions or disposals of assets or businesses.
This guidance will be effective for the Company for the year ending December 31, 2019 and interim reporting periods within that year.
Early adoption is permitted for transactions that have not been reported in financial statements that have been issued or made available for issuance.
We are currently evaluating the effect of the adoption of this guidance on our consolidated financial statements.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
References to “Taitron,” the “Company,” “we,” “our” and “us” refer to Taitron Components Incorporated and its wholly owned and majority-owned subsidiaries, unless the context otherwise specifically defines.
These estimates have a significant impact on our valuation and reserve accounts relating to the allowance for sales returns, doubtful accounts, inventory reserves and deferred income taxes.
We had inventory balances in the amount of $4,409,000 and $4,990,000 at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, which is presented net of valuation allowances of $7,910,000 and $7,848,000, respectively.
We evaluate inventories to identify excess, high-cost, slow-moving or other factors rendering inventories as unmarketable at normal profit margins.
In any case, actual amounts could be different from those estimated.Controls and Procedures.Item 1.