item1.txt
Except for the accounting policy for revenue recognition, which was updated as a result of adopting a new accounting standard related to revenue recognition, there have been no material changes to our significant accounting policies in Note 1 - Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2018.
Revenue from product sales is recognized upon transfer of control of promised products to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for those products.
Revenue is recognized net of allowances for returns, customer programs and any taxes collected from customers.
For products sold with a right of return, we record a reduction to revenue by establishing a sales return allowance for estimated product returns at the time revenue is recognized, based primarily on historical return rates.
However, if product returns for a fiscal period are anticipated to exceed historical return rates, we may determine that additional sales return allowances are required to properly reflect our estimated exposure for product returns.
Our customer programs involve rebates, which are designed to serve as sales incentives to resellers of our products in various target markets, and marketing development funds, or MDFs, which represent monies paid to our partners that are earmarked for market segment development and are designed to support our partners’ activities while also promoting NVIDIA products.
We account for customer programs as a reduction to revenue and accrue for potential rebates and MDFs based on the amount we expect to be claimed by customers.
As a result, we recognize the revenue from the license and the revenue from the development services as a single performance obligation over the period in which the development services are performed.
For such arrangements, we allocate revenue to the software license and PCS on a relative standalone selling price basis by maximizing the use of observable inputs to determine the standalone selling price for each performance obligation.
Revenue from software licenses is recognized up front when the software is made available to the customer.
Our condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of NVIDIA Corporation and our wholly-owned subsidiaries.
The Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued an accounting standards update that creates a single source of revenue guidance under U.S. GAAP for all companies, in all industries.
Refer to Note 2 of these Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
In January 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standards update to amend certain aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure of financial instruments.
We are now required to recognize changes in the fair value of our equity investments through net income rather than other comprehensive income.


item2.txt
Revenue for the third quarter of fiscal year 2019 increased 21% year over year and increased 2% sequentially.
GPU business revenue was $2.77 billion, up 25% from a year earlier and up 4% sequentially, reflecting growth in professional visualization, datacenter, and gaming GPUs. Tegra Processor business revenue - which includes automotive, SOC modules for the Nintendo Switch gaming console, and other embedded edge AI platforms - was $407 million, down 3% from a year ago and down 13% sequentially.
Gaming revenue was $1.76 billion, up 13% from a year ago driven by growth in gaming GPUs, and down 2% sequentially as gaming GPU growth was more than offset by a seasonal decline in SOC modules for Nintendo Switch.
Professional visualization revenue was $305 million, up 28% from a year earlier and up 9% sequentially driven by strength across both desktop and mobile workstation products.
Datacenter revenue was $792 million, up 58% from a year ago and up 4% sequentially, led by strong sales of our Volta architecture-based products, including NVIDIA Tesla V100 and DGX systems, with contribution from the new Turing T4 Cloud GPU.
Automotive revenue of $172 million was up 19% from a year earlier and up 7% sequentially, incorporating infotainment modules, production DRIVE PX platforms, and development agreements with automotive companies.
Income from operations for the third quarter of fiscal year 2019 was $1.06 billion, up 18% from a year earlier and down 9% sequentially.
Net income and net income per diluted share for the third quarter of fiscal year 2019 were $1.23 billion and $1.97, respectively, up 47% and 48%, respectively, from a year earlier, fueled by strong revenue growth and improved gross margin.
We previously announced our plan to return $1.25 billion to shareholders in fiscal year 2019.
During the first nine months of fiscal year 2019, we returned $1.13 billion to shareholders through a combination of $855 million in share repurchases and $273 million in cash dividends.
We intend to return an additional $3.00 billion to shareholders by the end of fiscal year 2020, which may begin in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2019.
During the third quarter of fiscal year 2019, we introduced RAPIDS, an open-source GPU-acceleration platform for data science and machine learning; launched the NVIDIA T4 cloud GPU and NVIDIA TensorRT Hyperscale Inference Platform to deliver advanced acceleration in hyperscale datacenters; launched the NVIDIA RTX Server; released the GeForce RTX series, the first gaming GPUs based on the Turing architecture; and unveiled the Quadro RTX series, which is designed to revolutionize the workflow of designers and artists on the desktop.
During the second quarter of fiscal year 2019, we marked the launch of the Summit supercomputer at Oak Ridge National Laboratory, powered by NVIDIA Volta Tensor Core GPUs; introduced NVIDIA HGX-2, a unified computing platform for both AI and high performance computing; announced that five of the world’s seven fastest supercomputers are powered by NVIDIA GPUs; introduced the NVIDIA HGX-2 platform for both AI and HPC; and launched AIRI Mini with Pure Storage and ONTAP AI with NetApp for implementing and scaling deep learning.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Also refer to Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2018 for a prior discussion of our legal proceedings.
Refer to the description of the risk factors associated with our business previously disclosed in Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2018.


