item1.txt
Except for the accounting policy for leases, which was updated as a result of adopting a new accounting standard related to leases, there have been no material changes to our significant accounting policies in Note 1 - Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 27, 2019.
Operating leases with lease terms of more than 12 months are included in operating lease assets, accrued and other current liabilities, and long-term operating lease liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet.
Operating lease assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments over the lease term.
Operating lease assets and liabilities are recognized based on the present value of the remaining lease payments discounted using our incremental borrowing rate.
Operating lease assets also include initial direct costs incurred and prepaid lease payments, minus any lease incentives.
We combine the lease and non-lease components in determining the operating lease assets and liabilities.
Our condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of NVIDIA Corporation and our wholly-owned subsidiaries.
The Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued an accounting standards update regarding the accounting for leases under which lease assets and liabilities are recognized on the balance sheet.
We adopted this guidance on January 28, 2019 using the optional transition method by recognizing a cumulative-effect adjustment to the consolidated balance sheet.
We will be required to use a forward-looking expected credit loss model for accounts receivable and other financial instruments, including available-for-sale debt securities.
The standard will be effective for us beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021, with early adoption permitted.
Note 2 - Merger Agreement with Mellanox Technologies, Ltd. On March 10, 2019, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, or the Merger Agreement, with Mellanox Technologies Ltd, or Mellanox, pursuant to which we will acquire all of the issued and outstanding common shares of Mellanox for $125 per share in cash, representing a total enterprise value of approximately $6.9 billion as of the date of the Merger Agreement.
On January 28, 2019, we adopted the new lease accounting standard using the optional transition method by recognizing a cumulative-effect adjustment to the consolidated balance sheet and not adjusting comparative information for prior periods.
The cumulative-effect adjustment upon adoption of the new lease accounting standard resulted in the recognition of $470 million of operating lease assets and $500 million of operating lease liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.


item2.txt
Revenue for the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 decreased 31% year over year and increased 1% sequentially.
GPU business revenue was $2.02 billion, down 27% from a year earlier and up 2% sequentially.
The year-on-year decrease reflects declines in gaming and data center revenue, as well as the absence of $289 million of OEM revenue from cryptocurrency mining processors, or CMP.
Tegra Processor business revenue - which includes automotive, SOC modules for gaming platforms, and embedded edge AI platforms - was $198 million, down 55% from a year ago and down 12% sequentially.
The year-on-year decrease primarily reflects a decline in shipments of SOC modules for gaming platforms.
Gaming revenue was $1.05 billion, down 39% from a year ago and up 11% sequentially.
The year-on-year decrease primarily reflects a decline in shipments of gaming GPUs and SOC modules for gaming platforms.
The sequential increase primarily reflects growth in gaming GPUs. We believe a shortage of Intel processors that is impacting the global PC market will affect our sales of gaming GPUs for laptops in the second quarter of fiscal year 2020.
Automotive revenue of $166 million was up 14% from a year earlier and up 2% sequentially, primarily reflecting growth in AI cockpit modules.
OEM and Other revenue was $99 million, down 74% from a year ago and down 15% sequentially.
The year-on-year decrease is primarily due to the absence of $289 million from CMP sales.
Income from operations for the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 was $358 million, down 72% from a year earlier and up 22% sequentially.
Net income and net income per diluted share for the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 were $394 million and $0.64, respectively, both down 68% from a year earlier.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Also refer to Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 27, 2019 for a prior discussion of our legal proceedings.
Refer to the description of the risk factors associated with our business previously disclosed in Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 27, 2019.


