item1.txt
Except for the accounting policy for revenue recognition, which was updated as a result of adopting a new accounting standard related to revenue recognition, there have been no material changes to our significant accounting policies in Note 1 - Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2018.
Revenue from product sales is recognized upon transfer of control of promised products to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for those products.
Revenue is recognized net of allowances for returns, customer programs and any taxes collected from customers.
For products sold with a right of return, we record a reduction to revenue by establishing a sales return allowance for estimated product returns at the time revenue is recognized, based primarily on historical return rates.
However, if product returns for a fiscal period are anticipated to exceed historical return rates, we may determine that additional sales return allowances are required to properly reflect our estimated exposure for product returns.
As a result, we recognize the revenue from the license and the revenue from the development services as a single performance obligation over the period in which the development services are performed.
Revenue from software licenses is recognized up front when the software is made available to the customer.
Our condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of NVIDIA Corporation and our wholly-owned subsidiaries.
The Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued an accounting standards update that creates a single source of revenue guidance under U.S. GAAP for all companies, in all industries.
Refer to Note 2 of these Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
In January 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standards update to amend certain aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure of financial instruments.
We are now required to recognize changes in the fair value of our equity investments through net income rather than other comprehensive income.
We adopted this guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 and applied it prospectively.
In February 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standards update regarding the accounting for leases by which we will begin recognizing lease assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for lease terms of more than 12 months.
The update will be effective for us beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020.


item2.txt
Revenue for the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 increased 66% year over year and 10% sequentially.
All of our market platforms - gaming, professional visualization, datacenter, and automotive - produced year-over-year growth.
GPU business revenue was $2.77 billion, up 77% from a year earlier and up 12% sequentially, led by gaming and datacenter.
Gaming revenue was up 68% from a year ago and down 1% sequentially.
Datacenter revenue was $701 million, up 71% from a year ago and up 16% sequentially, led by strong sales of our Volta architecture, including NVIDIA Tesla V100, new DGX systems, and HPC design wins.
Professional visualization revenue was $251 million, up 22% from a year earlier and down 1% sequentially.
Tegra processor business revenue, which includes SOC modules for the Nintendo Switch gaming console, was $442 million, up 33% from a year ago and down 2% sequentially.
Also included was Automotive revenue of $145 million, which was up 4% from a year earlier and up 10% sequentially, incorporating infotainment modules, production DRIVE PX platforms, and development agreements with automotive companies.
We adopted the new accounting standard for revenue recognition in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 using the modified retrospective approach.
The impact of adopting the new revenue standard was not significant to our consolidated financial statements in the first quarter.
Gross margin for the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 was 64.5%, increasing from the prior year and the previous quarter due to strong growth in datacenter revenue and the mix within our GeForce gaming GPUs.
Income from operations for the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 was $1.29 billion, up 134% from a year earlier and up 21% sequentially.


item3.txt



part2.txt
Refer to Part I, Item 1, Note 13 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of significant developments in our legal proceedings since January 28, 2018.
Also refer to Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2018 for a prior discussion of our legal proceedings.


