Amortization expense was $43 million and $50 million for the quarters ended March 29, 2019 and March 30, 2018, respectively. 
Depreciation expense was $15 million and $13 million for the quarters ended March 29, 2019 and March 30, 2018, respectively. 
During the quarter ended March 30, 2018, the Company had $42 million of rental expense.
Effective the beginning of fiscal 2019, the Company changed the composition of its Defense Solutions reportable segment to better align the operations within the reportable segment to the customers it serves. This resulted in the identification of new operating segments within Defense Solutions. In addition, certain contracts were reassigned between the Civil and Defense Solutions reportable segments. While this activity did not have a material impact on the Company's reportable segments, prior year segments results have been recast to reflect this change. 
The increase in deferred revenue was primarily due to the timing of advance payments from customers offset by revenue recognized during the period. 
Effective the beginning of fiscal 2019, certain contracts were reassigned between the Civil and Defense Solutions reportable segments (see "Note 17–Business Segments"). While this activity did not have a material impact on the Company's reportable segments, prior year segment results have been recast to reflect this change. 
During the quarter ended March 30, 2018, an impairment charge of $7 million associated with this property was recorded within Corporate . 
During the quarters ended March 29, 2019 and March 30, 2018, revenue recognized from performance obligations satisfied in previous periods was $4 million and $34 million, respectively. The changes primarily relate to revisions of variable consideration, including award fees, and revisions to estimates at completion resulting from changes in contract scope, mitigation of contract risks or due to true-ups of contract estimates at the end of contract performance.
Effective the beginning of fiscal 2019, the Company changed the composition of its Defense Solutions reportable segment, which resulted in the identification of new operating segments and reporting units within Defense Solutions (see "Note 17–Business Segments"). Consequently, the carrying amount of goodwill was re-allocated among the reporting units for the purpose of testing goodwill for impairment for fiscal 2019. In addition, certain contracts were reassigned between the Civil and Defense Solutions reportable segments. This change resulted in the reallocation of $25 million of goodwill between the two reportable segments. 
The Company's operations and reportable segments are organized around the markets served and the nature of the products and services provided to customers in those markets. The Company defines its reportable segments based on the way the chief operating decision maker ("CODM"), currently its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, manages the operations of the Company for purposes of allocating resources and assessing performance.
On February 20, 2019, the Company's Civil segment disposed of its commercial cybersecurity business in order to focus on providing solutions, including cybersecurity, to the Company's core markets of governments and highly regulated industries. The Company received initial proceeds of $171 million and recorded a preliminary pre-tax gain on sale of $88 million, net of assets divested of $70 million and $13 million in transaction related costs and preliminary working capital adjustments. The gain was recorded in "Other income, net" on the condensed consolidated statements of income.
Asset information by segment is not a key measure of performance used by the CODM. Non-operating income, net for the three months ended March 29, 2019 was $54 million as compared to non-operating expense, net of $34 million for the three months ended March 30, 2018. The $88 million increase was primarily due to the gain recognized on the sale of our commercial cybersecurity business.
 The decrease in operating income for the three months ended March 29, 2019, as compared to the three months ended March 30, 2018, was primarily due to higher net profit write-ups in the prior year quarter, partially offset by new awards.
We paid dividends of $54 million and $52 million during the three months ended March 29, 2019 and March 30, 2018, respectively.
The decrease in operating loss for the three months ended March 29, 2019, as compared to the three months ended March 30, 2018, was primarily attributable to lower integration and restructuring costs and an asset impairment charge in the prior year quarter.Item 5. Other Information.Item 1. Legal Proceedings.
Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures.