ITEM 3. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK



Interest Rate Risks



Our investment portfolio consists of a variety of financial instruments that expose us to interest rate risk, including, but not limited to, money market funds, certificates of deposit and corporate securities. These investments are generally classified as available-for-sale and, consequently, are recorded on our balance sheets at fair market value with their related unrealized gain or loss reflected as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income in stockholders’ equity. Due to the relatively short-term nature of our investment portfolio, we do not believe that an immediate increase in interest rates would have a material effect on the fair market value of our portfolio.



Our debt obligations consist of a variety of financial instruments that expose us to interest rate risk, including, but not limited to our revolving credit facility, Term Loans and Exchangeable Notes. Interest on the Exchangeable Notes is fixed and interest on 





our Term Loans is at variable rates. The interest rate on the Term Loans is tied to short-term interest rate benchmarks including the Prime Rate and LIBOR. 



In December 2017, we entered into fixed-for-floating interest rate forward swap agreements with two counterparties, starting from April 2018, to swap variable interest payments on our debt for fixed interest payments. These agreements will expire in July 2021. The objective of the swap was to effectively fix the interest rate at current levels without having to refinance the outstanding term loan, thereby avoiding the incurrence of transaction costs. The interest rate on the variable debt will continue to float until it becomes fixed in April 2018. On January 3, 2018, we evaluated the hedge effectiveness of the interest rate swaps and have designated these swaps as hedging instruments. Upon designation as hedge instruments, future changes in fair value of these swaps will be recognized in accumulated other comprehensive loss.



A one hundred basis point change in the contractual interest rates would change our interest expense for the Senior Secured Revolving Credit Facility and Term Loan by approximately $2.7 million annually.



Our long-term operating results and cash flows may be materially affected to a significant degree by a sudden change in market interest rates.



Foreign Currency Exchange Risk



We operate and sell products in various global markets and purchase capital equipment using foreign currencies but predominantly the U.S. dollar. We are exposed to certain risks associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates in Japanese yen and other foreign currencies.





•sales of our products to Japanese distributors are denominated in U.S. dollars, Japanese yen and Euros;



•some of our manufacturing costs and operating expenses are denominated in Japanese yen, and other foreign currencies such as the Thai Baht, Philippine Peso and Malaysian Ringgit; and



•some fixed asset purchases and sales are denominated in other foreign currencies.



Consequently, movements in exchange rates could cause our revenues and our expenses to fluctuate, affecting our profitability and cash flows. We use foreign currency forward contracts to reduce our foreign exchange exposure on our foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities. We also hedge a percentage of our forecasted revenue denominated in Japanese yen with foreign currency forward contracts. The objective of these contracts is to mitigate the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements to our operating results on a short-term basis. We do not use these contracts for speculative or trading purposes.



We analyzed our foreign currency exposure, including our hedging strategies, to identify assets and liabilities denominated in other currencies. For those assets and liabilities, we evaluated the effects of a 10% shift in exchange rates between those currencies and the U.S. dollar. We have determined that there would be an immaterial effect on our results of operations from such a shift. Please see Note 10 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for details on the contracts.



ITEM 3. DEFAULTS UPON SENIOR SECURITIES



None.



