fls.txt



item1.txt
Refer to note 8, “Segments,” for additional information on the changes in reportable segments.
The company provided recast historical segment information reflecting these changes in a Form 8-K dated April 4, 2019.
Percentages presented are calculated from the underlying whole-dollar amounts.
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
This is annotated where applicable.
In January 2017, the FASB issued guidance that simplifies the goodwill impairment test by removing Step 2.
The company is evaluating the impact of the guidance.
In June 2016, with amendments in 2018, the FASB issued guidance for credit impairment based on an expected loss model rather than an incurred loss model.
credit losses.
A cross-functional team was established that is evaluating the financial instruments portfolio and the system, process and policy change requirements and continues to make substantial progress.
The company elected the package of practical expedients not to reassess prior conclusions related to contracts containing leases, lease classification and initial direct costs and the lessee practical expedient to combine lease and nonlease components for all asset classes.
Certain types of implementation costs should be capitalized and amortized over the term of the hosting arrangement.
The amendment also simplified the impairment test of equity investments that lack readily determinable fair value.
Revenue recognition depicts the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
The guidance also requires specific disclosures relating to revenue recognition.


item2.txt
There is no change to the company’s Consolidated Financial Statements.
Refer to note 8, “Segments” on pages 35 to 36 for additional information on the changes in reportable segments.
The periods presented in this Form 10-Q are reported on a comparable basis.
The company provided recast historical segment information reflecting these changes in a Form 8-K dated April 4, 2019.
Financial results adjusted for currency are calculated by translating current period activity in local currency using the comparable prior year period’s currency conversion rate.
Generally, when the dollar either strengthens or weakens against other currencies, the growth at constant currency rates or adjusting for currency will be higher or lower than growth reported at actual exchange rates.
The change in the operating (non-GAAP) tax rate was primarily driven by the same factors mentioned above, excluding the impacts of U.S. tax reform related activity.
· Decreases from dividends ($1.4 billion) and treasury stock ($1.0 billion) primarily due to share repurchases; partially offset by · Increases from net income ($1.6 billion) and retirement related plans ($0.3 billion).
The company generated $4.8 billion in cash flow provided by operating activities, an increase of $0.2 billion compared to the first quarter of 2018, driven primarily by an increase in cash provided by financing receivables ($0.1 billion).
The company continues to expect GAAP diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of at least $12.45 and operating (non-GAAP) earnings of at least $13.90 per diluted share for 2019.
Segment pre-tax income includes transactions between segments that are intended to reflect an arm’s-length transfer price and excludes certain unallocated corporate items.
Cognitive Applications includes software that addresses vertical and domain-specific solutions, increasingly infused with AI.
This content was previously reported in Solutions Software, with the exception of security services, which was reported in Infrastructure Services.
Watson Health offerings had broad-based growth this quarter and Weather offerings had double-digit growth and reached an all-time high in the number of active users.


item4.txt



part2.txt



