fls.txt



item1.txt
Interim results are not necessarily indicative of financial results for a full year.
The information included in this Form 10-Q should be read in conjunction with the company’s 2017 Annual Report.
Percentages presented are calculated from the underlying whole-dollar amounts.
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
This is annotated where applicable.
In June 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued guidance for credit impairment based on an expected loss model rather than an incurred loss model.
The guidance is effective January 1, 2020 with a one year early adoption permitted.
The guidance requires lessees to recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for most leases in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
The guidance makes some changes to lessor accounting, including the elimination of the use of third-party residual value guarantee insurance in the capital lease test, and overall aligns with the new revenue recognition guidance.
There are certain practical expedients that can be elected which the company is currently evaluating for application.
A cross-functional implementation team has been established which is evaluating the lease portfolio, system, process and policy change requirements.
The company is currently planning on electing the package of practical expedients to not reassess prior conclusions related to contracts containing leases, lease classification and initial direct costs and is evaluating the other practical expedients available under the guidance.
Certain equity investments are now measured at fair value with changes recognized in net income.
The amendment also simplified the impairment test of equity investments that lack readily determinable fair value.
The FASB issued guidance on the recognition of revenue from contracts with customers in May 2014 with amendments in 2015 and 2016.
Revenue recognition depicts the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.


item2.txt
The periods presented in this Form 10-Q are reported on a comparable basis.
The company filed a Form 8-K on March 29, 2018 to recast its historical consolidated and segment information to reflect the change.
Financial results adjusted for currency are calculated by translating current period activity in local currency using the comparable prior year period’s currency conversion rate.
In the first quarter of 2018, the company reported $19.1 billion in revenue, $1.7 billion in income from continuing operations and operating (non-GAAP) earnings of $2.3 billion, resulting in diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $1.81 as reported and $2.45 on an operating (non-GAAP) basis.
The operating (non-GAAP) gross margin of 43.7 percent decreased 0.7 points.
The prior year negative tax rate was primarily driven by discrete tax items ($0.5 billion), including the first-quarter 2017 intra-entity transfer of assets ($0.6 billion).
· Decreases in total receivables ($3.1 billion); partially offset by · Increases in deferred costs ($1.0 billion) driven by capitalized sales commissions ($0.7 billion) related to the adoption of the new revenue standard, prepaid expenses and other current assets ($0.7 billion) driven by contract assets, prepaid pension assets ($0.5 billion), marketable securities ($0.3 billion) and deferred taxes ($0.2 billion).
Refer to page 70 in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section for additional information on this non-GAAP measure.
Segment pre-tax income includes transactions between segments that are intended to reflect an arm’s-length transfer price and excludes certain unallocated corporate items.
There was year-to-year growth in both Solutions Software and Transaction Processing Software on an as-reported and constant currency basis.
The company remains well positioned in this market and continues to increase its AI capabilities across its extensive security portfolio.
Growth was driven by Z middleware, as clients continue to invest and grow their high-value, mission-critical workloads on the Z platform.
These results reflect modest improvement in the year-to-year performance compared to the fourth quarter of 2017.


item4.txt



part2.txt



