fls.txt



item1.txt
Interim results are not necessarily indicative of financial results for a full year.
The information included in this Form 10-Q should be read in conjunction with the company’s 2017 Annual Report.
Percentages presented are calculated from the underlying whole-dollar amounts.
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
This is annotated where applicable.
In June 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued guidance for credit impairment based on an expected loss model rather than an incurred loss model.
The guidance is effective January 1, 2020 with a one year early adoption permitted.
The guidance requires lessees to recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for most leases in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
The guidance makes some changes to lessor accounting, including the elimination of the use of third-party residual value guarantee insurance in the capital lease test, and overall aligns with the new revenue recognition guidance.
The company will adopt the guidance as of the effective date.
A cross-functional implementation team has been established which is evaluating the lease portfolio, system, process and policy change requirements.
The company is currently planning on electing the package of practical expedients not to reassess prior conclusions related to contracts containing leases, lease classification and initial direct costs and is evaluating the other practical expedients available under the guidance.
The amount that would have been reclassified from lease receivables to loan receivables in 2017, under the application of this new guidance, would have been approximately $450 million.
Certain equity investments are now measured at fair value with changes recognized in net income.
The amendment also simplified the impairment test of equity investments that lack readily determinable fair value.


item2.txt
As a result, the company aligned its presentation of operating (non-GAAP) earnings to conform to the FASB presentation of these costs in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.
The periods presented in this Form 10-Q are reported on a comparable basis.
The company filed a Form 8-K on March 29, 2018 to recast its historical consolidated and segment information to reflect the change.
Financial results adjusted for currency are calculated by translating current period activity in local currency using the comparable prior year period’s currency conversion rate.
Generally, when the dollar either strengthens or weakens against other currencies, the growth at constant currency rates or adjusting for currency will be higher or lower than growth reported at actual exchange rates.
technology combined with deep industry expertise underpinned by trust and security – all delivered through its integrated business model.
Total consolidated revenue increased 3.7 percent as reported and 1.6 percent adjusted for currency, reflecting the company’s highest constant currency growth in seven years.
The annual exit run rate for as-a-Service revenue increased to $11.1 billion in the second quarter of 2018 compared to $8.8 billion in the second quarter of 2017.
Security grew 81 percent as reported (79 percent adjusted for currency) driven by strong demand for the pervasive encryption of IBM Z and growth in integrated software and services.
Mobile revenue increased 5 percent as reported and 3 percent adjusted for currency.
The year-to-year decrease was due to lower spending (5 points) as the company continues to realize acquisition synergies and drives operational efficiencies by streamlining its management system, scaling agile and implementing new ways of working.
Refer to the Looking Forward section on pages 84 and 85 for additional information on the company’s expectations.
The company continued to have solid revenue growth in its strategic imperatives, led by cloud and security.
EMEA increased 12.2 percent as reported and 3 percent adjusted for currency with growth as reported and adjusted for currency in Germany, France, the UK and Spain.


item4.txt



part2.txt



