fls.txt



item1.txt
The financial statements and footnotes are unaudited.
The company provided recast historical segment information reflecting these changes in a Form 8-K dated April 4, 2019.
Percentages presented are calculated from the underlying whole-dollar amounts.
Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation.
The revenue amounts reclassified were $0.5 billion, $1.0 billion and $1.6 billion for the three months ended September 30, 2018, nine months ended September 30, 2019 and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively.
Other immaterial reclassifications have been annotated where applicable.
In January 2017, the FASB issued guidance that simplifies the goodwill impairment test by removing Step 2.
The guidance also changes the requirements for reporting units with zero or negative carrying amounts and requires additional disclosures for these reporting units.
In June 2016, with amendments in 2018 and 2019, the FASB issued guidance for credit impairment based on an expected loss model rather than an incurred loss model.
The new guidance expands the scope of financial instruments subject to impairment, including off-balance sheet commitments and residual value.
The company will adopt the guidance as of the effective date.
A cross-functional team was established to evaluate the impact of the guidance on the financial instruments portfolio.
All of the changes to systems, processes and policies are on track for completion before the effective date.
The guidance requires lessees to recognize right-of-use (ROU) assets and lease liabilities for most leases in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
The guidance also made some changes to lessor accounting, including elimination of the use of third-party residual value guarantee insurance in the lease classification test, and overall aligns with the new revenue recognition guidance.


item2.txt
Effective with the first quarter of 2019, the company made a number of changes to its organizational structure and management system.
As a result of these changes, the company revised its reportable segments.
The periods presented in this Form 10-Q are reported on a comparable basis.
The company provided recast historical segment information reflecting these changes in a Form 8-K dated April 4, 2019.
Financial results adjusted for currency are calculated by translating current period activity in local currency using the comparable prior year period’s currency conversion rate.
Generally, when the dollar either strengthens or weakens against other currencies, the growth at constant currency rates or adjusting for currency will be higher or lower than growth reported at actual exchange rates.
These divested businesses are included in the company’s Other segment.
The company’s reportable segment financial results reflect pre-tax operating earnings from continuing operations, consistent with the company’s management and measurement system.
The year-to-year decrease was primarily driven by a benefit from the realization of a tax only capital loss in a subsidiary (10.7 points), an increase in tax benefits attributable to audit activity (4.3 points), as well as a benefit due to the mix of geographic income year to year (5.0 points), primarily driven by Red Hat.
Refer to the Liquidity and Capital Resources section for additional information on this non-GAAP measure.
Refer to the Looking Forward section for additional information on the company’s expectations.
The year-to-year performance was driven by lower non-operating retirement-related costs (4 points), the impact of currency (4 points) and gains from divestitures (3 points), partially offset by higher spending including Red Hat (6 points), amortization of acquired intangible assets and other non-operating activity related to the Red Hat acquisition (3 points) and a decrease in IP income (2 points).
Pre-tax income from continuing operations of $6.2 billion decreased 10.6 percent and the pre-tax margin was 11.1 percent, a decrease of 0.8 points versus 2018.
Similar to the three months ended September 30, 2019, the nine month period was also impacted by the deferred revenue purchase accounting adjustment and Red Hat acquisition-related activity.


item4.txt



part2.txt



