fls.txt



item1.txt
The information included in this Form 10-Q should be read in conjunction with the company’s 2017 Annual Report.
Percentages presented are calculated from the underlying whole-dollar amounts.
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
This is annotated where applicable.
In August 2018, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued guidance on a customer’s accounting for implementation costs incurred in cloud-computing arrangements that are hosted by a vendor.
The new guidance expands the scope of financial instruments subject to impairment, including off-balance sheet commitments and residual value.
The FASB issued guidance in February 2016, with amendments in 2018, which changes the accounting for leases.
The guidance makes some changes to lessor accounting, including the elimination of the use of third-party residual value guarantee insurance in the lease classification test, and overall aligns with the new revenue recognition guidance.
adopt the guidance as of the effective date and will apply the transition option, whereby prior comparative periods will not be retrospectively presented in the consolidated financial statements.
The company expects to elect the package of practical expedients not to reassess prior conclusions related to contracts containing leases, lease classification and initial direct costs and the lessee practical expedient to combine lease and nonlease components for all asset classes.
The company will make a policy election to not recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for short-term leases for all asset classes.
The other practical expedients available under the guidance are being evaluated.
A cross-functional implementation team is evaluating the lease portfolio, system, process, control and policy change requirements.
The company has made significant progress in these areas as well as in gathering the necessary data elements for the lease population.
As a lessee, the company’s operating lease commitments were $6.6 billion at December 31, 2017.
In January 2016, the FASB issued guidance which addresses aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of financial instruments.


item2.txt
The periods presented in this Form 10-Q are reported on a comparable basis.
The company filed a Form 8-K on March 29, 2018 to recast its historical consolidated and segment information to reflect the change.
Financial results adjusted for currency are calculated by translating current period activity in local currency using the comparable prior year period’s currency conversion rate.
Generally, when the dollar either strengthens or weakens against other currencies, the growth at constant currency rates or adjusting for currency will be higher or lower than growth reported at actual exchange rates.
Net cash used in investing activities of $3.0 billion in the third quarter of 2018 was $1.1 billion higher than the prior year, primarily driven by an increase from net purchases of marketable securities and other investments ($1.5 billion).
The company continues to expect GAAP earnings per share from continuing operations of at least $11.60 and operating (non-GAAP) earnings of at least $13.80 per diluted share for 2018.
Refer to page 89 in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section for additional information on this non-GAAP measure.
Refer to the Looking Forward section on pages 86 and 87 for additional information on the company’s expectations.
Mobile revenue increased 9 percent year to year (7 percent adjusted for currency) and Security revenue increased 57 percent as reported (56 percent adjusted for currency).
Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $7.36 increased 1.7 percent and operating (non-GAAP) diluted earnings per share of $8.96 increased 4.9 percent versus the prior year.
In the first nine months of 2018, the company repurchased 16.0 million shares of its common stock and had $1.4 billion remaining in the current share repurchase authorization at September 30, 2018.
· Increases from net income ($6.8 billion), retirement-related benefit plans ($1.6 billion) and adoption of the new revenue standard ($0.5 billion); partially offset by · Decreases from dividends ($4.2 billion) and share repurchases ($2.4 billion).
The company generated $11.1 billion in cash flows provided by operating activities, an increase of $0.1 billion compared to the first nine months of 2017, driven primarily by an increase in cash provided by financing receivables ($0.4 billion); partially offset by an increase in cash income tax payments ($0.3 billion).
Segment pre-tax income includes transactions between the segments that are intended to reflect an arm’s-length transfer price and excludes certain unallocated corporate items.


item4.txt



part2.txt



