The financial statements and footnotes are unaudited.
The periods presented in this Form 10-Q are reported on a comparable basis.
The company provided recast historical segment information reflecting these changes in a Form 8-K dated April 4, 2019.
Percentages presented are calculated from the underlying whole-dollar amounts.
This is annotated where applicable.
In January 2017, the FASB issued guidance that simplifies the goodwill impairment test by removing Step 2.
The guidance also changes the requirements for reporting units with zero or negative carrying amounts and requires additional disclosures for these reporting units.
The company is evaluating the impact of the guidance.
In June 2016, with amendments in 2018 and 2019, the FASB issued guidance for credit impairment based on an expected loss model rather than an incurred loss model.
The new guidance expands the scope of financial instruments subject to impairment, including off-balance sheet commitments and residual value.Effective with the first quarter of 2019, the company made a number of changes to its organizational structure and management system.
As a result of these changes, the company revised its reportable segments.
The periods presented in this Form 10-Q are reported on a comparable basis.
The company provided recast historical segment information reflecting these changes in a Form 8-K dated April 4, 2019.
Financial results adjusted for currency are calculated by translating current period activity in local currency using the comparable prior year period’s currency conversion rate.
Generally, when the dollar either strengthens or weakens against other currencies, the growth at constant currency rates or adjusting for currency will be higher or lower than growth reported at actual exchange rates.
Refer to “Currency Rate Fluctuations” for additional information.
In the second quarter of 2019, the company reported $19.2 billion in revenue, $2.5 billion in income from continuing operations and operating (non-GAAP) earnings of $2.8 billion, resulting in diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $2.81 as reported and $3.17 on an operating (non-GAAP) basis.
This performance reflects improving fundamentals as the company continues to focus on investment prioritization shifting to higher value areas and the value the company provides to clients in their digital transformations and journey to the cloud.