item1.txt
The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements of Comtech Telecommunications Corp. and its subsidiaries ("Comtech," "we," "us," or "our") as of and for the three and nine months ended April 30, 2019 and 2018 are unaudited.
The acquisition has a preliminary purchase price for accounting purposes of $32,934,000, of which $27,328,000 was settled in cash and $5,606,000 was settled with the issuance of 208,669 shares of Comtech’s common stock at a volume weighted average stock price of $26.86.
The cash portion of the purchase price was funded principally through borrowings under our Credit Facility.
We are accounting for the acquisition of Solacom under the acquisition method of accounting in accordance with FASB ASC 805, "Business Combinations."
The purchase price was allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, based on their preliminary fair value as of February 28, 2019, pursuant to the business combination accounting rules.
Our condensed consolidated statements of operations for the three and nine months ended April 30, 2019 include a nominal contribution from Solacom.
The preliminary fair value of customer relationships and backlog was primarily based on the value of the discounted cash flows that the related intangible asset could be expected to generate in the future.
This goodwill has been assigned to our Commercial Solutions segment based on specific identification and is generally not deductible for income tax purposes.
The allocation of the preliminary purchase price shown in the above table was based upon a preliminary valuation and estimates and assumptions that are subject to change within the purchase price allocation period (generally one year from the acquisition date).
The primary areas of the purchase price allocation not yet finalized include the purchase price (due to customary provisions in the purchase agreement related to adjustments to net working capital as of the acquisition date), a final assessment of accrued warranty obligations, income taxes and residual goodwill.


item2.txt
We are a leading provider of advanced communications solutions for both commercial and government customers worldwide.
This segment also serves certain large government customers (including the U.S. government) that have requirements for off-the-shelf commercial equipment.
We believe this segment is a leading provider of satellite communications (such as satellite earth station modems and traveling wave tube amplifiers ("TWTA") and solid-state power amplifiers ("SSPAs")), public safety systems (such as next generation 911 ("NG-911") technologies) and enterprise application technologies (such as a messaging and trusted location-based technologies).
•Over time - We recognize revenue using the over time method when there is a continuous transfer of control to the customer over the contractual period of performance.
Revenue recognized over time is generally based on the extent of progress toward completion of the related performance obligations.
Under the cost-to-cost measure, the extent of progress toward completion is measured based on the ratio of costs incurred to date to the total estimated costs at completion, including warranty costs.
When these contracts are modified, the additional goods or services are generally not distinct from those already provided.
For over time contracts using a cost-to-cost measure of progress, we have an estimate at completion ("EAC") process in which management reviews the progress and execution of our performance obligations.
For service-based contracts in both our enterprise technology solutions and safety and security technology solutions product lines, we recognize revenue over time.
These services are typically recognized as a series of services performed over the contract term using the straight-line method, or based on our customers’ actual usage of the networks and platforms which we provide.
Point in time accounting is also applied to certain contracts in our command and control solutions product line.
The contracts related to these product lines do not meet the requirements for over time revenue recognition because our customers cannot utilize the equipment for its intended purpose during any phase of our manufacturing process; customers do not simultaneously receive and or consume the benefits provided by our performance; customers do not control the asset (i.e., prior to delivery, customers cannot direct the use of the asset, sell or exchange the equipment, etc.
); and, although many of our contracts have termination for convenience clauses and or an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date, our performance creates an asset with an alternative use through the point of delivery.
In the early phases of manufacturing, raw materials and work in process (including subassemblies) consist of common parts that are highly fungible among many different types of products and customer applications.
In some cases, we may also provide the customer with an additional service-type warranty, which we recognize as a separate performance obligation.
To-date, these options have not represented material rights to the customer as the pricing for them reflects standalone selling prices.
As a result, we do not consider options we offer to be performance obligations for which we must allocate a portion of the transaction price.
When allocating the contract’s transaction price, we consider each distinct performance obligation.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt



