item1.txt
The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements of Comtech Telecommunications Corp. and its subsidiaries ("Comtech," "we," "us," or "our") as of and for the three months ended October 31, 2019 and 2018 are unaudited.
The acquisition has an aggregate purchase price for accounting purposes of $32,934,000, of which $27,328,000 was settled in cash and $5,606,000 was settled with the issuance of 208,669 shares of Comtech’s common stock at a volume weighted average stock price of $26.86.
The cash portion of the purchase price was funded principally through borrowings under our Credit Facility.
We are accounting for the acquisition of Solacom under the acquisition method of accounting in accordance with FASB ASC 805, "Business Combinations" ("ASC 805").
The purchase price was allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, based on their fair value as of February 28, 2019, pursuant to the business combination accounting rules.
Acquisition plan expenses were not included as a component of consideration transferred and were expensed in the period incurred.
The fair value of customer relationships was estimated primarily based on the value of the discounted cash flows that the related intangible asset could be expected to generate in the future.
On April 29, 2019, we completed the acquisition of a state and local government NG-911 business pursuant to the Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of April 29, 2019, by and among General Dynamics Information Technology, Inc., Comtech and Comtech NextGen LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of Comtech.
The acquisition of this NG-911 business from GD (the "GD NG-911 business") has a preliminary cash purchase price of $10,000,000 (which is subject to a net working capital adjustment).
In connection with this acquisition, we also announced an award of a five-year contract to develop, implement and operate a NG-911 emergency communications system for a Northeastern state.
Immediately after our announcement of this acquisition, we hired approximately sixty GD NG-911 employees and completed the integration of this business into our Commercial Solutions segment’s public safety and location technologies product line.
We are accounting for the acquisition of this business under the acquisition method of accounting in accordance with FASB ASC 805.


item2.txt
We are a leading provider of advanced communications solutions for both commercial and government customers worldwide.
•Commercial Solutions - offers satellite ground station technologies (such as modems and amplifiers), public safety and location technologies (such as 911 call routing and mapping solutions) to commercial customers and smaller government customers, such as state and local governments.
This segment also serves certain large government customers (including the U.S. government) that have requirements for off-the-shelf commercial equipment.
•Over time - We recognize revenue using the over time method when there is a continuous transfer of control to the customer over the contractual period of performance.
Revenue recognized over time is generally based on the extent of progress toward completion of the related performance obligations.
Under the cost-to-cost measure, the extent of progress toward completion is measured based on the ratio of costs incurred to date to the total estimated costs at completion, including warranty costs.
When these contracts are modified, the additional goods or services are generally not distinct from those already provided.
For over time contracts using a cost-to-cost measure of progress, we have an estimate at completion ("EAC") process in which management reviews the progress and execution of our performance obligations.
For service-based contracts in our public safety and location technologies product line, we recognize revenue over time.
These services are typically recognized as a series of services performed over the contract term using the straight-line method, or based on our customers’ actual usage of the networks and platforms which we provide.
Point in time accounting is also applied to certain contracts in our mission-critical technologies product line.
The contracts related to these product lines do not meet the requirements for over time revenue recognition because our customers cannot utilize the equipment for its intended purpose during any phase of our manufacturing process; customers do not simultaneously receive and or consume the benefits provided by our performance; customers do not control the asset (i.e., prior to delivery, customers cannot direct the use of the asset, sell or exchange the equipment, etc.
); and, although many of our contracts have termination for convenience clauses and or an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date, our performance creates an asset with an alternative use through the point of delivery.
In some cases, we may also provide the customer with an additional service-type warranty, which we recognize as a separate performance obligation.
When service-type warranties represent a separate performance obligation, the revenue is deferred and recognized ratably over the extended warranty period.
Our contracts, from time-to-time, may also include options for additional goods and services.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
Item 1.


