item1.txt
The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements of Comtech Telecommunications Corp. and its subsidiaries ("Comtech," "we," "us," or "our") as of and for the three months ended October 31, 2018 and 2017 are unaudited.
2016-16 “Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory,” which eliminates a prior exception and now requires an entity to recognize the income tax consequences of an intra-entity transfer of an asset other than inventory (for example, intellectual property and property, plant and equipment) when the transfer occurs.
There was no material impact to our consolidated financial statements (including any cumulative-effect adjustment) and disclosures upon such adoption.
•Over time - We recognize revenue using the over time method when there is a continuous transfer of control to the customer over the contractual period of performance.
Revenue recognized over time is generally based on the extent of progress toward completion of the related performance obligations.
The selection of the method to measure progress requires judgment and is based on the nature of the products or services provided.
When these contracts are modified, the additional goods or services are generally not distinct from those already provided.
For over time contracts using a cost-to-cost measure of progress, we have an estimate at completion (“EAC”) process in which management reviews the progress and execution of our performance obligations.
The cost-to-cost method is principally used to account for contracts in our command and control solutions and over-the-horizon microwave systems product lines and, to a lesser extent, certain location based and messaging infrastructure contracts in our enterprise technology solutions product line.
These services are typically recognized as a series of services performed over the contract term using the straight-line method, or based on our customers’ actual usage of the networks and platforms which we provide.
Point in time accounting is also applied to certain contracts in our command and control solutions product line.


item2.txt
We are a leading provider of advanced communications solutions for both commercial and government customers worldwide.
This segment also serves certain large government customers (including the U.S. government) that have requirements for off-the-shelf commercial equipment.
We consider certain accounting policies to be critical due to the estimation process involved in each.
•Over time - We recognize revenue using the over time method when there is a continuous transfer of control to the customer over the contractual period of performance.
Revenue recognized over time is generally based on the extent of progress toward completion of the related performance obligations.
Under the cost-to-cost measure, the extent of progress toward completion is measured based on the ratio of costs incurred to date to the total estimated costs at completion, including warranty costs.
When these contracts are modified, the additional goods or services are generally not distinct from those already provided.
For over time contracts using a cost-to-cost measure of progress, we have an estimate at completion (“EAC”) process in which management reviews the progress and execution of our performance obligations.
For service-based contracts in both our enterprise technology solutions and safety and security technology solutions product lines, we recognize revenue over time.
These services are typically recognized as a series of services performed over the contract term using the straight-line method, or based on our customers’ actual usage of the networks and platforms which we provide.
Modifications to such contracts and or purchase orders, which typically provide for additional quantities or services, are accounted for as a new contract because the pricing for these additional quantities or services are based on standalone selling prices.
Point in time accounting is also applied to certain contracts in our command and control solutions product line.
The contracts related to these product lines do not meet the requirements for over time revenue recognition because our customers cannot utilize the equipment for its intended purpose during any phase of our manufacturing process; customers do not simultaneously receive and or consume the benefits provided by our performance; customers do not control the asset (i.e., prior to delivery, customers cannot direct the use of the asset, sell or exchange the equipment, etc.
); and, although many of our contracts have termination for convenience clauses and or an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date, our performance creates an asset with an alternative use through the point of delivery.
In determining that our equipment has alternative use, we considered the underlying manufacturing process for our products.
In some cases, we may also provide the customer with an additional service-type warranty, which we recognize as a separate performance obligation.
When service-type warranties represent a separate performance obligation, the revenue is deferred and recognized ratably over the extended warranty period.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
Item 1.


