item1.txt
The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements of Comtech Telecommunications Corp. and its subsidiaries ("Comtech," "we," "us," or "our") as of and for the three and nine months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017 are unaudited.
In the opinion of management, the information furnished reflects all material adjustments (which include normal recurring adjustments) necessary for a fair presentation of the results for the unaudited interim periods.
2017-09 "Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718)" ("ASU 2017-09"), issued in May 2017, which provides guidance about which changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award require an entity to apply modification accounting in ASC Topic 718.
Our adoption of this ASU on February 1, 2018 did not have any impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
The fair value of the non-current portion of our Secured Credit Facility as of April 30, 2018 approximates its carrying amount due to its variable interest rate and pricing grid that is dependent upon our leverage ratio as of the end of each fiscal quarter.
Our basic earnings per share ("EPS") is computed based on the weighted average number of common shares (including vested but unissued stock units, share units, performance shares and restricted stock units ("RSUs")), outstanding during each respective period.
Pursuant to FASB ASC 260 "Earnings Per Share," equity-classified stock-based awards that are subject to performance conditions are not considered in our diluted EPS calculations until the respective performance conditions have been satisfied.
As a result of our adoption of ASU 2016-09, the amount of excess tax benefits assuming exercise of in-the-money stock-based awards is no longer included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share on a prospective basis and the denominator for our diluted calculations could increase in the future as compared to prior calculations.
There were no purchases of our common stock during the nine months ended April 30, 2018 or 2017.


item2.txt
This segment also serves certain large government customers (including the U.S. government) that have requirements for off-the-shelf commercial equipment.
A large portion of our revenue from advanced communication solutions is derived from contracts relating to the design, development or manufacture of complex electronic equipment to a buyer’s specification or to provide services relating to the performance of such contracts and is recognized in accordance with FASB ASC 605-35.
For these contracts, we primarily apply the percentage-of-completion accounting method and generally recognize revenue based on the relationship of total costs incurred to total projected costs, or, alternatively, based on output measures, such as units delivered or produced.
Historically, we have been able to perform on our long-term contracts.
We also derive a portion of our revenues for advanced communication solutions from contracts and purchase orders where revenue is recorded on delivery of products or performance of services.
Such revenues are recognized in accordance with the authoritative guidance contained in FASB ASC 605-25 "Revenue Recognition - Multiple Deliverable Revenue Arrangements" ("FASB ASC 605-25") and, as applicable, FASB ASC 605-20 "Revenue Recognition - Services" ("FASB ASC 605-20") and Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2009-14 (FASB ASC Topic 985) "Certain Revenue Arrangements That Include Software Elements."
In summary, we recognize revenue for each separate unit of accounting when the applicable revenue recognition criteria for each element have been met.
We allocate revenue to each separate unit of accounting in a multi-element arrangement based on the relative fair value of each element, using vendor-specific objective evidence ("VSOE") of their fair values, if available.
In the absence of VSOE of fair value, the fee is allocated among each element based on third-party evidence ("TPE") of fair value, which is determined based on competitor pricing for similar deliverables when sold separately.
When we are unable to establish fair value using VSOE or TPE, we use estimated selling price ("ESP") to allocate value to each element.
If we fail the quantitative assessment of goodwill impairment ("quantitative assessment"), pursuant to our adoption of FASB ASU No.
2017-04 in fiscal 2017, we would be required to recognize an impairment loss equal to the amount that a reporting unit's carrying value exceeded its fair value; however, any loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.
On August 1, 2017 (the first day of our fiscal 2018), we performed our annual quantitative assessment using market participant assumptions to determine if the fair value of each of our reporting units with goodwill exceeded its carrying value.
We then calculated a present value of the respective cash flows for each reporting unit to arrive at an estimate of fair value under the income approach.
We provide warranty coverage for most of our products, including products under long-term contracts, for a period of at least one year from the date of shipment.
During the nine months ended April 30, 2018, we recorded an estimated net discrete tax benefit of $14.1 million which, as a result of Tax Reform, primarily related to the remeasurement of deferred tax liabilities associated with non-deductible amortization related to intangible assets.
We perform credit evaluations of our customers and adjust credit limits based upon customer payment history and current creditworthiness, as determined by our review of our customers’ current credit information.
In light of ongoing tight credit market conditions, we continue to see requests from our customers for higher credit limits and longer payment terms.
Because of our strong cash position and the nominal amount of interest we are earning on our cash and cash equivalents, we have, on a limited basis, approved certain customer requests.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
Item 1.


