item1.txt
The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements of Comtech Telecommunications Corp. and its subsidiaries ("Comtech," "we," "us," or "our") as of and for the three and six months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018 are unaudited.
The acquisition has a preliminary purchase price for accounting purposes of $31,533,000, of which $25,927,000 was settled in cash and $5,606,000 was settled with the issuance of 208,699 shares of Comtech’s common stock at a volume weighted average stock price of $26.86.
The cash portion of the purchase price was funded principally through borrowings under our Credit Facility.
Our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity for the three and six months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018 reflect our adoption of this final rule.
•Over time - We recognize revenue using the over time method when there is a continuous transfer of control to the customer over the contractual period of performance.
Revenue recognized over time is generally based on the extent of progress toward completion of the related performance obligations.
In certain instances, typically for firm fixed-price contracts, we use the cost-to-cost measure because it best depicts the transfer of control to the customer which occurs as we incur costs on our contracts.
Under the cost-to-cost measure, the extent of progress toward completion is measured based on the ratio of costs incurred to date to the total estimated costs at completion, including warranty costs.
For over time contracts using a cost-to-cost measure of progress, we have an estimate at completion ("EAC") process in which management reviews the progress and execution of our performance obligations.
The cost-to-cost method is principally used to account for contracts in our command and control solutions and over-the-horizon microwave systems product lines and, to a lesser extent, certain location-based and messaging infrastructure contracts in our enterprise technology solutions product line.


item2.txt
We are a leading provider of advanced communications solutions for both commercial and government customers worldwide.
This segment also serves certain large government customers (including the U.S. government) that have requirements for off-the-shelf commercial equipment.
We believe this segment is a leading provider of satellite communications (such as satellite earth station modems and traveling wave tube amplifiers ("TWTA")), public safety systems (such as next generation 911 ("NG911") technologies) and enterprise application technologies (such as a messaging and trusted location-based technologies).
•Over time - We recognize revenue using the over time method when there is a continuous transfer of control to the customer over the contractual period of performance.
Revenue recognized over time is generally based on the extent of progress toward completion of the related performance obligations.
In certain instances, typically for firm fixed-price contracts, we use the cost-to-cost measure because it best depicts the transfer of control to the customer which occurs as we incur costs on our contracts.
Under the cost-to-cost measure, the extent of progress toward completion is measured based on the ratio of costs incurred to date to the total estimated costs at completion, including warranty costs.
When these contracts are modified, the additional goods or services are generally not distinct from those already provided.
For over time contracts using a cost-to-cost measure of progress, we have an estimate at completion ("EAC") process in which management reviews the progress and execution of our performance obligations.
The cost-to-cost method is principally used to account for contracts in our command and control solutions and over-the-horizon microwave systems product lines and, to a lesser extent, certain location-based and messaging infrastructure contracts in our enterprise technology solutions product line.
For service-based contracts in both our enterprise technology solutions and safety and security technology solutions product lines, we recognize revenue over time.
These services are typically recognized as a series of services performed over the contract term using the straight-line method, or based on our customers’ actual usage of the networks and platforms which we provide.
Point in time accounting is also applied to certain contracts in our command and control solutions product line.
The contracts related to these product lines do not meet the requirements for over time revenue recognition because our customers cannot utilize the equipment for its intended purpose during any phase of our manufacturing process; customers do not simultaneously receive and or consume the benefits provided by our performance; customers do not control the asset (i.e., prior to delivery, customers cannot direct the use of the asset, sell or exchange the equipment, etc.
); and, although many of our contracts have termination for convenience clauses and or an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date, our performance creates an asset with an alternative use through the point of delivery.
In determining that our equipment has alternative use, we considered the underlying manufacturing process for our products.
In some cases, we may also provide the customer with an additional service-type warranty, which we recognize as a separate performance obligation.
When service-type warranties represent a separate performance obligation, the revenue is deferred and recognized ratably over the extended warranty period.
As a result, we do not consider options we offer to be performance obligations for which we must allocate a portion of the transaction price.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt



