fls.txt
We wish to caution readers that all forward-looking statements are necessarily speculative and not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made, and to advise readers that actual results could vary due to a variety of risks and uncertainties.


item1.txt
In May 2017, the FASB issued a new accounting standard which provides guidance about which changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award require an entity to apply modification accounting in ASC Topic 718.
Our Mexico location closed all operations in May 2013 (final closure is pending sale of our local 15,000 sq.
Best International Co. Ltd., a company controlled by the brother of our Chief Executive Officer of approximately $0 and $6,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
We made payments to K.S.
In January 2017, the FASB issued a new accounting standard which clarifies the definition of a business with the objective of adding guidance to assist entities with evaluating whether transactions should be accounted for as acquisitions or disposals of assets or businesses.
Both investments in ZT are accounted for under the cost (plus impairment) basis of accounting.
In January 2017, the FASB issued a new accounting standard which clarifies the definition of a business with the objective of adding guidance to assist entities with evaluating whether transactions should be accounted for as acquisitions or disposals of assets or businesses.
Inventory – Inventory, consisting principally of products held for resale, is recorded at the lower of cost (determined using the first in-first out method) or net realizable value.
The unaudited condensed consolidated interim financial statements include the accounts of the Company and all wholly owned divisions, including its 60% majority-owned subsidiary, Taitron Components Mexico, S.A. de C.V. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”) for interim financial information and the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 8 of Regulation S-X.
These payments were for professional fees related to the operational management of our Taiwan office.


item2.txt
As of March 31, 2019, inventory represented approximately 47% of current assets and 34% of total assets.
We believe that funds generated from operations, existing cash balances and, if necessary, related party short-term loans, are likely to be sufficient to finance our working capital and capital expenditure requirements for the foreseeable future.
The decrease of $233,000 in cash flows provided by operations compared with the prior period resulted from changes in operating assets and liabilities, primarily from inventory and accounts payable compared to the prior period.
The decrease of $44,000 compared with the prior period was primarily due to $76,000 of stock options exercised and partially offset by $32,000 of increased cash dividend payments.
If these funds are not sufficient, we may secure new sources of asset-based lending on accounts receivables or issue debt or equity securities.
Sales returns for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 were $3,000 and $2,000, respectively.
However, if all or a substantial portion of the inventory was required to be immediately liquidated, the inventory would not be as readily marketable or liquid as other items included or classified as a current asset, such as cash.
The increase to our cash dividends was based upon our November 2, 2018 announcement that our quarterly cash dividends increased by 20% from $0.025 per share to $0.03 per share.
If these funds are not sufficient, we may secure new sources of asset-based lending on accounts receivables or issue debt or equity securities.
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements, including the related notes, appearing in Item 1 of Part 1 of this quarterly report on Form 10-Q, as well as our most recent annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
Cash flows used for financing activities were $95,000 and $139,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Otherwise, we may need to liquidate assets to generate the necessary working capital.


item3.txt
Item 3.


item4.txt
Mine Safety Disclosures.
Item 6.


part2.txt
Legal Proceedings.
Exhibits.


