In any case, actual amounts could be different from those estimated.
We have a $3,000,000 credit facility, collateralized by real property, from K.S.
Best International Co. Ltd. for principal repayment of our outstanding balance on our credit facility.
Our $110,000 investment in joint venture as of March 31, 2018, relates to our 49% ownership of Grand Shine Management Limited (Dong Guan, China), an electronic device contract manufacturer, and joint venture with its 51% owner, Teamforce Company Limited.
This investment is accounted for under the cost method basis of accounting.
Certain amounts in the prior year condensed consolidated financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
Best International Co. Ltd., a company controlled by the brother of our Chief Executive Officer of approximately $6,000 for both of the quarters ended March 31, 2018 and 2017.
In March 2016, the FASB issued new accounting standard which simplified certain aspects of the accounting for stock-based payment transactions, including income taxes, classification of awards and classification in the statement of cash flows.
See Note 4.
This investment is accounted for under the cost method basis of accounting.As a result, we expect our components inventory will be more passively marketed and distributed online for clearance through our internet sales portal, however at potentially lower rates due to the pricing pressures normally attributed with online shopping.
We have financed our operations with funds generated from operating activities and borrowings under our revolving credit facility.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
The increase of $859,000 in cash flows provided by operations compared with the prior period resulted from changes in operating assets and liabilities, primarily from inventory, accounts payables and accounts receivables compared to the prior period.
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements, including the related notes, appearing in Item 1 of Part 1of this quarterly report on Form 10-Q, as well as our most recent annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Inventory – Inventory, consisting principally of products held for resale, is recorded at the lower of cost (determined using the first in-first out method) or net realizable value.Exhibits.Item 1.