fls.txt
We discuss many of these risks and uncertainties in Item 1A under the heading “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018.


item1.txt
CSP Inc. ("CSPi" or "CSPI" or "the Company" or "we" or "our") was incorporated in 1968 and is based in Lowell, Massachusetts.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which requires an entity to recognize the amount of revenue to which it expects to be entitled for the transfer of promised goods or services to customers.
We derive revenue from the sale of integrated hardware and software, third-party service contracts, professional services, managed services, financing of hardware and software, and other services.
The Company is a principal if it controls the good or service before that good or service is transferred to the customer.
We record revenue as gross when the Company is a principal party to the arrangement and net of cost when we are acting as a broker or agent.
Other services generally include revenue generated through our royalty, extended warranty, multicomputer repair, and maintenance contracts.
Royalty revenue is sales-based and recognized on date of subsequent sale of the product, which occurs on date of customer shipment.
Revenue from extended warranty contracts is recognized evenly over the period of the warranty.
HPP segment revenue is derived from the sale of integrated hardware and software, maintenance, and other services through the Multicomputer and Myricom product lines.
Myricom revenue is derived from the sale of products, which are comprised of both hardware and embedded software which is essential to the products functionality, and post contract maintenance and support.
Post contract maintenance and support is considered immaterial in the context of the contract and therefore is not a separate performance obligation.
TS Segment revenue is derived from the sale of hardware, software, professional services, third-party service contracts, maintenance contracts, managed services, and financing of hardware and software.
The input method using labor hours expended relative to the total expected hours is used to recognize revenue for professional services.
For items sold separately, including hardware, software, professional services, maintenance contracts, other services, and third-party service contracts, there is no allocation performed as there is one performance obligation.
When the Company has performed work but does not have an unconditional right to payment, a contract asset is recorded.
When the Company has the right to bill a customer, accounts receivable is recorded as an unconditional right exists.
Contract liabilities arise when payment is received before the Company transfers a good or service to the customer.
Revenue recognized in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 that was included in contract liabilities as of the beginning of the period was $1.6 million.
Current capitalized contract costs are within the account other current assets on the consolidated balance sheets for the periods ended December 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018.
Current capitalized fulfillment costs are within the account other current assets on the consolidated balance sheets.


item2.txt
See Note 12 of our consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 for effects of initial adoption and Note 3 of our consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 for further details on our revenue recognition policy.
Our revenues increased by approximately $2.4 million, or 14%, to $19.0 million for the three months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to $16.6 million for the three months ended December 31, 2017.
The increase in overall revenue for the three month period ended December 31, 2018 as compared to the prior fiscal year three month period was substantially the result of an approximately $2.8 million increase in our TS segment revenue, partially offset by an approximately $0.4 million decrease in our HPP segment revenue.
The HPP segment revenue for the three month period ended December 31, 2018 was primarily impacted by lower royalties recognized by approximately $0.5 million on high-speed processing boards during the three months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to the three month period ended December 31, 2017.
Our operating income decreased by approximately $150 thousand resulting in operating income of $15 thousand for the three month period ended December 31, 2018 as compared to operating income of $165 thousand for the three months ended December 31, 2017, primarily as a result of increased selling and marketing expenses and increased engineering expenses for the three month period ended December 31, 2018.
Our income tax expense decreased by approximately $1.2 million to an income tax expense of $2 thousand for the three months ended December 31, 2018.
Our total revenues increased by approximately $2.4 million to $19.0 million for the three months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to $16.6 million of revenues for the three months ended December 31, 2017.
The increase in HPP product revenues for the period of $0.1 million was primarily the result of an increase of approximately $0.4 million in Multicomputer product line shipments, partially due to shipments of parts related to the E2D program, partially offset by a decrease in Myricom product line shipments of $0.3 million for the three months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2017.


item4.txt
The Company evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2018.


