fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited financial statements of TransAct Technologies Incorporated (“TransAct”, the “Company”, “we”, “us”, or “our”) have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S.
GAAP”) for interim financial information.
Sales and usage-based taxes are excluded from revenues.
We have reclassified sales of labels and other recurring revenue items related to restaurant solutions, which includes extended warranty and service contracts, and technical support services, previously included in TSG to Restaurant Solutions for all periods presented in the tables below.
Remaining performance obligations represent the transaction price of firm orders for which a good or service has not been delivered to our customer.
The Company expects to recognize revenue on $4.1 million of its remaining performance obligations within the next 12 months, $0.1 million within the next 24 months and the balance of these remaining performance obligations within the next 36 months.
As of September 30, 2019, we have no allowances for loan losses, unamortized deferred loan fees or unearned discounts.
As of September 30, 2019, $176 thousand of the accrued product warranty liability was classified as current in "Accrued liabilities" in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and the remaining $45 thousand was classified as non-current in "Other liabilities".
We maintain a credit facility (the “TD Bank Credit Facility”) with TD Bank N.A.


item2.txt
As used in this Report, unless the context otherwise requires, references to “we”, “us”, “our”, the “Company” and “TransAct” refer to the consolidated operations of TransAct Technologies Incorporated, and its consolidated subsidiaries.
TransAct is a global leader in developing and selling software-driven technology and printing solutions for high growth markets including restaurant solutions, point of sale (“POS”) automation and banking, casino and gaming, lottery, and oil and gas.
Our world-class products are designed from the ground up based on market and customer requirements and are sold under the BOHA!™, AccuDate™, Epic®, EPICENTRAL™, Ithaca®, and Printrex® brand names.
Known and respected worldwide for innovative designs and real-world service reliability, our thermal and inkjet printers and terminals generate top-quality labels, coupons and transaction records such as receipts, tickets and other documents, as well as printed logging and plotting of data.
products are an all-in-one solution to help restaurants and food service operators of any size automate back-of-house operations.
We sell our products to original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”), value-added resellers, select distributors, as well as directly to end-users.
Our product distribution spans across the Americas, Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Asia, Australia, New Zealand, Latin America, the Caribbean Islands and the South Pacific.
We also offer world-class service, support, spare parts, accessories and printing supplies to our growing worldwide base of products currently in use by our customers.
Through our TransAct Services Group (“TSG”), we provide a complete range of supplies and consumables used in the printing and scanning activities of customers in the restaurant and hospitality, banking, retail, casino and gaming, government and oil and gas exploration markets.
Through our webstore, www.transactsupplies.com, and our direct selling team, we address the demand for these products.
We operate in one reportable segment, the design, development, and marketing of software-driven technology and printing solutions for high growth markets, and provide related services, supplies and spare parts.
Terminals over the balance of 2019 relating to these commitments.
hardware and software could include 2,000 to 3,000 more locations over the next two to three years.
In July 2019, TransAct announced that it secured a new agreement with a large U.S. foodservice provider for the deployment of BOHA!
SaaS-based apps at more than 400 locations by 2021 year end.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Our management, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”) (our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, respectively), evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of September 30, 2019.
Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the company’s management, including its principal executive and principal financial officers, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.


part2.txt
Item 1.
The Company may, in the ordinary course of business, become a party to litigation involving collection matters, contract claims and other legal proceedings relating to the conduct of its business.
Information regarding risk factors appears under Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.


