fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited financial statements of TransAct Technologies Incorporated (“TransAct”, the “Company”, “we”, “us”, or “our”) have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S.
GAAP”) for interim financial information.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments considered necessary for a fair statement of the results for the periods presented have been included and are of a normal recurring nature.
Remaining performance obligations represent the transaction price of firm orders for which a good or service has not been delivered to our customer.
The Company expects to recognize revenue on $3.8 million of its remaining performance obligations within the next 12 months, $0.4 million within the next 24 months and the balance of these remaining performance obligations within the next 36 months.
As of June 30, 2019, $176 thousand of the accrued product warranty liability were classified as current in "Accrued liabilities" in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and the remaining $48 thousand was classified as non-current in "Other liabilities".
The computation of diluted earnings per share excludes the effect of the potential exercise of stock awards, including stock options and restricted stock units, when the average market price of the common stock is lower than the exercise price of the related stock award during the period.
These outstanding stock awards are not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the effect would be anti-dilutive.
For the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, there were 542 thousand and 196 thousand, respectively, of potentially dilutive shares consisting of stock awards that were excluded from the calculation of earnings per diluted share.


item2.txt
As used in this Report, unless the context otherwise requires, references to “we”, “us”, “our”, the “Company” and “TransAct” refer to the consolidated operations of TransAct Technologies Incorporated, and its consolidated subsidiaries.
TransAct is a global leader in developing and selling software-driven technology and printing solutions for high growth markets including restaurant solutions, point of sale (“POS”) automation and banking, casino and gaming, lottery, and oil and gas.
Our world-class products are designed from the ground up based on market and customer requirements and are sold under the BOHA!™, AccuDate™, Epic®, EPICENTRAL™, Ithaca®, and Printrex® brand names.
Known and respected worldwide for innovative designs and real-world service reliability, our thermal and inkjet printers and terminals generate top-quality labels, coupons and transaction records such as receipts, tickets and other documents, as well as printed logging and plotting of data.
products are an all-in-one solution to help restaurants and food service operators of any size automate back-of-house operations.
We sell our products to original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”), value-added resellers, select distributors, as well as directly to end-users.
Our product distribution spans across the Americas, Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Asia, Australia, New Zealand, Latin America, the Caribbean Islands and the South Pacific.
We also offer world-class service, support, spare parts, accessories and printing supplies to our growing worldwide base of products currently in use by our customers.
Through our webstore, www.transactsupplies.com, and our direct selling team, we address the demand for these products.
We operate in one reportable segment, the design, development, and marketing of software-driven technology and printing solutions for high growth markets, and provide related services, supplies and spare parts.
Terminals over the balance of 2019 relating to these commitments.
In July 2019, TransAct announced that it has secured a new agreement with a large U.S. foodservice provider for the deployment of the BOHA!
hardware and software solutions by 2019 year end with an additional approximately 250 locations expected to go live over the following two years.
SaaS based apps and is expected to occur by the end of 2019.
We have reviewed those policies and determined that they remain our critical accounting policies for the six months ended June 30, 2019.
Net sales for the second quarter of 2019 decreased $3.4 million, or 23%, from the same period in 2018.
We expect sales of our Ithaca® 9000 to McDonald’s to be lower in 2019 compared to 2018.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Our management, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer (our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, respectively), evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of June 30, 2019.


part2.txt
Item 1.
The Company may, in the ordinary course of business, become a party to litigation involving collection matters, contract claims and other legal proceedings relating to the conduct of its business.
Information regarding risk factors appears under Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended  December 31, 2018.


