fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited financial statements of TransAct Technologies Incorporated (the “Company") have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S.
GAAP”) for interim financial information.
As of September 30, 2018, $197 thousand of the accrued product warranty liability is classified as current in "Accrued liabilities" in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and the remaining $98 thousand is classified as non-current in "Other liabilities".
The computation of diluted earnings per share excludes the effect of the potential exercise of stock awards, including stock options and restricted stock units, when the average market price of the common stock is lower than the exercise price of the related stock award during the period.
These outstanding stock awards are not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the effect would be anti-dilutive.
For the three months ended September 30, 2017, dividends declared and paid totaled $661 thousand, or $0.09 per share.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we recorded an income tax provision of $1.06 million at an effective tax rate of 19.2%, compared to an income tax provision during the nine months ended September 30, 2017 of $1.66 million at an effective tax rate of 31.4%.
On December 22, 2017, the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
SAB 118 provides a measurement period, not to exceed one year from the enactment of the Tax Reform Act.
The Company maintains a valuation allowance against certain deferred tax assets where realization is not certain.


item2.txt
As used in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, unless the context otherwise requires, references to “we”, “us”, “our”, the “Company” and “TransAct” refer to the consolidated operations of TransAct Technologies Incorporated, and its consolidated subsidiaries.
TransAct Technologies Incorporated (“TransAct”) is a global leader in developing and selling software-driven technology and printing solutions for high growth markets including restaurant solutions, point of sale (“POS”) automation and banking, casino and gaming, lottery, and oil and gas.
Our world-class products are designed from the ground up based on market and customer requirements and are sold under the AccuDate™, Epic, EPICENTRAL™, Ithaca® and Printrex® brand names.
Known and respected worldwide for innovative designs and real-world service reliability, our thermal and inkjet printers and terminals generate top-quality date code, grab-and-go and nutritional labels for food items and transaction records such as receipts, tickets, coupons, register journals and other documents, as well as printed logging and plotting of data.
We sell our products to original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"), value-added resellers ("VARs"), select distributors, as well as directly to end-users.
Our product distribution spans across the Americas, the Middle East, Africa, Asia, Australia, the Caribbean Islands and the South Pacific.
TransAct also provides world-class service, spare parts, accessories and printing supplies to its growing worldwide installed base of products.
Through our TransAct Services Group ("TSG"), we provide a complete range of supplies and consumables used in the printing and scanning activities of customers in the restaurant and hospitality, banking, retail, casino and gaming, government and oil and gas exploration markets.
Through our webstore, www.transactsupplies.com, and our direct selling team, we address the demand for these products.
We operate in one reportable segment, the design, development, and marketing of software-driven technology and printing solutions for high growth markets, and provide related services, supplies and spare parts.
We have reviewed those policies and determined that they remain our critical accounting policies for the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
These increases were partially offset by a 74% decline in unit volume from the lottery market and, to a lesser extent, a 41% decline in unit volume from the restaurant solutions market.
This decrease was partially offset by increased sales of our newer AccuDate XL2e terminal to three large corporate customers in support of large-scale, multi-quarter rollouts of the terminal.
Shipments of AccuDate XL2e terminals exceeded sales of AccuDate 9700 terminals for the second consecutive quarter in the third quarter of 2018.
The increase in domestic POS automation and banking product revenue from the third quarter of 2017 was driven by a 22% increase in sales of our Ithaca® 9000 printer, as sales to McDonald’s have returned to the near record levels experienced during 2017.
We expect this level of sales to McDonald’s to decrease during the fourth quarter of 2018.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Our management, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer (our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, respectively), evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of September 30, 2018.


part2.txt
Item 1.


