fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited financial statements of TransAct Technologies Incorporated (the "Company") have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP") for interim financial information.
As of June 30, 2018, $208 thousand of the accrued product warranty liability is classified as current in "Accrued liabilities" in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and the remaining $95 thousand is classified as non-current in "Other liabilities".
The computation of diluted earnings per share excludes the effect of the potential exercise of stock awards, including stock options and restricted stock units, when the average market price of the common stock is lower than the exercise price of the related stock award during the period.
These outstanding stock awards are not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the effect would be anti-dilutive.
For the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, there were 196 thousand and 407 thousand, respectively, of potentially dilutive shares consisting of stock awards that were excluded from the calculation of earnings per diluted share.
For the three months ended June 30, 2017, dividends declared and paid totaled $663 thousand, or $0.09 per share.
On December 22, 2017, the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
SAB 118 provides a measurement period, not to exceed one year from the enactment of the Tax Reform Act.
However, our federal tax returns for the years 2014 through 2016 remain open to examination.
The Company maintains a valuation allowance against certain deferred tax assets where realization is not certain.


item2.txt
As used in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, unless the context otherwise requires, references to "we", "us", "our", the "Company" and "TransAct" refer to the consolidated operations of TransAct Technologies Incorporated, and its consolidated subsidiaries.
TransAct Technologies Incorporated ("TransAct") is a global leader in developing and selling software-driven technology and printing solutions for high growth markets including restaurant solutions, point of sale ("POS") automation and banking, casino and gaming, lottery, and oil and gas.
Our world-class products are designed from the ground up based on market and customer requirements and are sold under the AccuDate™, Epic, EPICENTRAL™, Ithaca® and Printrex® brand names.
Known and respected worldwide for innovative designs and real-world service reliability, our thermal and inkjet printers and terminals generate top-quality labels and transaction records such as receipts, tickets, coupons, register journals and other documents, as well as printed logging and plotting of data.
We sell our products to original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"), value-added resellers ("VARs"), select distributors, as well as directly to end-users.
Our product distribution spans across the Americas, the Middle East, Africa, Asia, Australia, the Caribbean Islands and the South Pacific.
TransAct also provides world-class service, spare parts, accessories and printing supplies to its growing worldwide installed base of products.
Through our TransAct Services Group ("TSG"), we provide a complete range of supplies and consumables used in the printing and scanning activities of customers in the restaurant and hospitality, banking, retail, casino and gaming, government and oil and gas exploration markets.
Through our webstore, www.transactsupplies.com, and our direct selling team, we address the demand for these products.
We operate in one reportable segment, the design, development, and marketing of software-driven technology and printing solutions for high growth markets, and provide related services, supplies and spare parts.
We have reviewed those policies and determined that they remain our critical accounting policies for the six months ended June 30, 2018.
These increases were partially offset by an 83% decline in unit volume from the lottery market.
The increase in domestic restaurant solutions terminal sales in the second quarter of 2018 compared to the second quarter of 2017 was driven by the initial shipments of the AccuDate XL to two existing customers in support of large-scale, multi-quarter rollouts of the terminal.
Shipments of AccuDate XL terminals exceeded sales of AccuDate 9700 terminals for the first time in the second quarter of 2018.
We expect sales of our restaurant solutions terminals to continue to increase in 2018 compared to 2017 as we benefit from the strategic selling and marketing investments implemented during 2017.
We expect this level of sales to McDonald's to continue into the third quarter of 2018.
The decrease in Non-Printrex consumables was partially offset by AccuDate label sales which nearly tripled in second quarter of 2018 compared to the second quarter of 2017.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Our management, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer (our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, respectively), evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of June 30, 2018.


part2.txt
Item 1.


