fls.txt



item1.txt
Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by U.S. GAAP to be included in full year financial statements.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments considered necessary for a fair statement of the results for the periods presented have been included and are of a normal recurring nature.
These interim financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. Assets and liabilities of such subsidiary have been translated at the end of period exchange rates, and related revenues and expenses have been translated at the weighted average exchange rates with the resulting translation gain or loss recorded in "Accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax", in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
As of March 31, 2018, $196 thousand of the accrued product warranty liability is classified as current in "Accrued liabilities" in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and the remaining $82 thousand is classified as non-current in "Other liabilities".
These outstanding stock awards are not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the effect would be anti-dilutive.
For the three months ended March 31, 2017, dividends declared and paid totaled $587 thousand, or $0.08 per share.
The effective tax rate in the first quarter of 2018 was lower than the first quarter 2017 effective tax rate due to the passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "Tax Reform Act") enacted on December 22, 2017.
On December 22, 2017, the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
SAB 118 provides a measurement period, not to exceed one year from the enactment of the Tax Reform Act.
The Company maintains a valuation allowance against certain deferred tax assets where realization is not certain.
2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), which sets out the principles for the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases for both parties to a contract (i.e., lessees and lessors).
The new standard requires lessees to apply a dual approach, classifying leases as either finance or operating leases based on the principle of whether or not the lease is effectively a financed purchase by the lessee.


item2.txt
As used in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, unless the context otherwise requires, references to "we", "us", "our", the "Company" and "TransAct" refer to the consolidated operations of TransAct Technologies Incorporated, and its consolidated subsidiaries.
TransAct Technologies Incorporated ("TransAct") is a global leader in developing and selling software-driven technology and printing solutions for high growth markets including restaurant solutions, point of sale ("POS") automation and banking, casino and gaming, lottery, mobile and oil and gas.
Our world-class products are designed from the ground up based on market and customer requirements and are sold under the AccuDate™, Epic, EPICENTRAL™, Ithaca®, Printrex® and Responder® brand names.
Known and respected worldwide for innovative designs and real-world service reliability, our thermal and inkjet printers and terminals generate top-quality labels and transaction records such as receipts, tickets, coupons, register journals and other documents, as well as printed logging and plotting of data.
We sell our products to original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"), value-added resellers ("VARs"), select distributors, as well as directly to end-users.
Our product distribution spans across the Americas, the Middle East, Africa, Asia, Australia, the Caribbean Islands and the South Pacific.
TransAct also provides world-class service, spare parts, accessories and printing supplies to its growing worldwide installed base of products.
Through our webstore, www.transactsupplies.com, and our direct selling team, we address the demand for these products.
We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances.
We have reviewed those policies and determined that they remain our critical accounting policies for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
Net sales for the first quarter of 2018 decreased $1.8 million, or 13%, from the same period in 2017.
Printer and terminal sales volume decreased 28% to approximately 31 thousand units driven primarily by an 80% decrease in unit volume from the lottery market and a 29% decrease in unit volume in the POS automation and banking market.
This increase was partially offset by decreased sales of our AccuDate Pro terminal to our U.S. distributor.
We expect sales to McDonald's to decrease for the full year 2018 compared to the full year 2017, as McDonald's completes the implementation of initiatives that use the Ithaca 9000, which began in 2015.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Our management, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer (our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, respectively), evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of March 31, 2018.


part2.txt
Item 1.
The Company may, in the ordinary course of business, become a party to litigation involving collection matters, contract claims and other legal proceedings relating to the conduct of its business.


