fls.txt
Certain statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2019 (this “Report”), including without limitation statements in this Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, which are not historical facts are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”) and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited financial statements of TransAct Technologies Incorporated (“TransAct”, the “Company”, “we”, “us”, or “our”) have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S.
GAAP”) for interim financial information.
As of March 31, 2019, the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations was $5.1 million.
The Company expects to recognize revenue on $4.3 million of its remaining performance obligations within the next 12 months, $0.7 million within the next 24 months and the balance of these remaining performance obligations within the next 36 months.
As of March 31, 2019, $199 thousand of the accrued product warranty liability were classified as current in "Accrued liabilities" in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and the remaining $54 thousand was classified as non-current in "Other liabilities".
The computation of diluted earnings per share excludes the effect of the potential exercise of stock awards, including stock options and restricted stock units, when the average market price of the common stock is lower than the exercise price of the related stock award during the period.
These outstanding stock awards are not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the effect would be anti-dilutive.
For the three months ended March 31, 2018, dividends declared and paid totaled $673 thousand, or $0.09 per share.
An entity may choose to use either (1) its effective date or (2) the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented in the financial statements as its date of initial application.
This classification will determine whether lease expense is recognized based on an effective interest method or on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease, respectively.


item2.txt
As used in this Report, unless the context otherwise requires, references to “we”, “us”, “our”, the “Company” and “TransAct” refer to the consolidated operations of TransAct Technologies Incorporated, and its consolidated subsidiaries.
TransAct is a global leader in developing and selling software-driven technology and printing solutions for high growth markets including restaurant solutions, point of sale (“POS”) automation and banking, casino and gaming, lottery, and oil and gas.
Our world-class products are designed from the ground up based on market and customer requirements and are sold under the BOHA!™, AccuDate™, Epic®, EPICENTRAL™, Ithaca®, and Printrex® brand names.
Known and respected worldwide for innovative designs and real-world service reliability, our thermal and inkjet printers and terminals generate top-quality labels, coupons and transaction records such as receipts, tickets and other documents, as well as printed logging and plotting of data.
We sell our products to original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”), value-added resellers, select distributors, as well as directly to end-users.
Our product distribution spans across the Americas, Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Asia, Australia, the Caribbean Islands and the South Pacific.
We also offer world-class service, support, spare parts, accessories and printing supplies to our growing worldwide base of products currently in use by our customers.
We operate in one reportable segment, the design, development, and marketing of software-driven technology and printing solutions for high growth markets, and provide related services, supplies and spare parts.
We have reviewed those policies and determined that they remain our critical accounting policies for the three months ended March 31, 2019.
Net sales for the first quarter of 2019 decreased $0.7 million, or 6%, from the same period in 2018.
Printer, terminal and other hardware sales volume decreased 11% to approximately 28,000 units driven primarily by a 27% decrease in unit volume from the POS automation and banking market and a 5% decrease in unit volume in the casino and gaming market.
The decrease in domestic restaurant solutions revenue for the first quarter of 2019 compared to the first quarter of 2018 was driven largely by lower sales of our AccuDate 9700 terminal to our former U.S. distributor.
software on a SaaS subscription basis.
This increase was partially offset by a 70% decline in international sales of our off-premise gaming printers to Europe, Australia and Asia.
Service revenue also increased 24% for the first quarter of 2019 compared to the first quarter of 2018.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Our management, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer (our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, respectively), evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of March 31, 2019.


part2.txt
Item 1.
The Company may, in the ordinary course of business, become a party to litigation involving collection matters, contract claims and other legal proceedings relating to the conduct of its business.


