fls.txt
Forward-looking statements by their nature address matters that are, to different degrees, uncertain, such as statements about expected earnings, revenues, growth, liquidity or other financial matters.


item1.txt
The condensed consolidated balance sheets as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the related condensed consolidated statements of income and condensed consolidated statements of comprehensive income for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, and the related condensed consolidated statements of cash flow for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 include the accounts of Amphenol Corporation and its subsidiaries (“Amphenol”, the “Company”, “we”, “our”, or “us”).
All material intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
The condensed consolidated financial statements included herein are unaudited.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America have been included.
Under this transition method, the Company’s results in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 are presented under Topic 606, while the comparative results for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 were not retrospectively adjusted, as such results were recognized in accordance with the revenue recognition policy discussed under Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in Note 1 of the Company’s 2017 Annual Report.
For these contracts, we now recognize revenue over time as control of the goods transfers, rather than when the goods are delivered, and title, risk and reward of ownership are passed to the customer, as under previous guidance.
The adoption of Topic 606 did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements as of the adoption date and as of and for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018.
Refer to Note 3 herein for further discussion regarding revenue recognition and related policies.
ASU 2016-02 also provides various optional practical expedients in transition, which we continue to evaluate.
The Securities and Exchange Commission has also recently issued several final rules, including but not limited to SEC Final Rule Release No.
The amendments also expand the disclosure requirements regarding the analysis of stockholders' equity for interim financial statements, in which entities will be required to present a reconciliation for each period for which a statement of comprehensive income is required to be filed.
Prior to the adoption of Topic 606, the Company’s revenue recognition policy was in accordance with ASC Topic 605, Revenue Recognition.
Effective January 1, 2018, the Company adopted Topic 606 using the modified retrospective transition method, resulting in accounting policy changes surrounding revenue recognition which replaced certain related policies discussed under Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates (in Item 7) and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (in Note 1) of the Company’s 2017 Annual Report.
The adoption of Topic 606 did not have a material impact on the Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements.
Our contracts do not have any significant financing components, as payment terms are generally due net 30 to 120 days after delivery.
Based on the respective contract terms, most of our contracts’ revenues are recognized either (i) upon shipment based on free on board (“FOB”) shipping point, (ii) when the product arrives at its destination or (iii) when the product is pulled from consignment inventory.
This method reasonably depicts when and as control of the goods transfers to the customer, since it measures our progress in producing the goods, which is generally commensurate with this transfer of control.
Since our performance obligations are part of contracts that generally have original durations of one year or less, we have elected not to disclose the aggregate amount of transaction prices associated with unsatisfied or partially unsatisfied performance obligations as of September 30, 2018.
The Company maintains a reserve for unprocessed and estimated future price adjustment claims and returns as a refund liability.
reserve is recorded as a reduction to revenue in the same period that the related revenue is recorded and is calculated based on an analysis of historical claims and returns over a period of time to appropriately account for current pricing and business trends.
These reserves were not significant upon the adoption of Topic 606 nor were they significant in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of September 30, 2018.
Standard product warranty coverage which provides assurance that our products will conform to the contractually agreed-upon specifications for a limited period from the date of shipment is typically offered, while extended or separately-priced warranty coverage is typically not offered.
The warranty claim is generally limited to a credit equal to the purchase price or a promise to repair or replace the product for a specified period of time at no additional charge.
The Company accounts for shipping and handling activities related to contracts with customers as a cost to fulfill our promise to transfer control of the related product, including any such costs incurred after the customer has obtained control of the goods.
Contract assets represent unbilled receivables, which generally arise when revenue recognized over time exceed amounts billed to customers.
Contract liabilities represent billings or advanced consideration received from customers in excess of revenue recognized to date.


item2.txt



item3.txt
The Company may borrow under its Revolving Credit Facility and Commercial Paper Programs.


item4.txt
The Company’s management, with the participation of the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, has evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures, pursuant to Rules 13a-15(e) or 15d-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), as of the end of the period covered by this report.


part2.txt
The Company has been named as a defendant in several legal actions arising from normal business activities.


