Item 2.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Business Overview
This section should be read in conjunction with the AstroNova condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere herein and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2018.
•
Product Identification—offers product identification and digital label printer hardware, software, servicing contracts, parts and supplies.
Supplies includes the media (substrate) and ink, toner, and thermal transfer ribbon used with the Company’s printers and the various parts used to maintain the printers.
•
The Company markets and sells its products and services globally through a diverse distribution structure of direct sales personnel, manufacturers’ representatives and authorized dealers that deliver a full complement of branded products and services to customers in our respective markets.
Results of Operations
Three Months Ended October 27, 2018 vs. Three Months Ended October 28, 2017
Revenue for the third quarter of the current year was $34.2 million, representing an 18.9% increase compared to the previous year third quarter revenue of $28.8 million.
Revenue through domestic channels for the current year third quarter was $21.5 million, an increase of 18.9% over the prior year’s third quarter.
International revenue for the third quarter of the current year was $12.7 million, also an 18.9% increase over the previous year’s third quarter and represents 37% of AstroNova’s third quarter revenue.
Current year third quarter international revenue includes an unfavorable foreign exchange rate impact of $0.2 million.
Current year third quarter gross profit was $13.9 million, a 17.9% increase compared to prior year third quarter gross profit of $11.8 million.
The Company’s current quarter gross profit margin of 40.7% reflects a 0.3 percentage point decrease from the prior year third quarter gross profit margin of 41.0%.
The lower gross profit margin for the current quarter compared to the prior year is primarily attributable to increased period costs and unfavorable product mix.
Other expense in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 was $0.5 million compared to $12 thousand in the prior year third quarter.
Current quarter other expense includes interest expense on debt of $0.2 million and foreign exchange loss of $0.3 million.
Other income for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 includes $0.1 million of interest expense on debt and $0.2 million of foreign exchange loss, offset by $0.3 million of investment income and income received from the settlement of a legal matter related to patent infringement.
The Company reported net income of $1.4 million or $0.20 per diluted share for the third quarter of the current year, consistent with net income for the prior year third quarter of $1.4 million or $0.21 per diluted share.
Net income was 4.1% of revenue for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to 4.9% for the third quarter of fiscal 2018.
Nine Months Ended October 27, 2018 vs. Nine Months Ended October 28, 2017
Revenue for the first nine months of the current year was $99.5 million, representing a 23.3% increase compared to the previous year’s first nine months of revenue of $80.7 million.
Revenue through domestic channels for the first nine months of the current year was $60.8 million, an increase of 19.2% from the prior year.
International revenue for the first nine months of the current year was $38.7 million, a 30.3% increase from the previous year.
The current year’s first nine months international revenue included a favorable foreign exchange rate impact of $0.9 million.
Supplies revenue in the first nine months of the current year was $52.7 million, representing a 10.4% increase over the prior year’s first nine months revenue of $47.7 million.
The current year increase in supplies revenue is related primarily to increases in digital color printer supplies product revenue, and label and tag revenue in the Product Identification segment.
Gross profit for the first nine months of the current year was $39.4 million, a 25.7% increase from prior year’s first nine months gross profit of $31.4 million.
The Company’s current year gross profit margin of 39.6% reflects an increase from the prior year’s first nine months gross profit margin of 38.9%.
The higher gross profit and related margin for the current year compared to the prior year is primarily due to higher sales and favorable product mix.
Other expense during the first nine months of the current year was $1.3 million compared to $45 thousand in the first nine months of the previous year.
Current year other expense includes interest expense on debt of $0.6 million and foreign exchange loss of $0.8 million, partially offset by investment and other income of $0.1 million.
Other expense for fiscal 2018 included interest expense on debt of $0.2 million and foreign exchange loss of $0.2 million, partially offset by $0.3 million of investment and other income received from the settlement of a legal matter related to patent infringement.
The Company reported net income of $3.4 million, or $0.49 per diluted share, for the first nine months of the current year, which included $0.8 million of after-tax income, or $0.12 per diluted share, as a result of a change in accounting estimates in the first quarter for product cost and operating expenses related to a transition services agreement entered into with Honeywell in connection with the Honeywell Agreement.
In addition, during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, a change in accounting estimate for revenue subject to customer rebates under the Honeywell Agreement increased net income by $0.3 million or $0.05 per diluted share.
In the prior year’s first nine months, the Company recognized net income of $2.7 million, or $0.38 per diluted share.
Net income was 3.4% of revenue for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 compared to 3.3% for the first nine months of fiscal 2018.
Segment Analysis
Product Identification
Revenue from the Product Identification segment increased 6.0% in the third quarter of the current year, with revenue of $21.7 million compared to $20.5 million in the same period of the prior year.
Hardware revenue increased 14.4% compared to prior year primarily due to an increase in demand for the new TrojanLabel printer products.
The current year third quarter also received a solid contribution from the supplies product line revenue, which increased 5.6% from the same period in the prior year.
The current quarter increase in supplies revenue is due to the continued increase in demand for label and tag supplies, which have increased 9.7% in the current year third quarter compared to the same period in the prior year.
Product Identification current quarter segment operating profit was $2.0 million, reflecting a profit margin of 9.3%.
This compares to the prior year’s third quarter segment profit of $2.7 million and related profit margin of 13.0%.
The decline in Product Identification current year third quarter segment operating profit and margin is primarily due to product mix and higher manufacturing and operating expenses.
Revenues from the Product Identification segment increased 5.8% to $63.4 million in the first nine months of the current year from $59.9 million in the same period of the prior year, attributable to an increase in supplies revenue of 5.9% due to increased demand for digital color printer supplies products, as well as label and tag products.
The increase in current year revenue was also due to a contribution from increased sales of TrojanLabel printers, which experienced double-digit growth rates in the current year.
Product Identification current year segment operating profit of $5.8 million and profit margin of 9.2% declined from the prior year segment operating profit of $7.8 million and related profit margin of 12.9%.
The decrease in current year segment operating profit and margin is primarily due to product mix and higher manufacturing and operating expenses.
Financial Condition and Liquidity
Overview
Generally, our primary source of liquidity is cash generated from operating activities.
We may also utilize amounts available under our revolving credit facility, as described below, to supplement operating activities and to fund a portion of our capital expenditures, contractual contingent consideration obligations, and future acquisitions.
We believe that our current level of cash and short-term financing capabilities along with future cash flows from operations will be sufficient to meet our operating and capital needs for at least the next 12 months.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we converted our securities available for sale to cash.
In the second quarter of fiscal 2019, we drew $3.0 million on our revolving credit facility, of which $1.5 million was repaid and $1.5 million remains outstanding as of October 27, 2018.
Our cash and cash equivalents at the end of the third quarter were $7.8 million and we have $8.5 million remaining available under our revolving credit facility.
Indebtedness
On February 28, 2017, the Company and its wholly owned Danish subsidiaries, ANI ApS and TrojanLabel ApS (together, the “Parties”), entered into a Credit Agreement with Bank of America, N.A.
(the “Lender”).
The Credit Agreement provided for a term loan to ANI ApS in the principal amount of $9.2 million.
The Credit Agreement also provided for a $10.0 million revolving credit facility available to the Company for general corporate purposes.
In connection with the Honeywell Purchase and License Agreement, on September 28, 2017, the Parties entered into a First Amendment to the Credit Agreement with the Lender.
The First Amendment amended the existing Credit Agreement to permit the Honeywell Agreement and temporarily increased the amount available for borrowing under the revolving credit facility from $10.0 million to $15.0 million.
The initial upfront payment of $14.6 million for the Honeywell Agreement was paid using borrowings under the Company’s revolving credit facility.
On November 30, 2017, the Parties entered into a Second Amendment to the Credit Agreement with the Lender.
The Second Amendment provided for a term loan to the Company in the principal amount of $15.0 million, in addition to the revolving credit facility for the Company and the term loan previously borrowed by ANI ApS at the original closing under the Credit Agreement.
The proceeds from the term loan were used to repay the entire $14.6 million principal balance of the revolving loans outstanding under the revolving credit facility.
The principal amount of the revolving credit facility which had been temporarily increased to $15.0 million was reduced to $10.0 million effective upon closing of the Second Amendment and the maturity date was extended to November 30, 2022.
On April 17, 2018, the Parties entered into a Third Amendment to the Credit Agreement with the Lender.
The Third Amendment provides that no “Immaterial Subsidiary” will be required to become a guarantor or securing party under (unless requested by the Lender during default) or have its equity pledged pursuant to the Credit Agreement.
The Third Amendment defines “Immaterial Subsidiary” as any subsidiary of the Company with (a) consolidated total assets that do not exceed 5.0% of the consolidated total assets of the Company and its subsidiaries and (b) revenues that do not exceed 5.0% of the consolidated revenues of the Company and its subsidiaries, as of the last day of the most recent fiscal quarter; provided that Immaterial Subsidiaries shall not account for, in the aggregate, more than 10% the of consolidated total assets or consolidated revenues of the Company and its subsidiaries.
In connection with the Credit Agreement, AstroNova and ANI ApS entered into certain hedging arrangements with the Lender to manage the variable interest rate risk and currency risk associated with its payments in respect of the term loans.
Revolving credit loans may be borrowed, at the Company’s option, in U.S.
Dollars or, subject to certain conditions, Euros, British Pounds, Canadian Dollars or Danish Krone.
Amounts borrowed under the revolving credit facility bear interest at a rate per annum equal to, at the Company’s option, either (a) the LIBOR rate (or in the case of revolving credit loans denominated in a currency other than U.S.
Dollars, the applicable quoted rate), plus a margin that varies within a range of 1.0% to 1.5% based on the Company’s consolidated leverage ratio, or (b) a fluctuating reference rate equal to the highest of (i) the federal funds’ rate plus 0.50%, (ii) Bank of America’s publicly announced prime rate or (iii) the LIBOR rate plus 1.00%, plus a margin that varies within a range of 0.0% to 0.5% based on the Company’s consolidated leverage ratio.
The Company is required to pay a commitment fee on the undrawn portion of the revolving credit facility at the rate of 0.25% per annum.
Outstanding borrowings under the revolving credit line during fiscal 2019 bear interest at an annual rate of 5.5% and the Company has accrued $38 thousand on the outstanding obligation for the nine months ended October 27, 2018.
The obligations of ANI ApS in respect of the $9.2 million term loan are guaranteed by the Company and TrojanLabel.
The Company’s obligations in respect of the $15.0 million term loan, revolving credit facility and its guarantee in respect of the ANI ApS term loan are secured by substantially all of the assets of the Company (including a pledge of a portion of the equity interests held by the Company in ANI ApS and the Company’s wholly-owned German subsidiary Astro-Med GmbH), subject to certain exceptions.
The Parties must comply with various customary financial and non-financial covenants under the Credit Agreement.
The Lender is entitled to accelerate repayment of the loans and to terminate its revolving credit commitment under the Credit Agreement upon the occurrence of any of various customary events of default.
As of October 27, 2018, we believe the Company is in compliance with all of the covenants in the Credit Agreement.
Cash Flow
The Company’s statements of cash flows for the nine months ended October 27, 2018 and October 28, 2017 are included on page 6 of this report.
Net cash provided by operating activities was $1.3 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 compared to $2.0 million for the same period of the previous year.
The decrease in net cash provided by operations for the first nine months of the current year is primarily due to payments of prior quarters’ accrued expenses to Honeywell under the TSA agreement and the increase in inventory to support the transition of the production of printers to the West Warwick facility in accordance with the Honeywell TSA.
The combination of these factors on working capital decreased cash by $7.2 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2019, compared to a decrease of $2.4 million for the same period in fiscal 2018.
The current year decrease in cash provided by operations was slightly offset by an increase in non-cash amortization related to the Honeywell acquisition.
The accounts receivable balance was $21.7 million at the end of the third quarter compared to $22.4 million at year end and the collection cycle decreased to 50 days compared to 55 days at year end.
The inventory balance increased to $28.3 million at the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to $27.6 million at year end and inventory days on hand increased to 126 days at the end of the current quarter from 124 days at the prior year end.
The decreased cash and investment position at October 27, 2018 as compared to year end, primarily resulted from increased cash used in operations as discussed above, principal payments of long-term debt of $4.0 million, dividends paid of $1.4 million and cash used to acquire property, plant and equipment of $1.9 million.
The Company’s backlog increased 15.1% from year-end to $24.5 million at the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2019.
Contractual Obligations, Commitments and Contingencies
There have been no material changes to our contractual obligations as disclosed in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2018, other than those which occur in the ordinary course of business.
Critical Accounting Policies, Commitments and Certain Other Matters
In the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2018, the Company’s most critical accounting policies and estimates upon which our financial status depends were identified as those relating to revenue recognition, warranty claims, bad debts, inventories, income taxes, long-lived assets, goodwill and share-based compensation.
We considered the disclosure requirements of Financial Release (“FR”) 60 regarding critical accounting policies and FR-61 regarding liquidity and capital resources, certain trading activities and related party disclosures, and concluded that nothing materially changed during the quarter that would warrant further disclosure under these releases.
Forward-Looking Statements
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q may contain “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements are not statements of historical fact, but rather reflect our current expectations concerning future events and results.
We generally use the words “believes,” “expects,” “intends,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “likely,” “continues,” “may,” “will,” and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements.
Such forward-looking statements, including those concerning our expectations, involve risks, uncertainties and other factors, some of which are beyond our control, which may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.
Factors which could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated include, but are not limited to (a) general economic, financial and business conditions; (b) declining demand in the test and measurement markets, especially defense and aerospace; (c) competition in the specialty printer industry; (d) ability to develop market acceptance of our products and effective design of customer required features; (e) competition in the data acquisition industry; (f) the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on the results of operations; (g) the ability to successfully integrate acquisitions and realize benefits from divestitures; (h) the business abilities and judgment of personnel and changes in business strategy; (i) the efficacy of research and development investments to develop new products; (j) the launching of significant new products which could result in unanticipated expenses; (k) bankruptcy or other financial problems at major suppliers or customers that could cause disruptions in the Company’s supply chain or difficulty in collecting amounts owed by such customers; and (l) other risks included under “Item 1A-Risk Factors” in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2018.
We assume no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
Item 6.
Exhibits
Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Company and all amendments thereto (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3A to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended April 30, 2016).
By-laws of the Company as amended to date (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3B to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2008 (File no.
000-13200)).
Certification of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
Certification of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
