Item 3.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  

During the three months ended April 28, 2018, there were no material changes to our market risk disclosures as set forth in Part II,

 Item 7A “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 31, 2018.
Table of Contents 

 Item 4.
Controls and Procedures  

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures  

Our management has evaluated, under the supervision and with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this report pursuant to Rule 13a-15(b) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act).
Based on that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer have concluded that, as of the end of the period covered by this report, our disclosure controls and procedures are effective in ensuring that information required to be disclosed in our Exchange Act reports is (1) recorded, processed, summarized and reported in a timely manner, and (2) accumulated and communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting  

There have been no changes in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during our most recent fiscal quarter that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to have materially affected, our internal control over financial reporting.
Legal Proceedings  

There are no pending or threatened legal proceedings against the Company believed to be material to the financial position or results of operations of the Company.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors  


There have been no material updates to the risk factors previously disclosed in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2018.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds  



 (a) Employees of the Company delivered 2,383 shares of the Company’s common stock toward the satisfaction of taxes due with respect to vesting of restricted shares.
The shares delivered were valued at an average market value of $14.26 per share and are included with treasury stock in the consolidated balance sheet.
This transaction did not impact the number of shares authorized for repurchase under the Company’s current repurchase program.
The shares delivered were valued at an average market value of $14.47 per share and are included with treasury stock in the consolidated balance sheet.
This transaction did not impact the number of shares authorized for repurchase under the Company’s current repurchase program.
The shares delivered were valued at an average market value of $14.23 per share and are included with treasury stock in the consolidated balance sheet.
This transaction did not impact the number of shares authorized for repurchase under the Company’s current repurchase program.
The shares delivered were valued at an average market value of $15.95 per share and are included with treasury stock in the consolidated balance sheet.
This transaction did not impact the number of shares authorized for repurchase under the Company’s current repurchase program.
Table of Contents 

 Item 6.
Exhibits  



Table of Contents 

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
