Item 2.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

Business Overview  

This section should be read in conjunction with the AstroNova condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere herein and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2019.
•    

Product Identification (PI) – offers digital label printers, over-printers, labeling software, spare parts, service contracts and related printing supplies such as pressure sensitive labels, tags, inks, toners and thermal transfer ribbons used in those product identification digital printers.
•    


The Company markets and sells its products and services globally through a diverse distribution structure of direct sales personnel, manufacturers’ representatives and authorized dealers that deliver a full complement of branded products and services to customers in our respective markets.
Our growth strategy centers on organic growth through product innovation made possible by research and development initiatives, as well as strategic acquisitions that fit into or complement existing core businesses.
Table of Contents 

Results of Operations  

Three Months Ended May 4, 2019 vs. Three Months Ended April 28, 2018  



The first quarter of fiscal 2020 consisted of a 13-week period as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2019 which consisted of a 12-week period.
Revenue for the first quarter of the current year was $36.2 million, representing a 14.9% increase compared to the previous year first quarter revenue of $31.5 million.
Revenue through domestic channels for the current year first quarter was $22.0 million, an increase of 14.6% over the prior year’s first quarter.
International revenue for the first quarter of the current year was $14.2 million, a 15.8% increase over the previous year first quarter, and represents 39.2% of AstroNova’s first quarter’s revenue.
Current year first quarter international revenue includes an unfavorable foreign exchange rate impact of $0.6 million.
Service and other revenues of $3.6 million in the current quarter increased 25.9% from prior year first quarter service and other revenues of $2.8 million, primarily due to an increase in parts revenue related to the aerospace printer product line acquired from Honeywell in fiscal 2018.
Current year first quarter gross profit was $14.2 million, a 17.6% increase compared to prior year first quarter gross profit of $12.1 million.
The Company’s current quarter gross profit margin of 39.4% reflects a 0.9 percentage point increase from prior year first quarter gross profit margin of 38.5%.
The higher gross profit and related profit margin for the current quarter compared to prior year’s first quarter is primarily attributable to increased sales and lower manufacturing variable costs.
Other expense in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 was $0.4 million compared to $0.3 million in the prior year first quarter.
Current quarter other expense includes interest expense on debt of $0.2 million and foreign exchange loss of $0.2 million.
Other expense for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 consists primarily of interest expense on debt of $0.2 million and foreign exchange loss of $0.1 million.
The provision for federal, state and foreign income taxes for the first quarter of the current year was $0.4 million, which includes a benefit of $53 thousand related to the expiration of the statute of limitations on a previously uncertain tax position and a $97 thousand benefit related to windfall tax benefits related to the Company’s stock and reflects an effective tax rate of 19.0%.
This compares to the prior year’s first quarter tax provision on income of $0.2 million, which included a benefit of $78 thousand related to the expiration of the statute of limitations on a previously uncertain tax position and a $30 thousand benefit related to windfall tax benefits related to the Company’s stock and reflected an effective tax rate of 18.2%.
The Company reported net income of $1.7 million or $0.23 per diluted share for the first quarter of the current year.
On a comparable basis, net income for the prior year first quarter was $0.8 million or $0.12 per diluted share, which included after-tax income of $0.8 million, or $0.12 per diluted share, as a result of a change in accounting estimates for product cost and operating expenses related to a transition services agreement entered into as a part of the fiscal 2018 Honeywell licenses and product line acquisition.
In addition, during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, a change in accounting estimate for revenue subject to customer rebates as part of the Honeywell licenses and product line acquisition increased net income by $0.3 million or $0.05 per diluted share.
Return on revenue was 4.7% for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to 2.6% for the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Table of Contents 

Segment Analysis  



Product Identification  

Revenue from the Product Identification segment increased 18.2% in the first quarter of the current year, with revenue of $23.6 million compared to $20.0 million in the same period of the prior year.
The current quarter increase in revenue is primarily attributable to the increase in supplies revenue, specifically, labels and tag supplies revenue and inkjet supply revenue, both experiencing double digit growth as compared to the same period in the prior year.
Also contributing to the increase in revenue for the current quarter was the 6.1% increase in hardware revenue as a result of the Company’s new five-color digital label printer, as well as an increase in sales of monochromatic printers.
Hardware revenue increases were slightly tempered by lower sales of the Company’s other digital color printers within the product group.
The current quarter also experienced growth in parts revenue compared to the same period in the prior year.
Product Identification’s current quarter segment operating profit was $2.9 million, reflecting a profit margin of 12.2%.
This compares to prior year’s first quarter segment profit of $1.7 million and related profit margin of 8.3%.
The increase in Product Identification current year first quarter segment operating margin is primarily due to higher sales, product mix and lower manufacturing and period costs.
Financial Condition and Liquidity  

Overview  

Generally, our primary sources of liquidity are cash generated from operating activities and borrowings.
From time to time, we may also utilize amounts available under our revolving credit facility, as described below, to supplement cash generated from operating activities and to fund a portion of our capital expenditures, contractual contingent consideration obligations, and future acquisitions.
We believe that our current level of cash and short-term financing capabilities along with future cash flows from operations will be sufficient to meet our operating and capital needs for at least the next 12 months.
Table of Contents 

Our cash and cash equivalents at the end of the first quarter were $5.8 million and we had $8.5 million available under our revolving credit facility.
Indebtedness  

In fiscal 2018, the Company and the Company’s wholly owned Danish subsidiaries, ANI ApS and TrojanLabel ApS, entered into a credit agreement with Bank of America, N.A.
The Credit Agreement also provides for a $10.0 million revolving credit facility for the Company.
Both term loans bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the LIBOR rate plus a margin that varies within a range of 1.0% to 1.5% based on the Company’s consolidated leverage ratio.
In connection with our entry into the Credit Agreement, ANI ApS entered into a hedging agreement to manage the variable interest rate risk and currency risk associated with its payments in respect to the term loan.
Under this combined arrangement, payments of principal and interest with respect to approximately $8.9 million of the principal of the term loan will be made in Danish Krone, and interest on such principal amount will be payable at a fixed rate of 0.67% per annum for the entire term, subject only to potential changes based on the Company’s consolidated leverage ratio.
Additionally, the Company entered into a hedging agreement to manage the variable interest rate risk associated with its payments with respect to the $15.0 million term loan.
Under this combined arrangement, interest will be payable at a fixed rate of 2.04% per annum for the entire term, plus an incremental margin of 1.0% to 1.5%, based on the Company’s consolidated leverage ratio.
Table of Contents 

Revolving credit loans may be borrowed, at the Company’s option, in U.S.
Dollars or, subject to certain conditions, Euros, British Pounds, Canadian Dollars or Danish Krone.
Amounts borrowed under the revolving credit facility bear interest at a rate per annum equal to, at the Company’s option, either (a) the LIBOR rate (or, in the case of revolving credit loans denominated in a currency other than U.S.
Dollars, the applicable quoted rate), plus a margin that varies within a range of 1.0% to 1.5% based on the Company’s consolidated leverage ratio, or (b) a fluctuating reference rate equal to the highest of (i) the federal funds’ rate plus 0.50%, (ii) Bank of America’s publicly announced prime rate or (iii) the LIBOR rate plus 1.00%, plus a margin that varies within a range of 0.0% to 0.5% based on the Company’s consolidated leverage ratio.
The Company is required to pay a commitment fee on the undrawn portion of the revolving credit facility at the rate of 0.25% per annum.
Outstanding borrowings under the revolving credit line during fiscal 2020 bear interest at an annual rate of 5.75% and the Company has paid $19,000 of interest expense for revolving credit line borrowings for the quarter ended May 4, 2019.
The obligations of ANI ApS in respect of the $9.2 million term loan are guaranteed by the Company and TrojanLabel ApS.
The Company’s obligations in respect of the $15.0 million term loan, revolving credit facility and its guarantee in respect of the ANI ApS term loan are secured by substantially all of the assets of the Company (including a pledge of a portion of the equity interests held by the Company in ANI ApS and the Company’s wholly owned German subsidiary, AstroNova GmbH), subject to certain exceptions.
The Lender is entitled to accelerate repayment of the loans and to terminate its revolving credit commitment under the Credit Agreement upon the occurrence of any of various customary events of default.
The Parties must comply with various customary financial and non-financial covenants under the Credit Agreement.
As of May 4, 2019, the Company believes it is in compliance with all of the covenants in the Credit Agreement.
Cash Flow  

The Company’s statements of cash flows for the three months ended May 4, 2019 and April 28, 2018 are included on page 7 of this report.
Net cash provided by operating activities was $1.0 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to cash used by operating activities of $1.6 million for the same period of the previous year.
The increase in net cash provided by operations for the current quarter is primarily due to the increase in net income and the decrease in cash used for working capital.
The combination of changes in accounts receivable, inventory, accounts payable and accrued expenses decreased cash by $3.4 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2020, compared to a decrease of $4.5 million for the same period in fiscal 2019.
The accounts receivable balance decreased to $22.0 million at the end of the first quarter compared to $23.5 million at year end and the collection cycle increased to 53 days compared to 49 days at year end.
The inventory balance was $32.0 million at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2020, compared to $30.2 million at year end and inventory days on hand increased to 131 days at the end of the current quarter from 120 days at the prior year end.
The decreased cash and investment position at May 4, 2019 primarily resulted from increased cash provided by in operations as discussed above, offset by principal payments of long-term debt of $1.6 million, principal payment of guaranteed royalty obligation of $0.4 million, dividends paid of $0.5 million and cash used to acquire property, plant and equipment of $0.6 million.
The Company’s backlog increased 30% from year-end to $33.3 million at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2020.
Contractual Obligations, Commitments and Contingencies  

There have been no material changes to our contractual obligations as disclosed in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2019, other than those which occur in the ordinary course of business.
Critical Accounting Policies, Commitments and Certain Other Matters  

The preparation of our condensed consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, and disclosure of commitments and contingencies at the date of the condensed consolidated financial statements and reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period.
We base these estimates and judgments on factors we believe to be relevant, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
The process of determining significant estimates is fact-specific and takes into account factors such as historical experience, current and expected economic conditions, product mix, and in some cases, actuarial and appraisal techniques.
We constantly re-evaluate these significant factors and make adjustments where facts and circumstances dictate.
While we believe that the factors considered provide a meaningful basis for the accounting policies applied in the preparation of the condensed consolidated financial statements, we cannot guarantee that our estimates and assumptions will be accurate.
As the determination of these estimates requires the exercise of judgment, actual results may differ from those estimates, and such differences may be material to our condensed consolidated financial statements.
Except for the changes resulting from the adoption of the new lease accounting standard during the period, there have been no material changes to the application of critical accounting policies as disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2019.
See Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policy Update, in Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q, for an update on our lease accounting policy.
Table of Contents 

Forward-Looking Statements  

This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q may contain “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements are not statements of historical fact, but rather reflect our current expectations concerning future events and results.
We generally use the words “believes,” “expects,” “intends,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “likely,” “continues,” “may,” “will,” and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements.
Such forward-looking statements, including those concerning our expectations, involve risks, uncertainties and other factors, some of which are beyond our control, which may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.
Factors which could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated include, but are not limited to (a) general economic, financial and business conditions; (b) declining demand in the test and measurement markets, especially defense and aerospace; (c) competition in the specialty printer industry; (d) ability to develop market acceptance of our products and effective design of customer required features; (e) competition in the data acquisition industry; (f) the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on the results of operations; (g) the ability to successfully integrate acquisitions and realize benefits from divestitures; (h) the business abilities and judgment of personnel and changes in business strategy; (i) the efficacy of research and development investments to develop new products; (j) the launching of significant new products which could result in unanticipated expenses; (k) bankruptcy or other financial problems at major suppliers or customers that could cause disruptions in the Company’s supply chain or difficulty in collecting amounts owed by such customers; (l) any technology disruption or delay in implementing new technology; (m) a material security breach or cybersecurity attack impacting our business and our relationship with customers and (n) other risks included under “Item 1A-Risk Factors” in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2019.
We assume no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds  



 (a)  

Executives of the Company delivered 3,549 shares of the Company’s common stock toward the satisfaction of taxes due with respect to vesting of restricted shares.
The shares delivered were valued at an average market value of $19.52 per share and are included with treasury stock in the consolidated balance sheet.
These transactions did not impact the number of shares authorized for repurchase under the Company’s current repurchase program.
The shares delivered were valued at an average market value of $19.84 per share and are included with treasury stock in the consolidated balance sheet.
This transaction did not impact the number of shares authorized for repurchase under the Company’s current repurchase program.
Item 6.
Exhibits  




Table of Contents 

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
