Item 4.
Controls and Procedures  

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures  

Our management has evaluated, under the supervision and with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this report pursuant to Rule 13a-15(b) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act).
Based on that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer have concluded that, as of the end of the period covered by this report, our disclosure controls and procedures are effective in ensuring that information required to be disclosed in our Exchange Act reports is (1) recorded, processed, summarized and reported in a timely manner, and (2) accumulated and communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting  

There have been no changes in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during our most recent fiscal quarter that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to have materially affected, our internal control over financial reporting.
Table of Contents 

PART II.
Legal Proceedings  

There are no pending or threatened legal proceedings against the Company believed to be material to the financial position or results of operations of the Company.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors  


There have been no material updates to the risk factors previously disclosed in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2019.
Item 5.
Other Information  

The Company is providing the following information in this Item 5 in lieu of disclosing the information under Items 1.01 and 2.03 of a Current Report on Form 8-K with a due date on or after the date hereof.
On December 9, 2019, the Company, ANI ApS, TrojanLabel ApS and the Lender entered into the Fourth Amendment to the Credit Agreement.
The Fourth Amendment amends the Credit Agreement to, among other things, (i) increase the aggregate amount available for borrowings under the revolving line of credit prior to November 1, 2020 from $10.0 million to $17.5 million and (ii) modify the financial covenants with which the Company must comply thereunder by excluding certain capital expenditures from the calculation of the Company’s consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio, providing that the minimum consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio covenant will be suspended through the second quarter of fiscal 2021, and adding a minimum consolidated EBITDA covenant commencing with the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020 and continuing through the second quarter of fiscal 2021.
The description of the Fourth Amendment is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Fourth Amendment, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Table of Contents 

 Item 6.
Exhibits  

 3A   Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Company and all amendments thereto, filed as Exhibit 3A to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended April 30, 2016 and incorporated by reference herein.
10.1   Fourth Amendment to Credit Agreement, dated as of December 9, 2019, by and among AstroNova, Inc. ANI ApS, Trojan Label ApS and Bank of America, N.A.
31.1   Certification of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002  

 31.2   Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002  

 32.1   Certification of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002  

 32.2   Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002  



Table of Contents 

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
