item1.txt
Certain prior year amounts in the condensed consolidated balance sheet have been reclassified to conform to the current year's presentation due to the adoption of Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606).
Billings in excess of costs and estimated earnings, customer deposits, and deferred revenue are combined to present contract liabilities.
Costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings now represent contract assets.
These reclassifications had no effect on reported net income, comprehensive income, cash flows, total assets or total liabilities.
In October 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued ASU 2016-16, Income Taxes (Topic 740) Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other than Inventory, which is intended to improve the accounting for the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory.
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606).
ASU 2014-09 and related guidance supersedes revenue recognition requirements under FASB Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Topic 605 and related industry specific revenue recognition guidance.
This new standard defines a comprehensive revenue recognition model, requiring a company to recognize revenue from the transfer of goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that the entity expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services.
It defines a five-step process to achieve this core principle and allows companies to use more judgment and make more estimates than under current guidance and requires additional disclosures about the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from the customer contracts.
We have adopted ASU 2014-09 and its related guidance under the modified retrospective method during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 by applying the guidance to all open contracts at the adoption date.
We have completed our evaluation of our revenue arrangements under the new standard and have assessed that the adoption did not materially change the timing or amount of revenue recognized, primarily based upon our assessment of "point in time" and "over time" revenue recognition.
No adjustment to beginning retained earnings was recorded, and we have made additional disclosures related to revenue from contracts with customers as required by the new standard upon adoption.
The amendment requires an entity to perform its annual or interim goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount.
ASU 2017-04 is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019 and will require adoption on a prospective basis.
We are currently evaluating the effect that adopting ASU 2017-04 will have on our condensed consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.


item2.txt
We design, manufacture and sell a wide range of display systems to customers throughout the world.
We focus our sales and marketing efforts on markets, geographical regions and products.
The four domestic business units consist of Commercial, Live Events, High School Park and Recreation, and Transportation, all of which include the geographic territories of the United States and Canada.
Our net sales and profitability historically have fluctuated due to the impact of uniquely configured orders, such as display systems for professional sports facilities, colleges and universities, and spectacular projects in the commercial area, as well as the seasonality of the sports market.
Uniquely configured orders can include several displays, controllers, and subcontracted structure builds, each of which can occur on varied schedules per the customer's needs.
Our remaining performance obligations ("backlog") consist of contractually binding sales agreements or purchase orders for integrated electronic display systems and related products and excludes extended service agreements and service only orders.
Our success is contingent on the depth and quality of our products, including related control systems, the depth of our service offerings and our technology serving these market demands.
These qualities are important for our long-term success because our products have finite lifetimes, and we strive to win replacement business from existing customers.
•National accounts standard display market opportunities due to customers' desire to communicate their message, advertising and content consistently across the country.
•Increasing interest in spectaculars, which include very large and sometimes highly customized displays as part of entertainment venues such as casinos, shopping centers, cruise ships and Times Square type locations.
This is dependent on there being no adverse changes in the digital billboard regulatory environment restricting future deployments of billboards, as well as maintaining our current market share of the business concentrated in a few large OOH companies.
•The use of more sophisticated displays in school athletic facilities, such as large integrated video systems.


item3.txt
Our results of operations could be affected by factors such as changes in foreign currency rates or weak economic conditions in foreign markets.


item4.txt
We carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our “disclosure controls and procedures,” as that term is defined in Rule 13a-15(e) and Rule 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as of July 28, 2018, which is the end of the period covered by this Report.


part2.txt
A list of exhibits required to be filed as part of this report is set forth in the Index of Exhibits, which immediately precedes such exhibits, and is incorporated herein by reference.


