item1.txt
Certain prior year amounts in the condensed consolidated balance sheet have been reclassified to conform to the current year's presentation due to the adoption of Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606).
Billings in excess of costs and estimated earnings, customer deposits, and deferred revenue are combined to present contract liabilities.
Costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings now represent contract assets.
These reclassifications had no effect on reported net income, comprehensive income, cash flows, total assets or total liabilities.
In October 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued ASU 2016-16, Income Taxes (Topic 740) Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other than Inventory, which is intended to improve the accounting for the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory.
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606).
ASU 2014-09 and related guidance supersedes revenue recognition requirements under FASB Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Topic 605 and related industry specific revenue recognition guidance.
This new standard defines a comprehensive revenue recognition model, requiring a company to recognize revenue from the transfer of goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that the entity expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services.
It defines a five-step process to achieve this core principle and allows companies to use more judgment and make more estimates than under current guidance and requires additional disclosures about the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from customer contracts.
We adopted ASU 2014-09 and its related guidance under the modified retrospective method during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 by applying the guidance to all open contracts at the adoption date.
We completed our evaluation of our revenue arrangements under the new standard and determined that the adoption did not materially change the timing or amount of revenue recognized, primarily based upon our assessment of "point in time" and "over time" revenue recognition.
No adjustment to beginning retained earnings was recorded, and we have made additional disclosures related to revenue from contracts with customers as required by the new standard upon adoption.
The amendment requires an entity to perform its annual or interim goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount.
ASU 2017-04 is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019 and will require adoption on a prospective basis.


item2.txt
The four domestic business units consist of Commercial, Live Events, High School Park and Recreation, and Transportation, all of which include the geographic territories of the United States and Canada.
Our net sales and profitability historically have fluctuated due to the impact of uniquely configured orders, such as display systems for professional sports facilities, colleges and universities, and spectacular projects in the commercial area, as well as the seasonality of the sports market.
Uniquely configured orders can include several displays, controllers, and subcontracted structure builds, each of which can occur on varied schedules per the customer's needs.
Our remaining performance obligations ("backlog") consist of contractually binding sales agreements or purchase orders for integrated electronic display systems and related products and exclude extended service agreements and service only orders.
Our success is contingent on the depth and quality of our products, including related control systems, the depth of our service offerings and our technology serving these market demands.
The cost to manufacture and the selling prices of our products have decreased over time and are expected to continue to decrease in the future.
As a result, each year we must sell more product to generate the same or greater level of net sales as in previous fiscal years.
Orders for the three months ended October 27, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago remained relatively flat.
Orders increased for the three months ended October 27, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago due to overall strong market demand and an increase in projects for larger video systems.
Orders for the three months ended October 27, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago increased primarily due to variability caused by large order timing and continued demand for intelligent transportation systems.
Orders decreased for the three months ended October 27, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to the variability of timing caused by large projects.
The product order backlog as of October 27, 2018 was $150 million as compared to $155 million as of October 28, 2017 and $177 million at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Historically, our product order backlog varies due to the seasonality of our business, the timing of large projects, and customer delivery schedules for these orders.
The product order backlog as of October 27, 2018 increased from October 28, 2017 in our Commercial, High School Park and Recreation, and Transportation business units and decreased in our Live Events and International business units.


item4.txt
We carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our “disclosure controls and procedures,” as that term is defined in Rule 13a-15(e) and Rule 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as of October 27, 2018, which is the end of the period covered by this Report.


part2.txt



