item1.txt
Investments in affiliates over which we do not have the ability to exert significant influence over the affiliate's operating and financing activities are accounted for under the cost method of accounting.
The aggregate amount of investments accounted for under the equity method was $3,303 and $2,678 at January 27, 2018 and April 29, 2017, respectively.
The equity method requires us to report our share of losses up to our equity investment amount.
Cash paid for investments in affiliates is included in the Purchases of equity investment line item in our consolidated statements of cash flows.
Our proportional share of the respective affiliate’s earnings or losses is included in the Other (expense) income, net line item in our consolidated statements of operations.
For the nine months ended January 27, 2018, our share of the losses of our affiliates was $401.
In August 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230) Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments, which reduces the diversity in practice in how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows.
We early adopted ASU 2016-15 during the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
Adoption of ASU 2016-15 did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
In November 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-18, Restricted Cash, which requires that the statements of cash flows explain the change during the period in the total of cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash.
We early adopted ASU 2016-18 during the second quarter of fiscal 2018 and applied its provisions retrospectively.
Other than the change in presentation within the statements of cash flows, the adoption of ASU 2016-18 did not have an impact on our consolidated financial statements.


item2.txt
We measure our success through estimated market share based on estimated market demand for digital displays and generating profits over the long-term.
Our success is contingent on the depth and quality of our products, including related control systems, the depth of our service offerings and our technology serving these market demands.
These qualities are important for our long-term success because our products have finite lifetimes, and we strive to win replacement business from existing customers.
•National accounts standard display market opportunities due to customers' desire to communicate their message, advertising and content consistently across the country.
•Increasing interest in spectaculars, which include very large and sometimes highly customized displays as part of entertainment venues such as casinos, shopping centers, cruise ships and Times Square type locations.
This is dependent on there being no adverse changes in the digital billboard regulatory environment restricting future deployments of billboards, as well as maintaining our current market share of the business concentrated in a few large OOH companies.
•The use of more sophisticated displays in school athletic facilities, such as large integrated video systems.
The decrease in orders for the three months ended January 27, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago was the net result of decreases in the billboard niche and decreases in the on-premise niche due to a number of factors, including competitive market pricing, a delay of national account-based opportunities, and the natural volatility of large project timing.
Orders decreased for the three months ended January 27, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago due to variability in order timing.
Orders decreased for the three months ended January 27, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago due to fewer video project orders which have larger average selling prices in this segment during the period.
Orders for the three months ended January 27, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago decreased primarily due to variability caused by large order timing.
Orders increased for the three months ended January 27, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to the volatility of large order timing.
The product order backlog as of January 27, 2018 was $151 million as compared to $170 million as of January 28, 2017 and $155 million at the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
Historically, our backlog varies due to the seasonality of our business, the timing of large projects, and customer delivery schedules for these orders.


item3.txt
Through January 27, 2018, most of our net sales were denominated in U.S. dollars, and our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate changes on net sales had not been significant.


item4.txt
We carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our “disclosure controls and procedures,” as that term is defined in Rule 13a-15(e) and Rule 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as of January 27, 2018, which is the end of the period covered by this Report.


part2.txt
A list of exhibits required to be filed as part of this report is set forth in the Index of Exhibits, which immediately precedes such exhibits, and is incorporated herein by reference.


