item1.txt
In October 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued ASU 2016-16, Income Taxes (Topic 740) Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other than Inventory, which is intended to improve the accounting for the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory.
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606).
ASU 2014-09 and related guidance supersedes revenue recognition requirements under FASB Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Topic 605 and related industry specific revenue recognition guidance.
This new standard defines a comprehensive revenue recognition model, requiring a company to recognize revenue from the transfer of goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that the entity expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services.
In addition, it requires additional disclosures about the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from customer contracts and provides guidance on transition requirements.
We adopted ASU 2014-09 and its related guidance under the modified retrospective method during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 by applying the guidance to all open contracts at the adoption date.
We completed an evaluation of our revenue arrangements under the new standard and determined that the adoption did not materially change the timing or amount of revenue recognized, primarily based upon our assessment of "point in time" and "over time" revenue recognition.
No adjustment to beginning retained earnings was recorded and we have made additional disclosures related to revenue from contracts with customers as required by the new standard upon adoption.
The amendment requires an entity to perform its annual or interim goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount.
ASU 2017-04 is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019 and will require adoption on a prospective basis.
We are currently evaluating the effect that adopting ASU 2017-04 will have on our condensed consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments, which provides guidance regarding the measurement and recognition of credit impairment for certain financial assets.
ASU 2016-13 is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019, with early adoption permitted, and will require adoption on a modified retrospective basis.
We are currently evaluating the effect that adopting ASU 2016-13 will have on our condensed consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.


item2.txt
Our net sales and profitability historically have fluctuated due to the impact of uniquely configured orders, such as display systems for professional sports facilities, colleges and universities, and spectacular projects in the commercial area, as well as the seasonality of the sports market.
Our third fiscal quarter tends to be a slower quarter because it includes two holidays, it is affected by sports seasonality, and generally less outdoor construction work occurs due to weather conditions.
Our success is contingent on the depth and quality of our products, including related control systems, the depth of our service offerings and our technology serving these market demands.
•Increased demand for video systems in high schools as school districts realize the revenue generating potential of these displays compared to traditional scoreboards.
The cost to manufacture and the selling prices of our products have decreased over time and are expected to continue to decrease in the future.
As a result, each year we must sell more product to generate the same or greater level of net sales as in previous fiscal years.
The increase in orders for the three months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was the net result of volatility in order timing of large custom projects in the spectacular niche and increased demand in the on-premise and OOH niches.
Orders increased for the three months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago due to the increased number of projects in professional sports and college and university venues.
Orders increased for the three months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago due to overall strong market demand and an increase in projects for larger video systems.
Orders for the three months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago decreased primarily due to variability caused by large order timing.
Orders decreased for the three months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to the variability of timing caused by large projects.
The product order backlog as of January 26, 2019 was $168 million as compared to $151 million as of January 27, 2018 and $150 million at the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2019.
Historically, our product order backlog varies due to the seasonality of our business, the timing of large projects, and customer delivery schedules for these orders.
The product order backlog as of January 26, 2019 increased from January 27, 2018 in our Commercial, Live Events, High School Park and Recreation, and Transportation business units and decreased in our International business unit.


item4.txt
We carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our “disclosure controls and procedures,” as that term is defined in Rule 13a-15(e) and Rule 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as of January 26, 2019, which is the end of the period covered by this Report.


part2.txt



