item1.txt
Daktronics, Inc. operates on a 52- or 53-week fiscal year, with our fiscal year ending on the Saturday closest to April 30 of each year.
The fiscal year ended April 27, 2019 consisted of 52 weeks.
Fiscal 2020 will be a 53-week year; therefore, the quarter ended August 3, 2019 contains operating results for 14 weeks while the quarter ended July 28, 2018 contains operating results for 13 weeks.
There have been no material changes to our significant accounting policies and estimates as described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 27, 2019, other than described in the Accounting Standards Adopted section below.
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), which sets out the principles for the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases for both parties to a contract (that is, lessees and lessors).
ASU 2016-02 requires lessees to apply a dual approach, classifying leases as either finance or operating leases based on the principle of whether or not the lease is effectively a financed purchase of the leased asset by the lessee.
This classification will determine whether the lease expense is recognized based on an effective interest method or on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
A lessee is also required to record a right-of-use asset and a lease liability for all leases with a term greater than 12 months regardless of their classification.
ASU 2016-02 requires lessors to account for leases using an approach that is substantially equivalent to existing guidance for sales-type leases, direct financing leases and operating leases.
In July 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-10, Codification Improvements to Topic 842 (Leases) and ASU 2018-11, Leases (Topic 842), Targeted Improvements, which provide (i) narrow amendments to clarify how to apply certain aspects of the new lease standard, (ii) entities with an additional transition method to adopt the new standard, and (iii) lessors with a practical expedient for separating components of a contract.
We elected the "comparatives under Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 840 option" as a transitional method, which allows us to initially apply the new lease requirements at the effective date.
Comparative periods were not adjusted and will continue to be reported in accordance with prior lease guidance under ASC 840.
In addition, we have elected the short-term lease recognition whereby we will not recognize operating leases related assets or liabilities for leases with a lease term of less than one year.


item2.txt
The four domestic business units consist of Commercial, Live Events, High School Park and Recreation, 
Our net sales and profitability historically have fluctuated due to the impact of uniquely configured orders, such as display systems for professional sports facilities, colleges and universities, and spectacular projects in the commercial area, as well as the seasonality of the sports market.
Uniquely configured orders can include several displays, controllers, and subcontracted structure builds, each of which can occur on varied schedules per the customer's needs.
Our third fiscal quarter tends to be a slower quarter because it includes two holidays, it is affected by sports seasonality, and generally less outdoor construction work occurs due to weather conditions.
We organize into business units to focus on customer loyalty over time to earn new and replacement business because our products have a finite lifetime.
These strategies align us to effectively deliver value to our varied customers and their market needs, while serving our stakeholders over the long-term.
•National accounts standard display market opportunities due to customers' desire to communicate their message, advertising and content consistently across the country.
•Increased demand for video systems in high schools as school districts realize the revenue generating potential of these displays compared to traditional scoreboards and these systems' ability to provide or enhance academic curriculum offerings for students.
•Lower system costs driving the use of more sophisticated displays in school athletic facilities, such as large integrated video systems.
Daktronics, Inc. operates on a 52- or 53-week fiscal year, with our fiscal year ending on the Saturday closest to April 30 of each year.
When April 30 falls on a Wednesday, the fiscal year ends on the preceding Saturday.
Within each fiscal year, each quarter is comprised of 13-week periods following the beginning of each fiscal year.
In each 53-week year, an additional week is added to the first quarter, and each of the last three quarters is comprised of a 13-week period.
The fiscal year ended April 27, 2019 consisted of 52 weeks.
Fiscal 2020 will be a 53-week year; therefore, the quarter ended August 3, 2019 contains operating results for 14 weeks while the quarter ended July 28, 2018 contains operating results for 13 weeks.


item4.txt
We carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our “disclosure controls and procedures,” as that term is defined in Rule 13a-15(e) and Rule 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as of August 3, 2019, which is the end of the period covered by this Report.


part2.txt
A list of exhibits required to be filed as part of this report is set forth in the Index of Exhibits, which immediately precedes such exhibits, and is incorporated herein by reference.


