fls.txt
Furthermore, the inclusion of forward-looking information should not be regarded as a representation by the Company or any other person that future events, plans or expectations contemplated by the Company will be achieved.


item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and footnotes included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2018.
The difference between the weighted average number of basic shares outstanding and the weighted average number of diluted shares outstanding is primarily due to dilutive unvested restricted stock awards and dilutive stock appreciation rights.
As of November 30, 2018, the shares available to be issued under the 2011 Stock Award and Incentive Plan were 11,936,088.
In June 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $350.0 million of the Company’s common stock (the “2018 Share Repurchase Program”).
During the three months ended November 30, 2018, the Company’s five largest customers accounted for approximately 48% of its net revenue and 75 customers accounted for approximately 90% of its net revenue.
Charges, net of insurance proceeds of $2.9 million and $10.3 million, for the three months ended November 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, relate to business interruption and asset impairment costs associated with damage from Hurricane Maria, which impacted our operations in Cayey, Puerto Rico.
Sales to unaffiliated customers are based on the Company’s location that maintains the customer relationship and transacts the external sale.
The estimated fair values of the Company’s publicly traded debt, including the 5.625%, 4.700% and 3.950% Senior Notes, were approximately $410.2 million, $503.7 million and $449.5 million, respectively, as of November 30, 2018.
The estimated fair value of the Company’s private debt, the 4.900% Senior Notes, was approximately $299.0 million, as of November 30, 2018.
The Company regularly sells designated pools of trade accounts receivable under a foreign asset-backed securitization program, a North American asset-back securitization program and nine uncommitted trade accounts receivable sale programs (collectively referred to herein as the “programs”).
The Company continues servicing the receivables sold and in exchange receives a servicing fee under each of the programs.
The Company does not record a servicing asset or liability on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as the Company estimates that the fee it receives to service these receivables approximates the fair market compensation to provide the servicing activities.
The adoption of ASU 2016-15 described in Note 14, New Accounting Guidance, resulted in a reclassification of cash flows from operating activities to investing activities in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for cash receipts related to collections on the deferred purchase price receivable on asset-backed securitization transactions.
In addition, the beneficial interest of $162.2 million and $747.3 million for the three months ended November 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, obtained in exchange for securitized receivables are reported as non-cash investing activities.
The Company continuously sells designated pools of trade accounts receivable under its foreign asset-backed securitization program to a special purpose entity, which in turn sells certain of the receivables to an unaffiliated financial institution and a conduit administered by an unaffiliated financial institution on a monthly basis.
In connection with this amendment, there is no longer a deferred purchase price receivable for the foreign asset-backed securitization program as the entire purchase price is paid in cash when the receivables are sold.
The remaining amount due to the financial institution of $398.7 million was subsequently settled for $25.2 million of cash and $373.5 million of trade accounts receivable sold to the financial institution.
Prior to the amendment, any portion of the purchase price for the receivables not paid in cash upon the sale occurring was recorded as a deferred purchase price receivable, which was paid from available cash as payments on the receivables were collected.


item2.txt
Our manufacturing and supply chain management services and solutions include innovation, design, planning, fabrication and assembly, delivery and managing the flow of resources and products.
We derive substantially all of our revenue from production and product management services (collectively referred to as “manufacturing services”), which encompasses the act of producing tangible products that are built to customer specifications, which are then provided to the customer.
During the three months ended November 30, 2018, the increase in days in accounts receivable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to an increase in accounts receivable primarily driven by the amended and new securitization programs and higher sales and timing of collections.
In connection with the adoption of ASU 2014-09, days in inventory are calculated based on inventory and contract asset balances for the three months ended November 30, 2018.
During the three months ended November 30, 2018, days in inventory increased from the prior sequential quarter to support expected sales levels in the second quarter of fiscal year 2019.
During the three months ended August 31, 2018 and May 31, 2018, the decrease in days in inventory from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to increased sales activity during the quarter.
During the three months ended August 31, 2018, the increase in days in accounts payable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to higher materials purchases during the quarter and the timing of purchases and cash payments for purchases during the quarter.
During the three months ended May 31, 2018, the decrease in days in accounts payable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to the timing of purchases and cash payments for purchases during the quarter.
Effective September 1, 2018, our revenue recognition accounting policies changed in conjunction with the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Effective September 1, 2018, we adopted the new revenue standard under ASC Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, using the modified retrospective method of adoption.


part2.txt
Item 1.


