Item 2.
This Form 10-Q contains certain forward-looking statements including expectations of market conditions, challenges and plans, within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and is subject to the Safe Harbor provisions created by that statute.
Risk Factors”.
The forward-looking statements in this report speak only as of the time they are made, and do not necessarily reflect management’s outlook at any other point in time.
Cohu is a leading supplier of semiconductor test and inspection handlers, micro-electro mechanical system (MEMS) test modules, test contactors and thermal subsystems used by global semiconductor manufacturers and test subcontractors.
We expect that the semiconductor equipment industry will continue to be seasonal in part because consumer electronics, automotive and mobility, the principal end markets for integrated circuits, are highly dynamic industries and demand has traditionally fluctuated with global consumer spending.
During the first nine months of 2018, our net sales increased 4.7% from the corresponding period of 2017.
Cohu’s sales in the third quarter of 2018 decreased 13.6% from the second quarter of 2018 as a result of softening in the broader market for semiconductors primarily those used in mobility applications.
We are continuing our investment in new products and are focused on growing sales in our semiconductor test handling and test contactor businesses and expanding into the semiconductor inspection market.
On October 1, 2018, Cohu completed the acquisition of Xcerra Corporation, and Xcerra became a wholly owned subsidiary of Cohu (the "Merger").
In connection with the Merger, Cohu and certain of its subsidiaries entered into a Credit and Guaranty Agreement with Deutsche Bank AG New York Branch, and other lenders that may from time to time be a party to the Credit and Guaranty Agreement.
Pursuant to the Credit and Guaranty Agreement, the lenders have provided Cohu with a senior secured term loan facility of $350 million to finance a portion of the cash used to complete the acquisition and to pay related costs and expenses.
See Note 8, “Acquisition of Xcerra”, located in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q for further information.
Unless otherwise indicated all amounts presented herein pertain only to Cohu, Inc. and exclude the impact of Xcerra.
the valuation and recognition of share-based compensation, which impacts gross margin, research and development expense, and selling, general and administrative expense.
Below, we discuss these policies further, as well as the estimates and judgments involved.
We also have other policies that we consider key accounting policies; however, these policies typically do not require us to make estimates or judgments that are difficult or subjective.
The deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance if, based upon all available evidence, it is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized.
Establishing, reducing or increasing a valuation allowance in an accounting period generally results in an increase or decrease in tax expense in the statement of operations.
Our gross deferred tax asset balance as of September 29, 2018, was approximately $31.6 million, with a valuation allowance of approximately $25.1 million.
We conduct our annual impairment test as of October 1st of each year, and have determined there was no impairment as of October 1, 2017, as we determined that the estimated fair values of our reporting units exceeded their carrying values on that date.
Other events and changes in circumstances may also require goodwill to be tested for impairment between annual measurement dates.
As of September 29, 2018, we do not believe that circumstances have occurred that indicate impairment of our goodwill is more-likely-than-not.
Long-lived assets, other than goodwill, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets might not be recoverable.
For long-lived assets, impairment losses are only recorded if the asset’s carrying amount is not recoverable through its undiscounted, probability-weighted future cash flows.
We measure the impairment loss based on the difference between the carrying amount and estimated fair value.
Our consolidated net sales decreased 8.0% to $86.2 million in 2018, compared to $93.7 million in 2017.
The decrease in sales in the third quarter of 2018 was primarily a result of a softening in the broader market for semiconductors primarily those used in mobility and IoT (Internet of Things) applications.
Gross margin consists of net sales less cost of sales.
Our gross margin, as a percentage of net sales, was 39.9% in 2018 and 39.4% in 2017.
Gross margin in the third quarter of 2017 included a $0.6 million charge related to the amortization of purchase accounting inventory step-up adjustment recorded in connection with our acquisition of Kita.
No amounts were expensed in 2018 as all inventory step-up amounts were amortized in 2017.
We compute the majority of our excess and obsolete inventory reserve requirements using a one-year inventory usage forecast.
For the three months ended September 29, 2018, we used the estimated effective tax rate (“ETR”) expected to be applicable for the full fiscal year in computing our tax provision.
The ETR on income from continuing operations for the three months ended September 29, 2018 and September 30, 2017, was 32.4% and 17.3%, respectively.
Our ETR for the three months ended September 29, 2018 was impacted by approximately $0.6 million of foreign withholding tax that we accrued in the event we repatriate funds from certain of our foreign subsidiaries.
Other than for foreign currency exchange rate changes and the Kita Acquisition, there was no material change to our unrecognized tax benefits and related accrued interest and penalties during the three-month periods ended September 29, 2018 and September 30, 2017.
As a result of the factors set forth above, our income from continuing operations and net income was $4.8 million in 2018, compared to $8.8 million in 2017.
Our consolidated net sales increased 4.7% to $281.1 million in 2018, compared to $268.6 million in 2017.
Increased sales in the first nine months of 2018 resulted from improved conditions in automotive, industrial and IoT(Internet of Things) semiconductor markets as compared to conditions in the first nine months of 2017, and from capturing new customers for semiconductor test handlers and test contactors, along with growth in sales of semiconductor inspection equipment.
In the first nine months of fiscal 2018 and 2017 we recorded charges to cost of sales of approximately $1.3 million and $0.5 million for excess and obsolete inventory, respectively.
The ETR on income from continuing operations for the nine months ended September 29, 2018 and September 30, 2017, was 21.9% and 14.0%, respectively.
Our ETR for the nine months ended September 29, 2018 was impacted by approximately $0.6 million of foreign withholding tax that we accrued in the event we repatriate funds from certain of our foreign subsidiaries.
Other than foreign currency exchange rate changes and the Kita Acquisition, there was no material change to our unrecognized tax benefits and related accrued interest and penalties during the nine-month periods ended September 29, 2018 and September 30, 2017.
As a result of the factors set forth above, our income from continuing operations and net income was $24.6 million in 2018 as compared to income from continuing operations of $26.2 million in 2017.
Including the impact of the disposal of our discontinued mobile microwave communication equipment business, which included a loss of $0.3 million due to the write-off of the contingent consideration, our net income in the first nine months of 2017 was $25.9 million.
Our primary historical source of liquidity and capital resources has been cash flow generated by our operations and we manage our business to maximize operating cash flows as our primary source of liquidity.
We use cash to fund growth in our operating assets and to fund new products and product enhancements primarily through research and development.
As of September 29, 2018, $40.0 million of our cash and cash equivalents was held by our foreign subsidiaries.
On October 1, 2018, approximately $70.5 million of Cohu’s cash and short term investments were used to fund the Merger with Xcerra.
We have credit agreements with multiple financial institutions in Japan under which they administer lines of credit on behalf of our wholly owned Kita subsidiary.
The credit facilities renew monthly and provide Kita with access to working capital totaling up to $6.2 million.
At September 29, 2018 total borrowings outstanding under the revolving lines of credit were $3.1 million.
As these credit facility agreements renew monthly, they have been included in short-term borrowings in our condensed consolidated balance sheet.
We also have long-term term loans from a series of Japanese financial institutions totaling $4.8 million primarily related to the expansion of Kita’s facility in Osaka, Japan.
The loans carry interest rates ranging from 0.05% to 0.45% and expire at various dates through 2034.
At September 29, 2018, $1.0 million of the term loans have been included in current installments of long-term debt in our condensed consolidated balance sheet.
The revolving lines of credit and term loans are denominated in Japanese Yen and, as a result, amounts will fluctuate as a result of changes in currency exchange rates.
We also have a credit agreement with a financial institution under which it administers a line of credit on behalf of our wholly owned Ismeca subsidiary.
The agreement provides Ismeca with 2.0 million Swiss Francs of available credit and at September 29, 2018, no amounts were outstanding.
We have a secured letter of credit facility (the “Secured Facility”) under which Bank of America, N.A., has agreed to administer the issuance of letters of credit on our behalf.
The Secured Facility requires us to maintain deposits of cash or other approved investments, which serve as collateral, in amounts that approximate our outstanding letters of credit and contains customary restrictive covenants.
As of September 29, 2018, no amounts were outstanding under standby letters of credit under the Secured Facility.
On October 1, 2018, Cohu borrowed the entire amount of the Credit Facility.
The proceeds of the Credit Facility were used, along with cash and cash equivalents on hand of Cohu and Xcerra, to pay the Cash Consideration (as defined below) and to pay certain fees and expenses related to the Merger and the Credit Agreement.
Cohu’s obligations under the Credit Facility are (and will be) guaranteed by certain of its existing and subsequently acquired or formed material wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries, (subject to certain exceptions and exclusions) under the Credit Facility (the “Guarantors”).
The Credit Facility is secured by a security interest in substantially all existing and after-acquired assets and property (subject to certain exceptions and exclusions) of Cohu and the Guarantors.
On October 1, 2018, Cohu borrowed the entire amount of the Credit Facility.
The proceeds of the Credit Facility were used, along with cash and cash equivalents on hand of Cohu and Xcerra, to pay the Cash Consideration and to pay certain fees and expenses related to the Merger and the Credit Agreement.
Subject to certain exceptions and thresholds, the Credit Facility will also require mandatory prepayments in connection with (i) excess cash flow, (ii) non-ordinary course asset sales and other dispositions and (iii) the issuance of certain debt obligations, among other things.
Amounts repaid in respect of loans under the Credit Facility may not be reborrowed.
All outstanding principal and interest in respect of the Credit Facility must be repaid on or before October 1, 2025.
While a payment or bankruptcy event of default exists, Cohu is obligated to pay a per annum default rate of interest of 2.00% in excess of the interest rate otherwise payable with respect to the overdue principal amount of any loans outstanding and overdue interest payments and other overdue fees and amounts.
The Credit Agreement has incremental facility capacity in an aggregate amount of the greater of $145 million and 100% of consolidated EBITDA, with an additional $35 million available for revolving facilities, subject to certain conditions.
Once Cohu’s first lien net leverage ratio is below a certain threshold, incremental facilities may be utilized in an unlimited amount.
The Credit Agreement contains certain customary affirmative and negative covenants, including covenants that limit the ability of Cohu and its subsidiaries to, among other things, grant liens, incur debt, dispose of assets, make loans and investments, make acquisitions, make certain restricted payments, pay dividends, merge or consolidate or change their business, in each case subject to customary exceptions for a credit facility of this size and type.
The Credit Agreement includes customary events of default that include, among other things, non-payment of principal, interest or fees, inaccuracy of representations and warranties, breach of covenants, cross-default to certain material indebtedness, bankruptcy and insolvency and change of control.
Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an event of default, the lenders may declare all outstanding principal and accrued but unpaid interest under the Credit Agreement immediately due and payable and may exercise the other rights and remedies provided under the Credit Agreement and related loan documents.
