Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. 
Investment and Interest Rate Risk. 
At September 29, 2018, our investment portfolio included short-term fixed-income investment securities with a fair value of approximately $0.5 million. These securities are subject to interest rate risk and will likely decline in value if interest rates increase. Our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or we may suffer losses in principal if we are forced to sell securities that decline in market value due to changes in interest rates. As we classify our short-term securities as available-for-sale, no gains or losses are recognized due to changes in interest rates unless such securities are sold prior to maturity or declines in fair value are determined to be other-than-temporary. Due to the relatively short duration of our investment portfolio, an immediate ten percent change in interest rates would have no material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. 
We have operations in several foreign countries and conduct business in the local currency in these countries. As a result, we have risk associated with currency fluctuations as the value of foreign currencies fluctuate against the U.S. dollar, in particular the Swiss Franc, Euro, Malaysian Ringgit, Chinese Yuan, Philippine Peso and Japanese Yen. These fluctuations can impact our reported earnings. 
Based upon the current levels of net foreign assets, a hypothetical 10% devaluation of the U.S. Dollar as compared to these currencies as of September 29, 2018 would result in an approximate $12.3 million positive translation adjustment recorded in other comprehensive income within stockholders’ equity. Conversely, a hypothetical 10% appreciation of the U.S. Dollar as compared to these currencies as of September 29, 2018 would result in an approximate $12.3 million negative translation adjustment recorded in other comprehensive income within stockholders’ equity. 
