Item 2.
This Form 10-Q contains certain forward-looking statements including expectations of market conditions, challenges and plans, within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and is subject to the Safe Harbor provisions created by that statute.
Risk Factors”.
The forward-looking statements in this report speak only as of the time they are made, and do not necessarily reflect management’s outlook at any other point in time.
Cohu is a leading supplier of semiconductor test and inspection handlers, micro-electro mechanical system (MEMS) test modules, test contactors and thermal subsystems, semiconductor automated test equipment and bare-board printed circuit board test systems used by global semiconductor and electronics manufacturers and test subcontractors.
The level of capital expenditures by these companies depends on the current and anticipated market demand for semiconductor devices and PCBs and the products that incorporate them.
As a result, our consumable products provide a more stable recurring source of revenue and generally do not have the same degree of cyclicality as our capital equipment products.
For the six months ended June 29, 2019, our net sales increased 53% year-over-year to $297.8 million.
The increase in our net sales was driven by the acquisition of Xcerra Corporation, completed on October 1, 2018, and our results in the first six months of 2019 included sales of $157.6 million contributed by this acquired business.
Excluding the impact of the additional sales from Xcerra, our net sales decreased year over year.
The global semiconductor market grew in 2018 reaching a peak in the second quarter with business conditions softening during the second half of 2018.
This weakness has continued through the first six months of 2019 and customer test cell utilization remains below levels that have historically triggered the need for additional capacity.
The current near term outlook for the semiconductor industry for 2019 assumes slower electronic equipment demand and slower growth for the global economy.
    ●   the valuation and recognition of share-based compensation, which impacts gross margin, research and development expense, and selling, general and administrative expense.
Below, we discuss these policies further, as well as the estimates and judgments involved.
We also have other policies that we consider key accounting policies; however, these policies typically do not require us to make estimates or judgments that are difficult or subjective.
We conduct our annual impairment test as of October 1st of each year, and have determined there was no impairment as of October 1, 2018, as we determined that the estimated fair values of our reporting units exceeded their carrying values on that date.
Other events and changes in circumstances may also require goodwill to be tested for impairment between annual measurement dates.
As of June 29, 2019, we do not believe that circumstances have occurred that indicate impairment of our goodwill is more-likely-than-not.
Long-lived assets, other than goodwill, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets might not be recoverable.
For long-lived assets, impairment losses are only recorded if the asset’s carrying amount is not recoverable through its undiscounted, probability-weighted future cash flows.
We measure the impairment loss based on the difference between the carrying amount and estimated fair value.
Management has determined that the fixtures services business, that was acquired as part of Xcerra, does not align with Cohu’s long-term strategic plan and management is in the process of divesting this portion of the business.
Unless otherwise indicated, the discussion below covers the comparative results from continuing operations.
Our consolidated net sales increased 50.3% to $150.0 million in 2019, compared to $99.8 million in 2018.
On October 1, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Xcerra and our net sales for the second fiscal quarter of 2019 include $75.1 million of net sales recognized by this business and is the driver of the increase in our net sales.
Gross margin consists of net sales less cost of sales.
Cost of sales consists primarily of the materials, assembly and test labor and overhead from operations.
Our gross margin, as a percentage of net sales, was 41.6% in 2019 and 42.2% in 2018.
As discussed above certain items which have historically affected gross margin are now being reflected in operating expenses.
Previously reported amounts were also adjusted to reflect current period presentation.
This resulted in expenses totaling $7.6 million and $0.6 million being reported in amortization of intangibles rather than cost of sales in 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Independent of the impact of the financial statement reclassifications gross margin in 2019 was impacted by the acquisition of Xcerra as discussed below.
We compute the majority of our excess and obsolete inventory reserve requirements using a one-year inventory usage forecast.
In both the second quarter of 2019 and 2018, we recorded charges to cost of sales of $0.5 million for excess and obsolete inventory.
Additionally, as part of the integration and restructuring activities related to Xcerra we recorded $19.1 million of inventory related charges related to the decision to end manufacturing of certain of Xcerra’s semiconductor test handler products in the fourth quarter of 2018 which included amounts associated with non-cancelable supplier commitments.
During the second quarter of 2019, our gross margin benefitted by $1.3 million comprised of $2.1 million from the reversal of liabilities related to supplier commitments offset, in part, by $0.8 million of additional inventory related charges related to ending the manufacturing of these products.
See Note 2, “Business Acquisitions, Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Assets” in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q for additional information with respect to intangible assets.
Subsequent to the acquisition of Xcerra on October 1, 2018, during fourth quarter 2018, we began a strategic restructuring program designed to reposition our organization and improve our cost structure as part of our targeted integration plan regarding Xcerra and recorded restructuring charges, exclusive of the inventory related amounts described above, totaling $8.5 million in the second fiscal quarter of 2019.
See Note 4, “Restructuring Charges” in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q for additional information with respect to restructuring charges.
Interest expense was $5.3 million in the second fiscal quarter of 2019 as compared to $11,000 in the corresponding period of 2018.
Interest income was $0.2 million and $0.3 million in the second fiscal quarter of 2019 and 2018, respectively.
However, when a reliable estimate of the annual ETR cannot be made, the actual ETR for the year-to-date period may be the best estimate of the annual ETR.
In computing the tax provision for the three months ended June 30, 2018 we used the ETR expected to be applicable for the full fiscal year.
The ETR on income or loss from continuing operations for the three months ended June 29, 2019 and June 30, 2018, was 4.5% and 17.5%, respectively.
As a result of the factors set forth above, both loss from continuing operations and net loss was $19.4 million in 2019.
Both income from continuing operations and net income was $11.6 million in 2018.
Our consolidated net sales increased 52.8% to $297.8 million in 2019, compared to $195.0 million in 2018.
On October 1, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Xcerra and our net sales for the first six months of 2019 include $157.6 million of net sales recognized by this business and is the driver of the increase in our net sales.
Our gross margin, as a percentage of net sales, decreased to 39.2% in 2019 from 42.2% in 2018.
As discussed above certain items which have historically affected gross margin are now being reflected in operating expenses.
Previously reported amounts were also adjusted to reflect current period presentation.
This resulted in expenses totaling $15.3 million and $1.3 million being reported in amortization of intangibles rather than cost of sales in 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Independent of the impact of the financial statement reclassifications gross margin in 2019 was impacted by the acquisition of Xcerra as discussed below.
Our cost of sales was impacted by the amortization of inventory step-up related to fair value adjustments to inventory acquired in business combinations.
During the first six months of 2019, we amortized $6.0 million of inventory step-up related to our acquisition of Xcerra.
There was no inventory step-up amortized in the corresponding period of 2018.
In the first six months of fiscal 2019 and 2018 we recorded charges to cost of sales of approximately $0.8 million and $0.6 million for excess and obsolete inventory, respectively.
Additionally, as part of the integration and restructuring activities related to Xcerra we recorded $19.1 million of inventory related charges related to the decision to end manufacturing of certain of Xcerra’s semiconductor test handler products in the fourth quarter of 2018 which included amounts associated with non-cancelable supplier commitments.
During the second quarter of 2019, our gross margin benefitted by $0.8 million comprised of $2.1 million from the reversal of liabilities related to supplier commitments offset, in part, by $1.3 million of additional inventory related charges related to ending the manufacturing of these products.
The ETR on income or loss from continuing operations for the six months ended June 29, 2019 and June 30, 2018, was 2.6% and 18.9%, respectively.
There was no material change to our unrecognized tax benefits and related accrued interest and penalties during the six-month periods ended June 29, 2019 and June 30, 2018.
As a result of the factors set forth above, our loss from continuing operations and net loss was $42.2 million and $42.0 million in 2019, respectively, as compared to income from continuing operations and net income of $19.8 million in 2018.
Our primary business is dependent on capital expenditures by semiconductor manufacturers and test subcontractors that are, in turn, dependent on the current and anticipated market demand for semiconductors.
Our primary historical source of liquidity and capital resources has been cash flow generated by our operations and we manage our businesses to maximize operating cash flows as our primary source of liquidity.
We use cash to fund growth in our operating assets and to fund new products and product enhancements primarily through research and development.
As of June 29, 2019, $77.5 million or 54% of our cash and cash equivalents was held by our foreign subsidiaries.
On October 1, 2018, we entered into a bank credit agreement which provides for a $350.0 million seven-year Term B Loan facility and borrowed the full amount.
These proceeds were used on October 1, 2018, together with our cash and cash equivalents, to finance the acquisition of Xcerra.
At June 29, 2019, our total indebtedness, net of discount and deferred financing costs, was $348.5 million, which included $339.4 million outstanding under the Term B Loan, $4.2 million outstanding under Kita’s term loans, $3.2 million outstanding under Kita’s lines of credit, and $1.7 million outstanding under Xcerra’s term loan.
In addition to the bank credit agreement which provides for a $350.0 million seven-year Term B Loan facility as described above, we have access to other credit facilities to finance our operations if needed.
As a result of our acquisition of Xcerra, we assumed a term loan related to the purchase of Xcerra’s facility in Rosenheim, Germany.
Principal plus accrued interest is due quarterly over the duration of the term loan.
At June 29, 2019, the outstanding loan balance was $1.7 million and $0.3 million of the outstanding balance is presented as current installments of long-term debt in our condensed consolidated balance sheets.
The term loan is denominated in Euros and, as a result, amounts disclosed herein will fluctuate because of changes in currency exchange rates.
In connection with the acquisition of Kita on January 4, 2017, we assumed a series of revolving credit agreements with various financial institutions in Japan.
The credit facilities renew monthly and provide Kita with access to working capital totaling up to $6.5 million.
As these credit facility agreements renew monthly, they have been included in short-term borrowings in our condensed consolidated balance sheet.
We also have long-term term loans from a series of Japanese financial institutions totaling $4.2 million primarily related to the expansion of Kita’s facility in Osaka, Japan.
The loans carry interest rates ranging from 0.05% to 0.45% and expire at various dates through 2034.
At June 29, 2019, $0.5 million of the term loans have been included in current installments of long-term debt in our condensed consolidated balance sheet.
The revolving lines of credit and term loans are denominated in Japanese Yen and, as a result, amounts will fluctuate as a result of changes in currency exchange rates.
We also have a credit agreement with a financial institution under which it administers a line of credit on behalf of our wholly owned Ismeca subsidiary.
The agreement provides Ismeca with 2.0 million Swiss Francs of available credit and at June 29, 2019, no amounts were outstanding.
We have a letter of credit facility (the “LC Facility”) under which Bank of America, N.A., has agreed to administer the issuance of letters of credit on our behalf.
The LC Facility requires us to maintain deposits of cash or other approved investments in amounts that approximate our outstanding letters of credit and contains customary restrictive covenants.
In addition, our wholly owned subsidiary, Xcerra, has arrangements with various financial institutions for the issuance of letters of credit and bank guarantees.
As of June 29, 2019, $1.7 million was outstanding under standby letters of credit and bank guarantees.
We expect that we will continue to make capital expenditures to support our business and we anticipate that present working capital will be sufficient to meet our operating requirements for at least the next twelve months.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
