Item 2.
This Form 10-Q contains certain forward-looking statements including expectations of market conditions, challenges and plans, within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and is subject to the Safe Harbor provisions created by that statute.
Risk Factors”.
The forward-looking statements in this report speak only as of the time they are made, and do not necessarily reflect management’s outlook at any other point in time.
Cohu is a leading supplier of semiconductor test and inspection handlers, micro-electro mechanical system (MEMS) test modules, test contactors and thermal subsystems, semiconductor automated test equipment and bare-board printed circuit board test systems used by global semiconductor and electronics manufacturers and test subcontractors.
The level of capital expenditures by these companies depends on the current and anticipated market demand for semiconductor devices and PCBs and the products that incorporate them.
As a result, our consumable products provide a more stable recurring source of revenue and generally do not have the same degree of cyclicality as our capital equipment products.
For the three months ended March 30, 2019, our net sales increased 55.3% year-over-year to $147.8 million.
The increase in our net sales was driven by the acquisition of Xcerra Corporation, completed on October 1, 2018, and our results in the first quarter included sales of $82.5 million contributed by this acquired business.
The global semiconductor market grew in 2018 reaching a peak in the second quarter with business conditions softening during the second half of 2018.
This weakness has continued into the first quarter of 2019 and customer test cell utilization remains below levels that have historically triggered the need for additional capacity.
Current market weakness is being driven by lower smartphone unit shipments, weaker automotive semiconductor demand, and ongoing softness in the China market that is in part related to trade tensions between the U.S. and China.
The current near term outlook for the semiconductor industry for 2019 assumes slower electronic equipment demand and slower growth for the global economy.
The methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on the results we report in our financial statements.
the valuation and recognition of share-based compensation, which impacts gross margin, research and development expense, and selling, general and administrative expense.
Below, we discuss these policies further, as well as the estimates and judgments involved.
We also have other policies that we consider key accounting policies; however, these policies typically do not require us to make estimates or judgments that are difficult or subjective.
We conduct our annual impairment test as of October 1st of each year, and have determined there was no impairment as of October 1, 2018, as we determined that the estimated fair values of our reporting units exceeded their carrying values on that date.
Other events and changes in circumstances may also require goodwill to be tested for impairment between annual measurement dates.
As of March 30, 2019, we do not believe that circumstances have occurred that indicate impairment of our goodwill is more-likely-than-not.
Long-lived assets, other than goodwill, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets might not be recoverable.
Conditions that would necessitate an impairment assessment include a significant decline in the observable market value of an asset, a significant change in the extent or manner in which an asset is used, or any other significant adverse change that would indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or group of assets may not be recoverable.
For long-lived assets, impairment losses are only recorded if the asset’s carrying amount is not recoverable through its undiscounted, probability-weighted future cash flows.
We measure the impairment loss based on the difference between the carrying amount and estimated fair value.
Management has determined that the fixtures services business, that was acquired as part of Xcerra, does not align with Cohu’s long-term strategic plan and management is in the process of divesting this portion of the business.
Unless otherwise indicated, the discussion below covers the comparative results from continuing operations.
    (1)   In conjunction with the acquisition of Xcerra we assessed the need to realign our financial statement presentation and certain income statement classifications were adjusted with prior periods reclassified to conform with current period presentation.
Our consolidated net sales increased 55.3% to $147.8 million in 2019, compared to net sales of $95.2 million in 2018.
On October 1, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Xcerra and our net sales for the first three months of 2019 include $82.5 million of net sales recognized by this business and is the driver of the increase in our net sales.
Gross margin consists of net sales less cost of sales.
Our gross margin, as a percentage of net sales, was 36.8% in 2019 and 42.3% in 2018.
As discussed above certain items which have historically affected gross margin are now being reflected in operating expenses.
Previously reported amounts were also adjusted to reflect current period presentation.
This resulted in expenses totaling $7.6 million and $0.7 million being reported in amortization of intangibles rather than cost of sales in 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Independent of the impact of the financial statement reclassifications gross margin in 2019 was impacted by the acquisition of Xcerra as discussed below.
Our cost of sales was impacted by the amortization of inventory step-up related to fair value adjustments to inventory acquired in business combinations.
During the first three months of 2019, we amortized $6.0 million of inventory step-up related to our acquisition of Xcerra.
There was no inventory step-up amortized in the first three months of 2018.
We compute the majority of our excess and obsolete inventory reserve requirements using a one-year inventory usage forecast.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2019 and 2018, we recorded charges to cost of sales of approximately $0.3 million and $0.7 million for excess and obsolete inventory, respectively.
Additionally, as part of the integration and restructuring activities related to Xcerra we recorded $0.5 million of inventory related charges related to the decision to end manufacturing of certain of Xcerra’s semiconductor test handler products.
See Note 2, “Business Acquisitions, Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Assets” in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q for additional information with respect to intangible assets.
Subsequent to the acquisition of Xcerra on October 1, 2018, during fourth quarter 2018, we began a strategic restructuring program designed to reposition our organization and improve our cost structure as part of our targeted integration plan regarding Xcerra and recorded restructuring charges, exclusive of the $0.5 million of inventory related charges described above, totaling $1.4 million in the first three months of 2019.
See Note 4, “Restructuring Charges” in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q for additional information with respect to restructuring charges.
Interest expense was $5.5 million in the first three months of 2019 as compared to $11,000 in the corresponding period of 2018.
Interest income was $0.2 million in the first three months of both 2019 and 2018.
However, when a reliable estimate of the annual ETR cannot be made, the actual ETR for the year-to-date period may be the best estimate of the annual ETR.
In computing the tax provision for the three months ended March 31, 2018 we used the ETR expected to be applicable for the full fiscal year.
The ETR on income or loss from continuing operations for the three months ended March 30, 2019 and March 31, 2018 was 0.9% and 20.8%, respectively.
Other than for foreign currency exchange rate changes, there was no material change to our unrecognized tax benefits and related accrued interest and penalties during the three-month periods ended March 30, 2019 and March 31, 2018.
In 2018, income from continuing operations and net income was $8.1 million during the three months ended March 31, 2018.
Our primary historical source of liquidity and capital resources has been cash flow generated by our operations and we manage our businesses to maximize operating cash flows as our primary source of liquidity.
We use cash to fund growth in our operating assets and to fund new products and product enhancements primarily through research and development.
As of March 30, 2019, $91.4 million or 57% of our cash and cash equivalents was held by our foreign subsidiaries.
On October 1, 2018, we entered into a bank credit agreement which provides for a $350.0 million seven-year Term B Loan facility and borrowed the full amount.
These proceeds were used on October 1, 2018, together with our cash and cash equivalents, to finance the acquisition of Xcerra.
At March 30, 2019, our total indebtedness, net of discount and deferred financing costs, was $349.2 million, which included $340.0 million outstanding under the Term B Loan, $4.3 million outstanding under Kita’s term loans, $3.2 million outstanding under Kita’s lines of credit, and $1.7 million outstanding under Xcerra’s term loan.
In addition to the bank credit agreement which provides for a $350.0 million seven-year Term B Loan facility as described above, we have access to other credit facilities to finance our operations if needed.
As a result of our acquisition of Xcerra, we assumed a term loan related to the purchase of Xcerra’s facility in Rosenheim, Germany.
Principal plus accrued interest is due quarterly over the duration of the term loan.
At March 30, 2019, the outstanding loan balance was $1.7 million and $0.3 million of the outstanding balance is presented as current installments of long-term debt in our consolidated balance sheets.
The term loan is denominated in Euros and, as a result, amounts disclosed herein will fluctuate because of changes in currency exchange rates.
In connection with the acquisition of Kita on January 4, 2017, we assumed a series of revolving credit agreements with various financial institutions in Japan.
The credit facilities renew monthly and provide Kita with access to working capital totaling up to $6.3 million.
At March 30, 2019, total borrowings outstanding under the revolving lines of credit were $3.2 million.
As these credit facility agreements renew monthly, they have been included in short-term borrowings in our condensed consolidated balance sheet.
We also have long-term term loans from a series of Japanese financial institutions totaling $4.3 million primarily related to the expansion of Kita’s facility in Osaka, Japan.
The loans carry interest rates ranging from 0.05% to 0.45% and expire at various dates through 2034.
At March 30, 2019, $0.7 million of the term loans have been included in current installments of long-term debt in our condensed consolidated balance sheet.
The revolving lines of credit and term loans are denominated in Japanese Yen and, as a result, amounts will fluctuate as a result of changes in currency exchange rates.
We also have a credit agreement with a financial institution under which it administers a line of credit on behalf of our wholly owned Ismeca subsidiary.
The agreement provides Ismeca with 2.0 million Swiss Francs of available credit and at March 30, 2019, no amounts were outstanding.
We have a letter of credit facility (the “LC Facility”) under which Bank of America, N.A., has agreed to administer the issuance of letters of credit on our behalf.
The LC Facility requires us to maintain deposits of cash or other approved investments in amounts that approximate our outstanding letters of credit and contains customary restrictive covenants.
In addition, our wholly owned subsidiary, Xcerra, has arrangements with various financial institutions for the issuance of letters of credit and bank guarantees.
As of March 30, 2019, $0.9 million was outstanding under standby letters of credit and bank guarantees.
We expect that we will continue to make capital expenditures to support our business and we anticipate that present working capital will be sufficient to meet our operating requirements for at least the next twelve months.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
