It should be noted that any system of controls, however well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the system are met.
In addition, the design of any control system is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events.
Because of these and other inherent limitations of control systems, there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions, regardless of how remote.
Risk Factors.
On May 8, 2018, we announced that we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger Agreement”), dated as of May 7, 2018, by and among Cohu, Xavier Acquisition Corporation, a Delaware corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cohu (“Merger Sub”) and Xcerra Corporation, a Massachusetts corporation (“Xcerra”).
Under the terms of the Merger Agreement, the acquisition of Xcerra will be accomplished through a merger of Merger Sub with and into Xcerra (the “Merger”), with Xcerra surviving the Merger as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cohu.
We currently anticipate that we will close the Merger in early fourth quarter 2018, but we cannot be certain when or if the conditions for the Merger will be satisfied or waived.
We intend to hold a special meeting of our stockholders on August 30, 2018, to seek stockholder approval for the issuance of additional shares of Cohu common stock as consideration in the Merger.
The Merger cannot be completed until the conditions are satisfied or waived, including receipt of our stockholders’ approval of the issuance of additional shares of Cohu common stock as consideration in the Merger, receipt of Xcerra’s stockholders’ approval of the Merger, and other customary closing conditions.
While the regulatory and antitrust approvals have been achieved, satisfying the other conditions to the closing of the Merger may take longer than we expect.
Any delay in completing the Merger could result in the failure to realize cost synergies projected to result from the Merger and other benefits that Cohu expects to achieve if we successfully complete the Merger within the expected timeframe and integrate the businesses.
Xcerra and members of the Xcerra Board are presently, and Cohu, Merger Sub and members of the Cohu Board may in the future be parties, among others, to various claims and litigation related to the Merger, including putative stockholder class actions.
Xcerra is reviewing the complaint and has not yet formally responded to it, but believes that the plaintiffs’ allegations are without merit and intends to defend against them vigorously.
However, litigation is inherently uncertain and there can be no assurance regarding the likelihood that Xcerra’s defense of the actions will be successful.
Additional complaints containing substantially similar allegations may be filed in the future.
Cohu could be required to pay a termination fee of $22.8 million to Xcerra under certain circumstances, and Cohu could be required to pay the Financing Termination Fee of $45.0 million if the failure to complete the Merger related to a failure by Cohu to obtain financing;
The occurrence of any of these events, individually or in combination, could have a material adverse effect on Cohu’s results of operations or the trading price of Cohu Common Stock.
Whether or not we complete the Merger, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant transaction costs in connection with the Merger, including payment of certain fees and expenses incurred in connection with the Merger and related financing transactions.
Additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration process.
These could adversely affect our results of operations in the period in which such expenses are recorded or our cash flow in the period in which any related costs are actually paid.
Furthermore, we expect to incur material restructuring and integration charges in connection with the Merger, which may adversely affect our operating results following the closing of the Merger in which such expenses are recorded or our cash flow in the period in which any related costs are actually paid.
A delay in closing or a failure to complete the Merger could have a negative impact on our business.
Cohu incurred $4.1 million of acquisition related costs for the Xcerra transaction in the first sixth months of 2018.
Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the Merger will depend, to a large extent, on our ability to integrate Xcerra, which is a complex, costly and time-consuming process.
The integration process may disrupt our business and, if implemented ineffectively, could restrict the realization of the full expected benefits.
In addition, even if Xcerra is integrated successfully, the full anticipated benefits of the Merger may not be realized, including the synergies, cost savings or sales or growth opportunities that are anticipated.
These benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame, or at all.
Further, additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration process.
As a result, it cannot be assured that the Merger will result in the realization of the full or any anticipated benefits.
otherwise seek to change the terms on which they do business with either company, as applicable.
While Cohu is attempting to address these risks through proactive communications with its existing and prospective customers, suppliers or joint development partners, such parties may be reluctant to continue to do business with Cohu or Xcerra, as applicable, due to the potential uncertainty about, among other things, product offerings and the support and service following the consummation of the Merger.
The Merger will be financed in part by the issuance of additional shares of our common stock to shareholders of Xcerra, comprising approximately 29% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock, based on the number of issued and outstanding shares of our common stock on July 16, 2018 and Xcerra’s estimated fully diluted shares of common stock outstanding on July 16, 2018.
These issuances of additional shares of our common stock will dilute shareholders' ownership interest in our company, and shareholders will have a proportionately reduced ownership and voting interest in our company following the completion of the Merger.
If the Merger is completed, the composition of the Cohu Board will change.
There can be no assurance that the newly constituted Cohu Board will function effectively as a team and that there will not be any adverse effect on the combined company’s business as a result.
Following completion of the Merger, we may not be able to maintain the growth rate, levels of revenue, earnings, or operating efficiency that we and Xcerra have achieved or might achieve separately.
However, Cohu cannot give any assurance that the Merger will be accretive to Cohu’s earnings per share.
In addition to the uncertainties that underlie any financial forecast, Cohu will account for the Merger as an acquisition under Accounting Standards Codification Topic 805, “Business Combinations,” or “ASC 805”.
The total cost of the Merger will be allocated to the underlying identifiable net tangible and intangible assets and liabilities based on their respective estimated fair values.
Until the acquisition price and other factors are known, Cohu can only estimate the allocation of the acquisition price to the net assets acquired and the effect of the allocation on future results.
That estimate could materially change.
As of June 30, 2018, Cohu had approximately $127.0 million of cash and cash equivalents, approximately $23.9 million of short-term investments, and approximately $8.4 million of total debt outstanding.
The use of cash on hand and indebtedness to finance the acquisition will reduce Cohu’s liquidity and could cause Cohu to place more reliance on cash generated from operations to pay principal and interest on Cohu’s debt, thereby reducing the availability of Cohu’s cash flow for working capital, dividend and capital expenditure needs or to pursue other potential strategic plans.
Cohu expects that the agreements it will enter into with respect to the Debt Financing will contain certain negative covenants, including limitations on Cohu’s ability to incur additional liens and indebtedness or to pay dividends and make certain investments.
Cohu’s ability to comply with these negative covenants may be affected by events beyond its control.
The indebtedness and these negative covenants will also have the effect, among other things, of limiting Cohu’s ability to obtain additional financing, if needed, limiting its flexibility in the conduct of its business and making Cohu more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse competitive and industry conditions.
In addition, a breach of the negative covenants could result in an event of default with respect to the indebtedness, which, if not cured or waived, could result in the indebtedness becoming immediately due and payable and could have a material adverse effect on Cohu’s business, financial condition or operating results.
Cohu’s ability to meet its expense and debt service obligations contained in the agreements Cohu expects to enter into with respect to the Debt Financing will depend on Cohu’s future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors, including potential changes in industry conditions, industry supply and demand balance, customer preferences, the success of Cohu’s products and pressure from competitors.
In addition, Cohu is subject to interest rate risks, and continuing increases in interest rates will increase Cohu’s debt service obligations.
Should Cohu’s revenues decline after the Merger, Cohu may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to pay its debt service obligations when due.
If Cohu is unable to meet its debt service obligations after the Merger or should Cohu fail to comply with the covenants contained in the agreements governing its indebtedness, Cohu may be required to refinance all or part of its debt, sell important strategic assets at unfavorable prices, incur additional indebtedness or issue Cohu Common Stock or other equity securities.
Cohu may not be able to, at any given time, refinance its debt, sell assets, incur additional indebtedness or issue equity securities on terms acceptable to Cohu, in amounts sufficient to meet Cohu’s needs or at all.
If Cohu is able to raise additional funds through the issuance of equity securities, such issuance would also result in dilution to Cohu’s stockholders.
Cohu’s inability to service its debt obligations or refinance its debt could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial conditions or operating results after the Merger.
In addition, Cohu’s debt obligations may limit its ability to make required investments in capacity, technology or other areas of its business, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial conditions or operating results.
the amount of dividends that Cohu’s subsidiaries may distribute to Cohu may be subject to restrictions imposed by state or foreign law, restrictions that may be imposed by state or foreign regulators, and restrictions imposed by the terms of any current or future indebtedness that these subsidiaries may incur.
We may decide to finance future acquisitions and investments through a combination of borrowings, proceeds from equity or debt offerings and the use of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments.
If we finance acquisitions by issuing convertible debt or equity securities, our existing stockholders may be diluted which could affect the market price of our stock.
At June 30, 2018, we had goodwill and net purchased intangible assets balances of $64.8 million and $14.5 million, respectively.
Given the highly competitive and rapidly evolving technology environment in which we operate, we believe it is important to develop new product offerings to meet strategic opportunities as they evolve.
This includes developing products that we believe are necessary to meet the future needs of the marketplace.
We are currently investing in new product development programs to enable us to compete in the test contactor and wafer level package (WLP) probe and inspection markets, which includes a significant ongoing investment in our PANTHER platform.
There can be no assurance that any new products we develop will be accepted in the marketplace or generate material revenues for us.
We are exposed to the risks of operating a global business.
Our reliance on overseas manufacturers exposes us to significant risks including complex management, foreign currency, legal, tax and economic risks, which we may not be able to address quickly and adequately.
In addition, it is time consuming and costly to qualify overseas supplier relationships.
Also, the addition of overseas manufacturing locations increases the demands on our administrative and operations infrastructure and the complexity of our supply chain management.
If our overseas manufacturing locations are unable to meet our manufacturing requirements in a timely manner, our ability to ship products and to realize the related revenues when anticipated could be materially affected.
Failure of critical suppliers to deliver sufficient quantities of parts in a timely and cost-effective manner could adversely impact our operations.
We use numerous vendors to supply parts, components and subassemblies for the manufacture of our products.
It is not always possible to maintain multiple qualified suppliers for all of our parts, components and subassemblies.
As a result, certain key parts may be available only from a single supplier (“sole source”) or a limited number of suppliers.
On occasion, we have experienced problems in obtaining adequate and reliable quantities of various parts and components from certain key or sole source suppliers.
The semiconductor industry we serve is seasonal, volatile and unpredictable.
Visibility into our markets is limited.
The semiconductor equipment business is highly dependent on the overall strength of the semiconductor industry.
Historically, the semiconductor industry has been seasonal with recurring periods of oversupply and excess capacity, which often have had a significant effect on the semiconductor industry’s demand for capital equipment, including equipment of the type we manufacture and market.
We anticipate that the markets for newer generations of semiconductors and semiconductor equipment will also be subject to similar cycles and severe downturns.
In addition, the seasonal, volatile and unpredictable nature of semiconductor equipment demand has in the past and may in the future expose us to significant excess and obsolete and lower of cost or net realizable value inventory write-offs and reserve requirements.
In 2017, 2016 and 2015, we recorded pre-tax inventory-related charges of approximately $1.1 million, $1.1 million, and $2.4 million, respectively, primarily because of changes in customer forecasts.
Our business requires capital to finance accounts receivable and product inventory that is not financed by trade creditors when our business is expanding.
If cash from available sources is insufficient or cash is used for unanticipated needs, we may require additional capital sooner than anticipated.
We believe that our existing sources of liquidity, including cash resources and cash provided by operating activities will provide sufficient resources to meet our working capital and cash requirements for at least the next twelve months.
We could also be limited by financial and other restrictive covenants in credit arrangements, including limitations on our borrowing of additional funds and issuing dividends.
If we choose to issue new equity securities, existing stockholders may experience dilution, or the new equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing holders of common stock.
The semiconductor equipment industry is intensely competitive.
The semiconductor test handler industry is intensely competitive and we face substantial competition from numerous companies throughout the world.
The test handler industry, while relatively small in terms of worldwide market size compared to other segments of the semiconductor equipment industry, has several participants resulting in intense competitive pricing pressures.
Future competition may include companies that do not currently supply test handlers.
Some of our competitors are part of larger corporations that have substantially greater financial, engineering, manufacturing and customer support capabilities and provide more extensive product offerings.
In addition, with the acquisition of Kita in 2017, we increased our investments in our test contactor business, and announced significant growth targets for the business over the next several years.
The test contactor market is fragmented, with many entrenched regional players, and subject to intense price competition and high customer support requirements.
We believe that customer support and responsiveness and an ability to consistently meet tight deadlines is critical to our success.
The design, development, commercial introduction and manufacture of new semiconductor equipment is an inherently complex process that involves a number of risks and uncertainties.
The design and development of new semiconductor equipment is heavily influenced by changes in integrated circuit assembly, test and final manufacturing processes and integrated circuit package design changes.
As a result of these changes and other factors, assessing the market potential and commercial viability of handling, MEMS, system-level and burn-in test equipment and test contactors is extremely difficult and subject to a great deal of risk.
In addition, not all integrated circuit manufacturers employ the same manufacturing processes.
Differences in such processes make it difficult to design standard test products that can achieve broad market acceptance.
As a result, we might not accurately assess the semiconductor industry’s future equipment requirements and fail to design and develop products that meet such requirements and achieve market acceptance.
The transition from product development to the manufacture of new semiconductor equipment is a difficult process and delays in product introductions and problems in manufacturing such equipment are common.
We have in the past and may in the future experience difficulties in manufacturing and volume production of our new equipment.
In addition, as is common with semiconductor equipment, after sale support and warranty costs have typically been significantly higher with new products than with our established products.
Furthermore, we might not realize acceptable profit margins on such products.
Continued uncertainties may reduce future sales of our products and services.
While we believe we have a strong customer base and have experienced strong collections in the past, if the current market conditions deteriorate, we may experience increased collection times and greater write-offs, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow.
In addition, the tightening of credit markets and concerns regarding the availability of credit may make it more difficult for our customers to raise capital, whether debt or equity, to finance their purchases of capital equipment, including the products we sell.
Possible import, export, tariff and other trade barriers, which could be imposed by Asia, the United States, other countries or the European Union might also have a material adverse effect on our operating results.
We cannot predict the timing, duration of or effect on our business of an economic slowdown or the timing or strength of a subsequent recovery.
A limited number of customers account for a substantial percentage of our net sales.
A small number of customers have been responsible for a significant portion of our net sales.
During the past five years, the percentage of our sales derived from these significant customers has varied greatly.
It is common in the semiconductor test handler industry for customers to purchase equipment from more than one equipment supplier, increasing the risk that our competitive position with a specific customer may deteriorate.
No assurance can be given that we will continue to maintain our competitive position with these or other significant customers.
Furthermore, we expect the percentage of our revenues derived from significant customers will vary greatly in future periods.
If we cannot continue to develop, manufacture and market products and services that meet customer requirements for innovation and quality, our revenue and gross margin may suffer.
In addition, in the course of conducting our business, we must adequately address quality issues associated with our products and services, including defects in our engineering, design and manufacturing processes, as well as defects in third-party components included in our products.
To address quality issues, we work extensively with our customers and suppliers and engage in product testing to determine the cause of quality problems and appropriate solutions.
Finding solutions to quality issues can be expensive and may result in additional warranty, replacement and other costs, adversely affecting our profits.
The seasonal nature of the semiconductor equipment industry places enormous demands on our employees, operations and infrastructure.
The semiconductor equipment industry is characterized by dramatic and sometimes rapid changes in demand for its products.
These are generally dictated by introduction of new consumer products, launch of new model vehicles, implementation of new communications infrastructure, or in response to an increase in industrial equipment and machinery that utilizes semiconductors.
Sudden changes in demand for semiconductor equipment commonly occur, and have a significant impact on our operations.
We have in the past and may in the future experience difficulties, particularly in manufacturing, in training and recruiting the large number of additions to our workforce.
The volatility in headcount and business levels, combined with the seasonal nature of the semiconductor industry, may require that we invest substantial amounts in new operational and financial systems, procedures and controls.
We may not be able to successfully adjust our systems, facilities and production capacity to meet our customers’ changing requirements.
The loss of key personnel could adversely impact our business.
Certain key personnel are critical to our business.
Our future operating results also depend in significant part upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management, manufacturing, technical, engineering, marketing, sales and support personnel.
Competition for qualified personnel, particularly those with technical skills, is intense, and we cannot ensure success in attracting or retaining qualified personnel.
In addition, the cost of living in the San Diego, California, Kolbermoor, Germany, La Chaux-de-Fonds, Switzerland and Osaka, Japan areas, where the majority of our engineering personnel are located, is high and we have had difficulty in recruiting prospective employees from other locations.
There may be only a limited number of persons with the requisite skills and relevant industry experience to serve in these positions and it may become increasingly difficult for us to hire personnel over time.
In addition, from time-to-time, we receive notices from third parties regarding patent or copyright claims.
A majority of our revenues are generated from exports to foreign countries, primarily in Asia, that are subject to economic and political instability and we compete against a number of Asian test handling equipment suppliers.
The majority of our export sales are made to destinations in Asia.
Political or economic instability, particularly in Asia, may adversely impact the demand for capital equipment, including equipment of the type we manufacture and market.
In addition, we face intense competition from a number of Asian suppliers that have certain advantages over United States (“U.S.”) suppliers, including us.
These advantages include, among other things, proximity to customers, lower cost structures, favorable tariffs and affiliation with significantly larger organizations.
Compliance with regulations may impact sales to foreign customers and impose costs.
Certain products and services that we offer require compliance with U.S. and other foreign country export and other regulations.
Compliance with complex U.S. and other foreign country laws and regulations that apply to our international sales activities increases our cost of doing business in international jurisdictions and could expose us or our employees to fines and penalties.
These laws and regulations include import and export requirements, the U.S. State Department International Traffic in Arms Regulations (“ITAR”) and U.S. and other foreign country laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials.
Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and damage to our reputation.
Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate our policies, or that our policies will be effective in preventing all potential violations.
In addition to government regulations regarding sale and export, we are subject to other regulations regarding our products.
For example, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted disclosure rules for companies that use conflict minerals in their products, with substantial supply chain verification requirements if the materials come from, or could have come from, the Democratic Republic of the Congo or adjoining countries.
These new rules and verification requirements will impose additional costs on us and on our suppliers, and may limit the sources or increase the cost of materials used in our products.
The change in administration in the United States has resulted and may continue to result in significant changes in, and uncertainty with respect to, legislation, regulation and government policy.
While it is not possible to predict whether and when any such additional changes will occur, changes at the local, state or federal level could impact fuel cell market adoption in the U.S. and the alternative energy technologies sector in the U.S., generally.
Specific legislative and regulatory proposals that could have a material impact on us include, but are not limited to, infrastructure renewal programs; and modifications to international trade policy, such as approvals by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States; increased duties, tariffs or other restrictions; public company reporting requirements; environmental regulation and antitrust enforcement.
Recent public policy changes and new trade tariffs and restrictions between the United States and China may, in our view, create an uncertain business environment.
In particular, if tariffs or restrictions are imposed on our products or the products of our customers, there could be a negative impact on our operations and financial performance.
For example, on June 15, 2018, the Office of the United States Trade Representative (the “USTR”) published a list of products covering 818 separate U.S. tariff lines valued at approximately $34 billion in 2018 trade values, imposing an additional duty of 25% on the listed product lines.
The list generally focuses on products from industrial sectors that contribute to or benefit from the “Made in China 2025” industrial policy, which include industries such as aerospace, information and communications technology, robotics, industrial machinery, new materials, and automobiles.
The USTR also announced a second set of 284 proposed tariff lines, which cover approximately $16 billion worth of imports from China, which will undergo further review in a public notice and comment process, including a public hearing.
In addition, future actions, retaliation or escalations by either the United States or China that affect trade relations may also impact our business, or that of our suppliers or customers, and we cannot provide any assurances as to whether such actions will occur or the form that they may take.
Our business and operations could suffer in the event of security breaches.
Our implementation of enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) systems may adversely affect our business and results of operations or the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting.
We recently implemented a new ERP system within our Switzerland and Malaysia operations, to conform these operations to the same ERP system used within our other principal business locations.
We intend to continue to make investments and upgrades to our global ERP systems to support our business requirements.
ERP implementations are complex and time-consuming projects that involve substantial expenditures on system software and implementation activities.
The occurrence of natural disasters and geopolitical instability caused by terrorist attacks and other threats may adversely impact our operations and sales.
Our Corporate headquarters is located in San Diego, California, our Asian sales and service headquarters is located in Singapore and the majority of our sales are made to destinations in Asia.
In addition, we have manufacturing plants in Malaysia, Philippines and Japan.
These regions are known for being vulnerable to natural disasters and other risks, such as earthquakes, tsunamis, fires and floods, and geopolitical risks, which at times have disrupted the local economies.
For example, a significant earthquake or tsunami could materially affect operating results.
In the event of such disaster, our business would materially suffer.
intangible and deferred tax asset writedowns.
The stock market in general, and the market for shares of high-technology companies in particular, including ours, have experienced extreme price fluctuations, which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of affected companies.
During the three-year period ended June 30, 2018 the price of our common stock has ranged from $26.17 to $9.14.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
