This Form 10-Q contains certain forward-looking statements including expectations of market conditions, challenges and plans, within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and is subject to the Safe Harbor provisions created by that statute.
Risk Factors”.
The forward-looking statements in this report speak only as of the time they are made, and do not necessarily reflect management’s outlook at any other point in time.
Cohu is a leading supplier of semiconductor test and inspection handlers, micro-electro mechanical system (MEMS) test modules, test contactors and thermal subsystems used by global semiconductor manufacturers and test subcontractors.
We expect that the semiconductor equipment industry will continue to be seasonal in part because consumer electronics, automotive and mobility, the principal end markets for integrated circuits, are highly dynamic industries and demand has traditionally fluctuated with global consumer spending.
During the first six months of 2018, our net sales increased 11% from the corresponding period of 2017 driven by improved conditions in mobility, IoT (Internet of Things), automotive and industrial semiconductor markets and capturing new customers for semiconductor test handlers and test contactors, along with growth in sales of semiconductor inspection equipment.
Customer test cell utilization and business conditions remain strong.
We are continuing our investment in new products and are focused on growing sales in our semiconductor test handling and test contactor businesses and expanding into the semiconductor inspection market.
On May 8, 2018, we announced that we entered into the Merger Agreement, dated as of May 7, 2018, by and between Cohu and Xcerra.
At the effective time of the Merger, each share of Xcerra Common Stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Merger will be converted into the right to receive $9.00 in cash, without interest, and .2109 of a validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable share of Cohu Common Stock.
We currently expect the Merger, which remains subject to stockholder approvals, and other customary closing conditions, to close in early fourth quarter 2018.
Refer to Note 9, "Acquisition of Xcerra" herein for further information.
the valuation and recognition of share-based compensation, which impacts gross margin, research and development expense, and selling, general and administrative expense.
Below, we discuss these policies further, as well as the estimates and judgments involved.
We also have other policies that we consider key accounting policies; however, these policies typically do not require us to make estimates or judgments that are difficult or subjective.
The deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance if, based upon all available evidence, it is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized.
Establishing, reducing or increasing a valuation allowance in an accounting period generally results in an increase or decrease in tax expense in the statement of operations.
Our gross deferred tax asset balance as of June 30, 2018, was approximately $27.6 million, with a valuation allowance of approximately $21.7 million.
Our deferred tax assets consist primarily of reserves and accruals that are not yet deductible for tax and tax credit and net operating loss carry-forwards.
We conduct our annual impairment test as of October 1st of each year, and have determined there was no impairment as of October 1, 2017, as we determined that the estimated fair values of our reporting units exceeded their carrying values on that date.
Other events and changes in circumstances may also require goodwill to be tested for impairment between annual measurement dates.
As of June 30, 2018, we do not believe that circumstances have occurred that indicate impairment of our goodwill is more-likely-than-not.
Long-lived assets, other than goodwill, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets might not be recoverable.
Conditions that would necessitate an impairment assessment include a significant decline in the observable market value of an asset, a significant change in the extent or manner in which an asset is used, or any other significant adverse change that would indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or group of assets may not be recoverable.
For long-lived assets, impairment losses are only recorded if the asset’s carrying amount is not recoverable through its undiscounted, probability-weighted future cash flows.
We measure the impairment loss based on the difference between the carrying amount and estimated fair value.
Our consolidated net sales increased 6.3% to $99.8 million in 2018, compared to $93.9 million in 2017.
Gross margin consists of net sales less cost of sales.
Cost of sales consists primarily of the materials, assembly and test labor and overhead from operations.
Our gross margin, as a percentage of net sales, was 41.6% in 2018 and 39.6% in 2017.
As compared to 2017, gross margin in the second quarter of 2018 benefitted from the increase in business volume which enabled us to better leverage our fixed costs as well as favorable product mix.
Gross margin in the second quarter of 2017 included a $0.5 million charge related to the amortization of purchase accounting inventory step-up adjustment recorded in connection with our acquisition of Kita.
No amounts were expensed in 2018 as all inventory step-up amounts were amortized in 2017.
We compute the majority of our excess and obsolete inventory reserve requirements using a one-year inventory usage forecast.
In the second quarter of 2018, we recorded charges to cost of sales of $0.2 million for excess and obsolete inventory.
In the second quarter of 2017, we recorded charges of approximately $0.1 million.
For the three months ended June 30, 2018, we used the estimated effective tax rate (“ETR”) expected to be applicable for the full fiscal year in computing our tax provision.
The ETR on income from continuing operations for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and June 24, 2017, was 17.5% and 9.1%, respectively.
Other than for foreign currency exchange rate changes and the Kita Acquisition, there was no material change to our unrecognized tax benefits and related accrued interest and penalties during the three-month periods ended June 30, 2018 and June 24, 2017.
As a result of the factors set forth above, our income from continuing operations and net income was $11.6 million in 2018, compared to $10.7 million in 2017.
Including the impact of the disposal of our discontinued mobile microwave communication equipment business, our net income was $10.4 million in 2017.
Our consolidated net sales increased 11.4% to $195.0 million in 2018, compared to $175.0 million in 2017.
Increased sales in the first six months of 2018 resulted from improved conditions in mobility, IoT (Internet of Things), automotive and industrial semiconductor markets and capturing new customers for semiconductor test handlers and test contactors, along with growth in sales of semiconductor inspection equipment.
In the first six months of fiscal 2018 and 2017 we recorded charges to cost of sales of approximately $0.6 million and $0.2 million for excess and obsolete inventory, respectively.
The ETR on income from continuing operations for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and June 24, 2017, was 18.9% and 12.2%, respectively.
Other than foreign currency exchange rate changes and the Kita Acquisition, there was no material change to our unrecognized tax benefits and related accrued interest and penalties during the six-month periods ended June 30, 2018 and June 24, 2017.
As a result of the factors set forth above, our income from continuing operations and net income was $19.8 million in 2018 as compared to income from continuing operations of $17.5 million in 2017.
Including the impact of the disposal of our discontinued mobile microwave communication equipment business, which included a loss of $0.3 million due to the write-off of the contingent consideration, our net income in the first six months of 2017 was $17.2 million.
Our primary business is dependent on capital expenditures by semiconductor manufacturers and test subcontractors that are, in turn, dependent on the current and anticipated market demand for semiconductors.
Our primary historical source of liquidity and capital resources has been cash flow generated by our operations and we manage our business to maximize operating cash flows as our primary source of liquidity.
We use cash to fund growth in our operating assets and to fund new products and product enhancements primarily through research and development.
As of June 30, 2018, $91.8 million of our cash and cash equivalents was held by our foreign subsidiaries.
We have credit agreements with multiple financial institutions in Japan under which they administer lines of credit on behalf of our wholly owned Kita subsidiary.
The credit facilities renew monthly and provide Kita with access to working capital totaling up to $6.3 million.
As these credit facility agreements renew monthly, they have been included in short-term borrowings in our condensed consolidated balance sheet.
We also have long-term term loans from a series of Japanese financial institutions totaling $5.3 million primarily related to the expansion of Kita’s facility in Osaka, Japan.
The loans carry interest rates ranging from 0.05% to 0.45% and expire at various dates through 2034.
At June 30, 2018, $1.2 million of the term loans have been included in current installments of long-term debt in our condensed consolidated balance sheet.
The revolving lines of credit and term loans are denominated in Japanese Yen and, as a result, amounts will fluctuate as a result of changes in currency exchange rates.
We also have a credit agreement with a financial institution under which it administers a line of credit on behalf of our wholly owned Ismeca subsidiary.
The agreement provides Ismeca with 2.0 million Swiss Francs of available credit and at June 30, 2018, no amounts were outstanding.
We expect that we will continue to make capital expenditures to support our business and we anticipate that present working capital will be sufficient to meet our operating requirements for at least the next twelve months.
We have a secured letter of credit facility (the “Secured Facility”) under which Bank of America, N.A., has agreed to administer the issuance of letters of credit on our behalf.
The Secured Facility requires us to maintain deposits of cash or other approved investments, which serve as collateral, in amounts that approximate our outstanding letters of credit and contains customary restrictive covenants.
As of June 30, 2018, no amounts were outstanding under standby letters of credit under the Secured Facility.
On May 7, 2018, Cohu entered into a Merger Agreement with Xcerra and Xavier Acquisition Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of Cohu.
Refer to Note 9, “Acquisition of Xcerra,” herein for further information.
Cohu expects to enter into a term loan facility with Deutsche Bank Securities Inc with an aggregate principal amount of $350.0 million, and if cash on hand at Xcerra is not available at the closing of the Merger, a cash bridge facility, with an aggregate principal amount of up to $100.0 million, to finance a portion of the Merger cash consideration and pay related costs and expenses.
