item1.txt
For contracts that do not meet the criteria to measure performance as a right to invoice under the series guidance, we utilize an Estimate at Completion process to measure progress toward completion. We typically estimate progress towards completion based on cost incurred or direct labor incurred. As part of this process, we review information including, but not limited to, any outstanding key contract matters, progress towards completion and the related program schedule, identified risks and opportunities and the related changes in estimates of revenue and costs. The risks and opportunities include judgments about the ability and cost to achieve the contract milestones and other technical contract requirements. We make assumptions and estimates regarding labor productivity and availability, the complexity of the work to be performed, the availability of materials, the length of time to complete the performance obligation, execution by our subcontractors, the availability and timing of funding from our customer and overhead cost rates, among other variables. A significant change in one or more of these estimates could affect the timing in which we recognize revenue on our contracts. For the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, the aggregate impact of adjustments in contract estimates increased our revenue by $5.9 million and $4.5 million, respectively. For the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, the aggregate impact of adjustments in contract estimates increased our revenue by $9.0 million and $8.8 million, respectively. 
Our ROU asset is recognized as the lease liability, any initial indirect costs and any prepaid lease payments, less any lease incentives. Our lease liabilities are recognized based on the present value of the future minimum lease payments over the lease term at commencement date. Our lease payments consist of amounts relating to the use of the underlying asset during the lease term, specifically fixed payments, payment to be made in optional periods when we are reasonably certain to exercise an option to extend the lease or not to exercise an option to terminate the lease and the amounts probable of being owned by us under residual guarantees. Our variable lease payments are excluded in measuring ROU assets and lease liabilities because they do not depend on an index or a rate or are not in substance fixed payments. We exclude lease incentives and initial direct costs incurred from our lease payments. Our leases typically do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at the commencement date in determining the present value of future payments.
Our operating leases are primarily made up of real estate. Our variable lease payments do not depend on an index or a rate or are not in substance fixed payments. Our leases have remaining lease terms of 1 day to 11 years, some of which include options to extend the leases for up to 14 years, and some of which include options to terminate the leases within 1 year. Our transportation vehicles and equipment leases include a residual value guarantee, which is a guarantee made to the lessor that the value of the underlying asset returned to the lessor at the end of the lease will be at least a specific amount. We sublease some of our real estate 
The preliminary purchase price of $38.8 million, which includes an estimated working capital adjustment, was preliminarily allocated to the underlying assets and liabilities based on their estimated fair value at the date of acquisition. As we are still in the process of reviewing the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed and in finalizing the closing working capital adjustment, the purchase price allocation for H2M is not complete as of September 30, 2019. Recognition of goodwill is largely attributed to the value paid for H2M's capabilities to support government agencies in the implementation of high-quality geospatial and professional services. The goodwill recorded for this transaction will be deductible for tax purposes over 15 years. 
In preliminarily allocating the purchase price, we considered, among other factors, analysis of historical performance and estimates of future performance of H2M's contracts. The components of other intangible assets associated with the acquisition were customer relationships and backlog valued at $9.6 million and $2.3 million, respectively. Customer contracts and related relationships represent the underlying relationships and agreements with H2M's existing customers. Customer relationships are amortized using the pattern of benefits method over their estimated useful lives of approximately 20 years. Backlog is amortized using the pattern of benefits method over its estimated useful life of 2 years. The weighted-average amortization period for the intangible assets is 17 years.
Kforce Government Solutions (KGS)—On April 1, 2019, we completed the acquisition of KGS. KGS was a wholly owned subsidiary of the publicly traded commercial technology and staffing company KForce, Inc. The results of KGS's operations have been included in our condensed consolidated financial statements since that date. The acquisition was completed through an equity purchase agreement dated February 28, 2019, by and among Kforce Government Solutions, Inc and other beneficiaries and ManTech International Corporation. We funded the acquisition with cash on hand and borrowings on our revolving credit facility. KGS provides services, IT solutions, transformation and management consulting and data analytics - most notably in the healthcare IT market. This acquisition will expand our presence with important customers such as the Department of Veteran Affairs (VA). 
The purchase price of $114.6 million, which includes the finalized working capital adjustment, was preliminarily allocated to the underlying assets and liabilities based on their estimated fair value at the date of acquisition. As we are still in the process of reviewing the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, the purchase price allocation for KGS is not complete as of September 30, 2019. Recognition of goodwill is largely attributed to the value paid for KGS's capabilities to support customers in IT solutions, transformation and management consulting and data analytics. A majority of the goodwill recorded will not be deductible for tax purposes. 
In preliminarily allocating the purchase price, we considered, among other factors, analysis of historical financial performance and estimates of future performance of KGS's contracts. The components of other intangible assets associated with the acquisition were customer relationships and backlog valued at $33.1 million and $1.6 million, respectively. Customer contracts and related relationships represent the underlying relationships and agreements with KGS's existing customers. Customer relationships are amortized using the pattern of benefits method over their estimated useful lives of approximately 20 years. Backlog is amortized straight-line over its estimated useful life of 1 year. The weighted-average amortization period for the intangible assets is 19 years.
Basic earnings per share has been computed by dividing net income available to common stockholders by the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during each period. Shares issued during the period and shares reacquired during the period are weighted for the portion of the period in which the shares were outstanding. Diluted earnings per share have been computed in a manner consistent with that of basic earnings per share while giving effect to all potentially dilutive common shares that were outstanding during each period.
For the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, options to purchase 7,641 shares and 242,789 shares, respectively, were outstanding but not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the options' effect would have been anti-dilutive. For the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, options to purchase 331,994 shares and 268,013 shares, respectively, were outstanding but not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the options' effect would have been anti-dilutive. For the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, there were 255,376 shares and 387,926 shares, respectively, issued from the exercise of stock options. For the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 there were 76,346 shares and 86,233 shares, respectively, issued from the vesting of restricted stock units.
Depreciation and amortization expense related to property and equipment for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 was $6.9 million and $6.4 million, respectively. Depreciation and amortization expense related to property and equipment for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 was $19.4 million and $19.1 million, respectively.
The terms of the credit agreement permit prepayment and termination of the loan commitments at any time, subject to certain conditions. The credit agreement requires us to comply with specified financial covenants, including the maintenance of certain leverage ratios and a consolidated coverage ratio. The credit agreement also contains various covenants, including affirmative covenants with respect to certain reporting requirements and maintaining certain business activities, and negative covenants that, among other things, may limit or impose restrictions on our ability to incur liens, incur additional indebtedness, make investments, make acquisitions and undertake certain other actions. As of and during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, we were in compliance with the financial covenants under the credit agreement.
Our 2016 Management Incentive Plan (the Plan) was designed to attract, retain and motivate key employees. The types of awards available under the Plan include, among others, stock options, restricted stock and restricted stock units (RSUs). Equity awards granted under the Plan are settled in shares of Class A common stock. At the beginning of each year, the Plan provides that the number of shares available for issuance automatically increases by an amount equal to 1.5% of the total number of shares of Class A and Class B common stock outstanding on December 31st of the previous year. On January 2, 2019, there were 596,422 additional shares made available for issuance under the Plan. Through September 30, 2019, the Board of Directors has authorized the issuance of up to 15,148,321 shares under this Plan. Through September 30, 2019, the remaining aggregate number of shares of our common stock available for future grants under the Plan was 6,727,002. The Plan expires in March 2026.
including stock-based compensation expense, was capitalized during the periods. For the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, we recorded $(0.9) million and $(1.2) million, respectively, to income tax expense (benefit) related to the exercise of stock options, vested cancellations and the vesting of restricted stock and restricted stock units. For the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, we recorded $(1.6) million and $(2.9) million, respectively, to income tax expense (benefit) related to the exercise of stock options, vested cancellations and the vesting of restricted stock and restricted stock units.
Fair Value Determination—We have used the Black-Scholes-Merton option pricing model to determine the fair value of our awards on the date of grant. We will reconsider the use of the Black-Scholes-Merton model if additional information becomes available in the future that indicates another model would be more appropriate or if grants issued in future periods have characteristics that cannot be reasonably estimated under this model.


item2.txt
Approximately 98% of our revenues are generated through contracts with the U.S. federal government. As such, our business is impacted by the overall U.S. government budget and our ability to match our capabilities and offerings to the U.S. government's spending priorities. Through legislation passed in September 2018 and February 2019, all agencies of the U.S. federal government were funded through Government fiscal year (GFY) 2019. In August 2019, Congress passed and the president signed a new two-year budget deal, the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2019. The Act effectively ended the threat of sequestration by increasing spending for GFY 2020 and 2021 above caps previously in place under the Budget Control Act. The GFY 2020 and 2021 budgets include increases for areas supporting national security. Despite the passage of a two year budget, Congress has not yet passed full year appropriations and as of October 1st, began operating under a Continuing Resolution (CR). If Congress is unable to approve appropriations by November 21st, the U.S. Government and its agencies may be subjected to funding restrictions through a CR or, if there is a failure to pass interim funding, a government shutdown. 
The increase in cost of services was primarily due to increases in revenue. As a percentage of revenue, direct labor costs were 46% for both the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018. As a percentage of revenues, other direct costs, which include subcontractors and third party equipment and materials used in the performance of our contracts, were 38% for the three months ended September 30, 2019, compared to 39% for the same period in 2018. 
Our effective tax rate is affected by recurring items, such as the relative amount of income we earn in various taxing jurisdictions and their tax rates. It is also affected by discrete items that may occur in any given year, but are not consistent from year-to-year. Our effective income tax rates were 26% and 24% for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The primary driver of the increase in our effective tax rate was the impact of discrete items recognized in the third quarter of 2018, which were more favorable than discrete items recognized in the third quarter of 2019.
The increase in cost of services was primarily due to increases in revenue. As a percentage of revenue, direct labor costs were 47% and 48% for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. As a percentage of revenues, other direct costs, which include subcontractors and third party equipment and materials used in the performance of our contracts, were 38% for both the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018. 
The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to increased expenditures on support infrastructure improvements, expenditures related to our recent acquisitions and other legal matters. These increases were partially offset by reduced bid and proposal spending, lower amortization on acquired intangibles and the reclassification of certain allocable expenses from general and administrative expenses to cost of services. We expect general and administrative expenses as a percent of revenue to increase slightly during the remainder of 2019 due to increased bid and proposal spending in the last quarter of 2019.
We define funded backlog to be the portion of backlog for which funding currently is appropriated and allocated to the contract by the purchasing agency or otherwise authorized for payment by the customer upon completion of a specific portion of work. Our funded backlog does not include the full value of our contracts because Congress often appropriates funds for a particular program or contract on a yearly or quarterly basis, even though the contract may call for performance over a much longer period of time.
A variety of circumstances or events may cause changes in the amount of our backlog and funded backlog, including the execution of new contracts, the extension of existing contracts, the non-renewal or completion of current contracts, the early termination of contracts and adjustment to estimates for previously included contracts. Changes in the amount of our funded backlog also are affected by the funding cycles of the U.S. government.
Our primary liquidity needs relate to managing working capital, financing acquisitions, making cash dividend payments, purchasing property and equipment and investing in capital software. Our primary sources of liquidity are cash from operating activities and borrowings under our revolving credit facility. On September 30, 2019, our cash and cash equivalents balance was $33.3 million. There were outstanding borrowings of $25.0 million under our revolving credit facility at September 30, 2019. The maximum available borrowings under our revolving credit facility at September 30, 2019 were $467.3 million. As of September 30, 2019, we were contingently liable under letters of credit totaling $7.7 million, which reduces our availability to borrow under our revolving credit facility. 
Our operating cash flow is primarily affected by our ability to invoice and collect from our customers in a timely manner, our management of vendor payments and the overall profitability of our contracts. We bill most of our customers monthly after services are rendered. Our accounts receivable days sales outstanding were 57 and 67 for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. For the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, our net cash from operating activities was $233.0 
To the extent possible, we invest our available cash in short-term, investment grade securities in accordance with our investment policy. Under our investment policy, we manage our investments in accordance with the priorities of maintaining the safety of our principal, maintaining the liquidity of our investments, maximizing the yield on our investments and investing our cash to the fullest extent possible. Our investment policy provides that no investment security can have a final maturity that exceeds six months and that the weighted average maturity of the portfolio cannot exceed 60 days. Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, amounts due from banks and short-term investments with maturity dates of three months or less at the date of purchase.
In the ordinary course of business, we use letters of credit issued to satisfy certain contractual terms with our customers. As of September 30, 2019, $7.7 million in letters of credit were issued but undrawn. We have an outstanding performance bond in connection with a contract between ManTech MENA, LLC and Jadwalean International Operations and Management Company to fulfill technical support requirements for the Royal Saudi Air Force. This performance bond is guaranteed by a letter of credit in the amount of $7.6 million. 
Our ROU asset is recognized as the lease liability, any initial indirect costs and any prepaid lease payments, less any lease incentives. Our lease liabilities are recognized based on the present value of the future minimum lease payments over the lease term at commencement date. Our lease payments consist of amounts relating to the use of the underlying asset during the lease term, specifically fixed payments, payments to be made in optional periods when we are reasonably certain to exercise an option to extend the lease or not to exercise an option to terminate the lease and the amounts probable of being owed by us under residual guarantees. Our variable lease payments are excluded in measuring ROU assets and lease liabilities because they do not depend on an index or a rate or are not in substance fixed payments. We exclude lease incentives and initial direct costs incurred from our lease payments. Our leases typically do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at the commencement date in determining the present value of future payments.


item4.txt
It should be noted that a control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. As a result, our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance that such disclosure controls and procedures will meet their objectives.


part2.txt
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


