item1.txt
On January 1, 2018, we adopted Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers using the modified retrospective method applied to those contracts that were not substantially complete as of January 1, 2018. ASC 606 outlines a five-step model whereby revenue is recognized as performance obligations within the contract are satisfied. ASC 606 also requires new, expanded disclosures regarding revenue recognition. We recognized the cumulative effect of adopting ASC 606 as an increase to the 2018 opening balance of retained earnings in the amount of $0.8 million, with the impact primarily related to fixed-price contracts. 
For contracts that do not meet the criteria to measure performance as a right to invoice, or under the series guidance, we utilize an Estimate at Completion process to measure progress toward completion. We typically estimate progress towards completion based on cost incurred or direct labor incurred. As part of this process, we review information including, but not limited to, any outstanding key contract matters, progress towards completion and the related program schedule, identified risks and opportunities and the related changes in estimates of revenue and costs. The risks and opportunities include judgments about the ability and cost to achieve the contract milestones and other technical contract requirements. We make assumptions and estimates regarding labor productivity and availability, the complexity of the work to be performed, the availability of materials, the length of time to complete the performance obligation, execution by our subcontractors, the availability and timing of funding from our customer and overhead cost rates, among other variables. A significant change in one or more of these estimates could affect the timing in which we recognize revenue on our contracts. For the three months ended March 31, 2019, the aggregate impact of adjustments in contract estimates increased our revenue by $3.2 million. 
The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued ASC 842, Leases, to increase transparency and comparability among organizations by requiring the recognition of right of use (ROU) assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet. Most prominent among the changes in ASC 842 is the recognition of ROU assets and lease liabilities by lessees for those leases classified as operating leases. Under the standard, disclosures are required to meet the objective of enabling users of financial statements to assess the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases. We are also required to recognize and measure leases existing at, or entered into after, the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented using a modified retrospective approach, with certain practical expedients available.
Our ROU asset is recognized as the lease liability, any initial indirect costs and any prepaid lease payments, less any lease incentives. Our lease liabilities are recognized based on the present value of the future minimum lease payments over the lease term at commencement date. Our lease payments consist of amounts relating to the use of the underlying asset during the lease term, specifically fixed payments, payment to be made in optional periods when we are reasonably certain to exercise an option to extend the lease or not to exercise an option to terminate the lease and the amounts probable of being owned by us under residual 
guarantees. Our variable lease payments are excluded in measuring ROU asset and lease liability because they do not depend on an index or a rate or are not in substance fixed payments. We exclude lease incentives and initial direct cost incurred from our lease payments. Our leases typically do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at the commencement date in determining the present value of future payments.
For operating leases, after lease commencement, we measure our lease liability for each period at the present value of any remaining lease payments, discounted by using the rate determined at lease commencement. In our condensed consolidated statement of income, we recognize a single operating lease expense calculated on a straight-line basis over the remaining lease term. The amortization of the ROU asset increases each year as a result of the declining lease liability balance. Variable lease payments are not recognized in the measurement of the lease liability - they are recognized in the period in which the related obligation has been incurred.
For finance leases, after lease commencement, we measure our lease liability by using the effective interest rate method. In each period, the lease liability will be increased to reflect the interest that is accrued on the related lease liability by using the appropriate discount rate, offset by a decrease in the lease liability resulting from the periodic lease payments. We recognize the ROU asset at cost, reduced by any accumulated depreciation. The ROU asset is depreciated on a straight-line basis. Together, the interest expense and amortization expense result in a front-loaded expense profile. We will present interest expense and depreciation expense separately on our condensed consolidated statement of income.
We have operating and finance leases for real estate, transportation vehicles and equipment. Our variable lease payments do not depend on an index or a rate or are not in substance fixed payments. Our leases have remaining lease terms of 0.1 years to 11 years, some of which include options to extend the leases for up to 14 years, and some of which include options to terminate the leases within 1 year. Our transportation vehicles and equipment leases include a residual value guarantee, which is a guarantee made to the lessor that the value of the underlying asset returned to the lessor at the end of the lease will be at least a specific amount. We sublease some of our real estate lease space, resulting in sublease income of $23 thousand as of the three months ended March 31, 2019. We do not have any leases that have not yet commenced due to construction or design of the underlying asset. We recognize payments related to short-term leases (less than one year) as profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the lease term and variable leases payments in the period in which the obligation for those payment is incurred. As such, our short-term lease expense as of March 31, 2019 under ASC 842 was $1.4 million. For the three months ended March 31, 2019, we incurred variable lease costs of $0.5 million. 
Basic earnings per share has been computed by dividing net income available to common stockholders by the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during each period. Shares issued during the period and shares reacquired during the period are weighted for the portion of the period in which the shares were outstanding. Diluted earnings per share have been computed in a manner consistent with that of basic earnings per share while giving effect to all potentially dilutive common shares that were outstanding during each period.
The terms of the credit agreement permit prepayment and termination of the loan commitments at any time, subject to certain conditions. The credit agreement requires us to comply with specified financial covenants, including the maintenance of certain leverage ratios and a certain consolidated coverage ratio. The credit agreement also contains various covenants, including affirmative covenants with respect to certain reporting requirements and maintaining certain business activities, and negative covenants that, among other things, may limit or impose restrictions on our ability to incur liens, incur additional indebtedness, make investments, make acquisitions and undertake certain other actions. As of and during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, we were in compliance with the financial covenants under the credit agreement.
Our 2016 Management Incentive Plan (the Plan) was designed to attract, retain and motivate key employees. The types of awards available under the Plan include, among others, stock options, restricted stock and restricted stock units (RSUs). Equity awards granted under the Plan are settled in shares of Class A common stock. At the beginning of each year, the Plan provides that the number of shares available for issuance automatically increases by an amount equal to 1.5% of the total number of shares of Class A and Class B common stock outstanding on December 31st of the previous year. On January 2, 2019, there were 596,422 additional shares made available for issuance under the Plan. Through March 31, 2019, the Board of Directors has authorized the issuance of up to 15,148,321 shares under this Plan. Through March 31, 2019, the remaining aggregate number of shares of our common stock available for future grants under the Plan was 6,685,056. The Plan expires in March 2026.
Stock Compensation Expense—For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, we recorded $1.3 million and $1.1 million of stock-based compensation expense. No compensation expense of employees with stock awards, including stock-based compensation expense, was capitalized during the periods. For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, we recorded $0.2 million and $1.1 million, respectively, to income tax benefit related to the exercise of stock options, vested cancellations and the vesting of restricted stock.
Stock Options—Under the Plan, we have issued stock options. A stock option gives the holder the right, but not the obligation to purchase a certain number of shares at a predetermined price for a specific period of time. We typically issue options that vest over three years in equal installments beginning on the first anniversary of the date of grant. Under the terms of the Plan, the 
Fair Value Determination—We have used the Black-Scholes-Merton option pricing model to determine the fair value of our awards on the date of grant. We will reconsider the use of the Black-Scholes-Merton model if additional information becomes available in the future that indicates another model would be more appropriate or if grants issued in future periods have characteristics that cannot be reasonably estimated under this model.
Restricted Stock—Under the Plan, we have issued restricted stock. A restricted stock award is an issuance of shares that cannot be sold or transferred by the recipient until the vesting period lapses. Restricted stock issued to members of our Board of Directors vest on the one year anniversary of the grant date. The related compensation expense is recognized over the service period and is based on the grant date fair value of the stock. The grant date fair value of the restricted stock is equal to the closing market price of our common stock on the date of grant.
RSUs—Under the Plan, we have issued RSUs. RSUs are not actual shares, but rather a right to receive shares in the future. The shares are not issued and the employee cannot sell or transfer shares prior to vesting and have no voting rights until the RSUs vest. Employees who are granted RSUs do not receive dividend payments during the vesting period. Our employees have been granted performance-based RSUs and time-based RSUs. Performance-based RSUs result in the delivery of shares only if (a) performance criteria is met and (b) the employee remains employed, in good standing, through the date of the performance period. 


item2.txt
The increase in cost of services was primarily due to increases in revenue. As a percentage of revenue, direct labor costs were 48% for both the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018. As a percentage of revenues, other direct costs, which include subcontractors and third party equipment and materials used in the performance of our contracts, was 38% for the three months ended March 31, 2019, compared to 37% for the same period in 2018. 
The decrease in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to reduced bid and proposal spending and amortization of acquisition intangibles offset by increased spending on infrastructure. We expect general and administrative expenses as a percent of revenue to increase during the remainder of 2019 due to the acquisition of Kforce Government Solutions (KGS) and increased bid and proposal spending.
We define funded backlog to be the portion of backlog for which funding currently is appropriated and allocated to the contract by the purchasing agency or otherwise authorized for payment by the customer upon completion of a specific portion of work. Our funded backlog does not include the full value of our contracts because Congress often appropriates funds for a particular program or contract on a yearly or quarterly basis, even though the contract may call for performance over a much longer period of time.
A variety of circumstances or events may cause changes in the amount of our backlog and funded backlog, including the execution of new contracts, the extension of existing contracts, the non-renewal or completion of current contracts, the early termination of contracts and adjustment to estimates for previously included contracts. Changes in the amount of our funded backlog also are affected by the funding cycles of the U.S. government.
Our primary liquidity needs relate to managing working capital, financing acquisitions, making cash dividend payments, purchasing property and equipment and investing in capital software. Our primary sources of liquidity are cash from operating activities and borrowings under our revolving credit facility. On March 31, 2019, our cash and cash equivalents balance was $120.5 million. There were outstanding borrowings of $96.0 million under our revolving credit facility at March 31, 2019. The maximum available borrowings under our revolving credit facility at March 31, 2019 were $396.3 million. As of March 31, 2019, we were contingently liable under letters of credit totaling $7.7 million, which reduces our availability to borrow under our revolving credit facility. 
Our operating cash flow is primarily affected by our ability to invoice and collect from our customers in a timely manner, our management of vendor payments and the overall profitability of our contracts. We bill most of our customers monthly after services are rendered. Our accounts receivable days sales outstanding were 70 and 69 for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, our net cash from (used in) operating activities was $47.3 million and $(18.0) million, respectively. The increase in net cash flows from operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2019 when compared to the same period in 2018 was primarily due to the timing of receivables collection.
For the three months ended March 31, 2019, our net cash flow from financing activities was $78.1 million, which was primarily due to net borrowings under revolving credit facility and dividend payments. The net increase in borrowings for the three months ended March 31, 2019 is due to funding requirements to acquire Kforce Government Solutions on April 1, 2019. For the three months ended March 31, 2018, our net cash flow from financing activities were $27.9 million, which were primarily due to net borrowings under our revolving credit facility and exercise of stock options partially offset by dividend payments.
our principal, maintaining the liquidity of our investments, maximizing the yield on our investments and investing our cash to the fullest extent possible. Our investment policy provides that no investment security can have a final maturity that exceeds six months and that the weighted average maturity of the portfolio cannot exceed 60 days. Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, amounts due from banks and short-term investments with maturity dates of three months or less at the date of purchase.
In the ordinary course of business, we use letters of credit issued to satisfy certain contractual terms with our customers. As of March 31, 2019, $7.7 million in letters of credit were issued but undrawn. We have an outstanding performance bond in connection with a contract between ManTech MENA, LLC and Jadwalean International Operations and Management Company to fulfill technical support requirements for the Royal Saudi Air Force. This performance bond is guaranteed by a letter of credit in the amount of $14 thousand. 
Our ROU asset is recognized as the lease liability, any initial indirect costs and any prepaid lease payments, less any lease incentives. Our lease liabilities are recognized based on the present value of the future minimum lease payments over the lease term at commencement date. Our lease payments consist of amounts relating to the use of the underlying asset during the lease term, specifically fixed payments, payment to be made in optional periods when we are reasonably certain to exercise an option to extend the lease or not to exercise an option to terminate the lease and the amounts probable of being owned by us under residual guarantees. Our variable lease payments are excluded in measuring ROU asset and lease liability because they do not depend on an index or a rate or are not in substance fixed payments. We exclude lease incentives and initial direct cost incurred from our lease payments. Our leases typically do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at the commencement date in determining the present value of future payments.


item3.txt



item4.txt
It should be noted that a control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. As a result, our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance that such disclosure controls and procedures will meet their objectives.


part2.txt
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


