item1.txt
On January 1, 2018, we adopted Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers using the modified retrospective method applied to those contracts that were not substantially complete as of January 1, 2018. ASC 606 outlines a five-step model whereby revenue is recognized as performance obligations within the contract are satisfied. ASC 606 also requires new, expanded disclosures regarding revenue recognition. We recognized the cumulative effect of adopting ASC 606 as an increase to the 2018 opening balance of retained earnings in the amount of $0.8 million, with the impact primarily related to fixed-price contracts. 
For contracts that do not meet the criteria to measure performance as a right to invoice under the series guidance, we utilize an Estimate at Completion process to measure progress toward completion. We typically estimate progress towards completion based on cost incurred or direct labor incurred. As part of this process, we review information including, but not limited to, any outstanding key contract matters, progress towards completion and the related program schedule, identified risks and opportunities and the related changes in estimates of revenue and costs. The risks and opportunities include judgments about the ability and cost to achieve the contract milestones and other technical contract requirements. We make assumptions and estimates regarding labor productivity and availability, the complexity of the work to be performed, the availability of materials, the length of time to complete the performance obligation, execution by our subcontractors, the availability and timing of funding from our customer and overhead cost rates, among other variables. A significant change in one or more of these estimates could affect the timing in which we recognize revenue on our contracts. For the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, the aggregate impact of adjustments in contract estimates increased our revenue by $3.5 million and $4.3 million, respectively. For the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, the aggregate impact of adjustments in contract estimates increased our revenue by $5.6 million and $5.8 million, respectively. 
For operating leases, after lease commencement, we measure our lease liability for each period at the present value of any remaining lease payments, discounted by using the rate determined at lease commencement. In our condensed consolidated statement of income, we recognize a single operating lease expense calculated on a straight-line basis over the remaining lease term. The depreciation of the ROU asset increases each year as a result of the declining lease liability balance. Variable lease payments are not recognized in the measurement of the lease liability - they are recognized in the period in which the related obligation has been incurred.
We have operating and finance leases for real estate, transportation vehicles and equipment. Our variable lease payments do not depend on an index or a rate or are not in substance fixed payments. Our leases have remaining lease terms of 0.2 years to 11 years, some of which include options to extend the leases for up to 14 years, and some of which include options to terminate the leases within 1 year. Our transportation vehicles and equipment leases include a residual value guarantee, which is a guarantee made to the lessor that the value of the underlying asset returned to the lessor at the end of the lease will be at least a specific amount. We sublease some of our real estate lease space, resulting in sublease income of $6 thousand and $29 thousand as of the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively. We do not have any leases that have not yet commenced due to construction or design of the underlying asset. We recognize payments related to short-term leases (less than one year) as profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the lease term and variable lease payments in the period in which the obligation for those payments were incurred. As such, our short-term lease expense for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 was $1.4 million and $2.8 million, respectively. For the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, we incurred variable lease costs of $0.9 million and $1.4 million, respectively.
Kforce Government Solutions (KGS)—On April 1, 2019, we completed the acquisition of KGS. KGS was a wholly owned subsidiary of the publicly traded commercial technology and staffing company KForce, Inc. The results of KGS's operations have been included in our consolidated financial statements since that date. The acquisition was completed through an equity purchase agreement dated February 28, 2019, by and among Kforce Government Solutions, Inc and other beneficiaries and ManTech International Corporation. We funded the acquisition with cash on hand and borrowings on our revolving credit facility. KGS provides services IT solutions, transformation and management consulting and data analytics - most notably in the healthcare IT market. This acquisition will expand our presence with important customers such as the Department of Veteran Affairs (VA). 
The purchase price of $114.6 million, which includes the finalized working capital adjustment, was preliminarily allocated to the underlying assets and liabilities based on their estimated fair value at the date of acquisition. As we are still in the process of reviewing the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, the purchase price allocation for KGS is not complete as of June 30, 2019. Recognition of goodwill is largely attributed to the value paid for KGS's capabilities to support customers in IT solutions, transformation and management consulting and data analytics. A majority of the goodwill recorded will not be deductible for tax purposes. 
In preliminarily allocating the purchase price, we considered, among other factors, analysis of historical financial performance and estimates of future performance of KGS's contracts. The components of other intangible assets associated with the acquisition were customer relationships and backlog valued at $33.1 million and $1.6 million, respectively. Customer contracts and related relationships represent the underlying relationships and agreements with KGS's existing customers. Customer relationships are amortized using the pattern of benefits method over their estimated useful lives of approximately 20 years. Backlog is amortized straight-line over its estimated useful life of 1 year. The weighted-average amortization period for the intangible assets is 19 years.
Basic earnings per share has been computed by dividing net income available to common stockholders by the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during each period. Shares issued during the period and shares reacquired during the period are weighted for the portion of the period in which the shares were outstanding. Diluted earnings per share have been computed in a manner consistent with that of basic earnings per share while giving effect to all potentially dilutive common shares that were outstanding during each period.
There was $43.5 million and $7.5 million outstanding on our revolving credit facility at June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively. The maximum available borrowing under the revolving credit facility at June 30, 2019 was $448.8 million. As of June 30, 2019, we were contingently liable under letters of credit totaling $7.7 million, which reduces our availability to borrow under our revolving credit facility. 
The Plan is administered by the compensation committee of our Board of Directors, along with its delegates. Subject to the express provisions of the Plan, the committee has the Board of Directors’ authority to administer and interpret the Plan, including the discretion to determine the exercise price, vesting schedule, contractual life and the number of shares to be issued.
Stock Compensation Expense—For the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, we recorded $1.9 million and $1.1 million of stock-based compensation expense. For the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, we recorded $3.2 million and $2.2 million of stock-based compensation expense. No compensation expense of employees with stock awards, including stock-based compensation expense, was capitalized during the periods. For the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, we recorded $(0.5) million and $(0.2) million, respectively, to income tax expense (benefit) related to the exercise of stock options, vested cancellations and the vesting of restricted stock and restricted stock units. For the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, we recorded $(0.7) million and $(1.7) million, respectively, to income tax expense (benefit) related to the exercise of stock options, vested cancellations and the vesting of restricted stock and restricted stock units.
Stock Options—Under the Plan, we have issued stock options. A stock option gives the holder the right, but not the obligation to purchase a certain number of shares at a predetermined price for a specific period of time. We typically issue options that vest over three years in equal installments beginning on the first anniversary of the date of grant. Under the terms of the Plan, the contractual life of the option grants may not exceed eight years. During the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, we issued options that expire five years from the date of grant.
•Risk-free interest rate—The yield on zero-coupon U.S. Treasury strips was used to extrapolate a forward-yield curve. This “term structure” of future interest rates was then input into a numeric model to provide the equivalent risk-free rate to be used in the Black-Scholes-Merton model based on the expected term of the underlying grants.
Stock Option Activity—The weighted-average fair value of options granted during the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, as determined under the Black-Scholes-Merton valuation model, was $10.07 and $9.96, respectively. Option grants that vested during the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 had a combined fair value of $1.2 million and $0.7 million, respectively.
Restricted Stock—Under the Plan, we have issued restricted stock. A restricted stock award is an issuance of shares that cannot be sold or transferred by the recipient until the vesting period lapses. Restricted stock issued to members of our Board of Directors vest on the one year anniversary of the grant date. The related compensation expense is recognized over the service period and is based on the grant date fair value of the stock. The grant date fair value of the restricted stock is equal to the closing market price of our common stock on the date of grant.


item2.txt
We urge you not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement made herein following the date of this Quarterly Report, whether as a result of new information, subsequent events or circumstances, changes in expectations or otherwise.
The increase in cost of services was primarily due to increases in revenue. As a percentage of revenue, direct labor costs were 48% for both the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018. As a percentage of revenues, other direct costs, which include subcontractors and third party equipment and materials used in the performance of our contracts, were 38% for the three months ended June 30, 2019, compared to 37% for the same period in 2018. 
Our effective tax rate is affected by recurring items, such as the relative amount of income we earn in various taxing jurisdictions and their tax rates. It is also affected by discrete items that may occur in any given year, but are not consistent from year-to-year. Our effective income tax rates were 26% and 28% for the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The primary driver of the decrease in our effective tax rate was due to an increased benefit from our deferred compensation plan and stock option exercises as well as increased tax expense for 2018 related to a discrete item recognized in the second quarter of 2018.
The increase in cost of services was primarily due to increases in revenue. As a percentage of revenue, direct labor costs were 48% for both the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018. As a percentage of revenues, other direct costs, which include subcontractors and third party equipment and materials used in the performance of our contracts, were 38% for the six months ended June 30, 2019, compared to 37% for the same period in 2018. 
The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to increased expenditures on support functions, expenditures related to our recent acquisition and other legal matters. These increases were partially offset by reduced bid and proposal spending and the reclassification of certain allocable expenses from general and administrative expenses to cost of services. We expect general and administrative expenses as a percent of revenue to increase during the remainder of 2019 due to increased bid and proposal spending in the second half of 2019.
We define funded backlog to be the portion of backlog for which funding currently is appropriated and allocated to the contract by the purchasing agency or otherwise authorized for payment by the customer upon completion of a specific portion of work. Our funded backlog does not include the full value of our contracts because Congress often appropriates funds for a particular program or contract on a yearly or quarterly basis, even though the contract may call for performance over a much longer period of time.
A variety of circumstances or events may cause changes in the amount of our backlog and funded backlog, including the execution of new contracts, the extension of existing contracts, the non-renewal or completion of current contracts, the early termination of contracts and adjustment to estimates for previously included contracts. Changes in the amount of our funded backlog also are affected by the funding cycles of the U.S. government.
Our primary liquidity needs relate to managing working capital, financing acquisitions, making cash dividend payments, purchasing property and equipment and investing in capital software. Our primary sources of liquidity are cash from operating activities and borrowings under our revolving credit facility. On June 30, 2019, our cash and cash equivalents balance was $5.9 million. There were outstanding borrowings of $43.5 million under our revolving credit facility at June 30, 2019. The maximum available borrowings under our revolving credit facility at June 30, 2019 were $448.8 million. As of June 30, 2019, we were contingently liable under letters of credit totaling $7.7 million, which reduces our availability to borrow under our revolving credit facility. 
Our operating cash flow is primarily affected by our ability to invoice and collect from our customers in a timely manner, our management of vendor payments and the overall profitability of our contracts. We bill most of our customers monthly after services are rendered. Our accounts receivable days sales outstanding were 66 and 68 for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. For the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, our net cash from operating activities was $123.4 million and $35.0 million, respectively. The increase in net cash flows from operating activities during the six months ended June 30, 2019 when compared to the same period in 2018 was primarily due to the timing of receivables collection.
To the extent possible, we invest our available cash in short-term, investment grade securities in accordance with our investment policy. Under our investment policy, we manage our investments in accordance with the priorities of maintaining the safety of our principal, maintaining the liquidity of our investments, maximizing the yield on our investments and investing our cash to the fullest extent possible. Our investment policy provides that no investment security can have a final maturity that exceeds six months and that the weighted average maturity of the portfolio cannot exceed 60 days. Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, amounts due from banks and short-term investments with maturity dates of three months or less at the date of purchase.
In the ordinary course of business, we use letters of credit issued to satisfy certain contractual terms with our customers. As of June 30, 2019, $7.7 million in letters of credit were issued but undrawn. We have an outstanding performance bond in connection with a contract between ManTech MENA, LLC and Jadwalean International Operations and Management Company to fulfill technical support requirements for the Royal Saudi Air Force. This performance bond is guaranteed by a letter of credit in the amount of $7.6 million. 
For finance leases, after lease commencement, we measure our lease liability by using the effective interest rate method. In each period, the lease liability will be increased to reflect the interest that is accrued on the related lease liability by using the appropriate discount rate, offset by a decrease in the lease liability resulting from the periodic lease payments. We recognize the ROU asset at cost, reduced by any accumulated depreciation. The ROU asset is depreciated on a straight-line basis. Together, the interest expense and depreciation expense result in a front-loaded expense profile. We will present interest expense and depreciation expense separately on our condensed consolidated statement of income.


item3.txt



item4.txt
It should be noted that a control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. As a result, our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance that such disclosure controls and procedures will meet their objectives.


part2.txt
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


