fls.txt



item1.txt
We account for a contract when both we and the customer approve and commit; our rights and those of the customer are identified, payment terms are identified; the contract has commercial substance; and collectability of consideration is probable. At contract inception, we identify the distinct goods or services promised in the contract, referred to as performance obligations. Then we determine the transaction price for the contract; the consideration to which we can expect in exchange for the promised goods or services in the contract. The transaction price can be a fixed or variable amount. It is common for our contracts to contain award fees, incentive fees or other provisions that can either increase or decrease the transaction price. These variable amounts generally are awarded upon achievement of certain performance metrics, program milestones or cost targets and can be based upon customer discretion. We estimate variable consideration at the most likely amount to which we expect to be entitled. We include estimated amounts in the transaction price to the extent it is probable that a significant reversal of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is resolved. Our estimates of variable consideration and determination of whether to include estimated amounts in the transaction price are based largely on an assessment of our anticipated performance and historical, current and forecasted information that is reasonably available to us. The transaction price is allocated to each distinct performance obligation using our best estimate of the standalone selling price for each distinct good or service promised in the contract. The primary method used to estimate standalone selling price is the expected cost plus a margin approach, under which we forecast our expected costs of satisfying a performance obligation and then add an appropriate margin for that distinct good or service promised. Revenue is recognized when, or as, the performance obligation is satisfied.
of the performance obligation. Based on the nature of the products and services provided in the contract, we use our judgment to determine if an input measure or output measure best depicts the transfer of control over time. For services contracts, we typically satisfy our performance obligations as services are rendered and use a contract cost-based input method to measure progress. Contract costs include labor, material and allocable indirect expenses. Revenue is recognized proportionally as contract costs are incurred plus estimated fees. For time-and-material contracts, we bill the customer per labor hour and per material, and revenue is recognized in the amount invoiced since the amount corresponds directly to the value of our performance to date. For stand-ready service contracts, a time-elapsed output method is used to measure progress, and revenue is recognized straight-line over the term of the contract. If a contract does not meet the criteria for recognizing revenue over time, we recognize revenue at a point in time. Revenue is recognized at the point in time when control of the good or service is transferred to our customer. We consider control to transfer when we have a present right to payment and our customer has legal title. Determining a measure of progress and when control transfers requires us to make judgments that affect the timing of when revenue is recognized. Essentially all of our contracts satisfy their performance obligations over time.
Results for prior periods were reported in accordance with ASC 605. Revenue for cost-reimbursable contracts were recorded as reimbursable costs were incurred, including an estimated share of the applicable contractual fees earned. For performance-based fees under cost-reimbursable contracts, we recognized the relevant portion of the expected fee to be awarded by the customer at the time such fee can be reasonably estimated, based on factors such as our prior award experience and communications with the customer regarding performance, or upon approval by the customer. For time-and-materials contracts, revenue was recognized to the extent of billable rates times hours delivered plus materials and other reimbursable costs incurred. For long-term fixed-price contracts, revenue was recognized at a rate per unit as the units were delivered or by other methods to measure services provided. Revenue from other long-term fixed-price contracts were recognized ratably over the contract period or by other appropriate methods to measure services provided. Contract costs were expensed as incurred except for certain limited long-term contracts noted below. For long-term contracts, specifically described in the scope section of ASC 605-35, Revenue Recognition - Construction-Type and Production-Type Contracts, we applied the percentage of completion method. Under the percentage of completion method, income was recognized at a consistent profit margin over the period of performance based on estimated profit margins at completion of the contract. This method of accounting required estimating the total revenue and total contract cost at completion of the contract. These estimates were periodically reviewed and revisions were made as required using the cumulative catch-up method. The impact on revenue and contract profit as a result of these revisions were included in the periods in which the revisions were made. Estimated losses on contracts at completion were recognized when identified. In certain circumstances, revenue was recognized when contract amendments were not finalized. 
Contract assets - Amounts are invoiced as work progresses in accordance with agreed-upon contractual terms, either at periodic intervals or upon achievement of contractual milestones. Generally, revenue recognition occurs before billing, resulting in contract assets. These contract assets are referred to as unbilled receivables and are reported within receivables, net on our condensed consolidated balance sheet.
Billed receivables - Amounts billed and due from our customers are classified as billed receivables and are reported within receivables, net on the condensed consolidated balance sheet. The portion of the payments retained by the customer until final contract settlement is not considered a significant financing component because the intent is to protect the customer.
Contract liabilities - We receive advances and milestone payments from our customers on selected contracts that exceed revenue earned to date, resulting in contract liabilities. Contract liabilities typically are not considered a significant financing component because it is used to meet working capital demands that can be higher in the early stages of a contract and to protect us from the customer failing to adequately complete some or all of its obligations under the contract. Contract liabilities are reported on our condensed consolidated balance sheet on a net contract basis at the end of each reporting period.
Receivables at March 31, 2018 are expected to be substantially collected within one year except for approximately $1.5 million, of which 97% is related to receivables from sales to the U.S. government or from contracts in which we acted as a subcontractor to other contractors selling to the U.S. government. We do not believe that we have significant exposure to credit risk as billed receivable and unbilled receivables are primarily due from the U.S. government. The allowance for doubtful accounts represents our estimate for exposure to compliance, contractual issues and bad debts related to prime contractors. 
The preliminary purchase price of $184.0 million, which includes an estimated working capital adjustment, was preliminarily allocated to the underlying assets and liabilities based on their estimated fair value at the date of acquisition. As we are still in the process of reviewing the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed and in finalizing the closing working capital adjustment, the purchase price allocation for InfoZen is not complete as of March 31, 2018. The goodwill recorded related to this transaction will be deductible for tax purposes over 15 years. Recognition of goodwill is largely attributed to the value paid for InfoZen's capabilities to support customers in modernization, agile software development, cloud migration and threat monitoring and assessment capabilities. 
In preliminarily allocating the purchase price, we considered, among other factors, analysis of historical financial performance and estimates of future performance of InfoZen's contracts. The components of other intangible assets associated with the acquisition were customer relationships and backlog valued at $49.2 million and $5.7 million, respectively. Customer contracts and related relationships represent the underlying relationships and agreements with InfoZen's existing customers. Customer relationships are amortized using the pattern of benefits method over their estimated useful lives of approximately 20 years. Backlog is amortized straight-line over its estimated useful life of 1 year. The weighted-average amortization period for the intangible assets is 18 years.
Basic earnings per share has been computed by dividing net income available to common stockholders by the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during each period. Shares issued during the period and shares reacquired during the period are weighted for the portion of the period in which the shares were outstanding. Diluted earnings per share have been computed in a manner consistent with that of basic earnings per share while giving effect to all potentially dilutive common shares that were outstanding during each period.
The terms of the credit agreement permit prepayment and termination of the loan commitments at any time, subject to certain conditions. The credit agreement requires us to comply with specified financial covenants, including the maintenance of certain leverage ratios and a certain consolidated coverage ratio. The credit agreement also contains various covenants, including affirmative covenants with respect to certain reporting requirements and maintaining certain business activities, and negative covenants that, among other things, may limit or impose restrictions on our ability to incur liens, incur additional indebtedness, make investments, make acquisitions and undertake certain other actions. As of and during the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, we were in compliance with the financial covenants under the credit agreement.
There was $65.5 million and $31.0 million outstanding on our revolving credit facility at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. The maximum available borrowing under the revolving credit facility at March 31, 2018 was $419.2 million. As of March 31, 2018, we were contingently liable under letters of credit totaling $15.3 million, which reduces our availability to borrow under our revolving credit facility. 
Our 2016 Management Incentive Plan (the Plan) was designed to attract, retain and motivate key employees. The types of awards available under the Plan include, among others, stock options, restricted stock and restricted stock units (RSUs). Equity awards granted under the Plan are settled in shares of Class A common stock. At the beginning of each year, the Plan provides that the number of shares available for issuance automatically increases by an amount equal to 1.5% of the total number of shares of Class A and Class B common stock outstanding on December 31st of the previous year. On January 2, 2018, there were 588,464 additional shares made available for issuance under the Plan. Through March 31, 2018, the Board of Directors has authorized the issuance of up to 14,551,899 shares under this Plan. Through March 31, 2018, the remaining aggregate number of shares of our common stock available for future grants under the Plan was 6,260,256. The Plan expires in March 2026.
The Plan is administered by the compensation committee of our Board of Directors, along with its delegates. Subject to the express provisions of the Plan, the committee has the Board of Directors’ authority to administer and interpret the Plan, including the discretion to determine the exercise price, vesting schedule, contractual life and the number of shares to be issued.
Stock Compensation Expense—For the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, we recorded $1.1 million and $1.0 million of stock-based compensation expense, respectively. No compensation expense of employees with stock awards, including stock-based compensation expense, was capitalized during the periods. For the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, we recorded $(1.1) million and $0.1 million, respectively, to income tax expense (benefit) related to the exercise of stock options, vested cancellations and the vesting of restricted stock.
Stock Options—Under the Plan, we have issued stock options. A stock option gives the holder the right, but not the obligation to purchase a certain number of shares at a predetermined price for a specific period of time. We typically issue options that vest over three years in equal installments beginning on the first anniversary of the date of grant. Under the terms of the Plan, the contractual life of the option grants may not exceed eight years. During the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, we issued options that expire five years from the date of grant.
Fair Value Determination—We have used the Black-Scholes-Merton option pricing model to determine the fair value of our awards on the date of grant. We will reconsider the use of the Black-Scholes-Merton model if additional information becomes available in the future that indicates another model would be more appropriate or if grants issued in future periods have characteristics that cannot be reasonably estimated under this model.


item2.txt
We define funded backlog to be the portion of backlog for which funding currently is appropriated and allocated to the contract by the purchasing agency or otherwise authorized for payment by the customer upon completion of a specific portion of work. Our funded backlog does not include the full value of our contracts because Congress often appropriates funds for a particular program or contract on a yearly or quarterly basis, even though the contract may call for performance over a much longer period of time.
A variety of circumstances or events may cause changes in the amount of our backlog and funded backlog, including the execution of new contracts, the extension of existing contracts, the non-renewal or completion of current contracts, the early termination of contracts, and adjustment to estimates for previously included contracts. Changes in the amount of our funded backlog also are affected by the funding cycles of the government.
Our primary liquidity needs relate to managing working capital, financing acquisitions, making cash dividend payments, purchasing property and equipment and investing in capital software. Our primary sources of liquidity are cash from operating activities and borrowings under our revolving credit facility. On March 31, 2018, our cash and cash equivalents balance was $10.4 million. There were $65.5 million outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility at March 31, 2018. The maximum available borrowings under our revolving credit facility at March 31, 2018 were $419.2 million. As of March 31, 2018, we were contingently liable under letters of credit totaling $15.3 million, which reduces our availability to borrow under our revolving credit facility. 
Our operating cash flow is primarily affected by our ability to invoice and collect from our customers in a timely manner, our management of vendor payments and the overall profitability of our contracts. We bill most of our customers monthly after services are rendered. Our accounts receivable days sales outstanding were 69 and 68 for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. For the three months ended March 31, 2018, our net cash used in operating activities were $18.0 million. For the three months ended March 31, 2017, our net cash flow from operating activities were $36.5 million. The decrease in net cash flows from (used in) operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2018 when compared to the same period in 2017 was primarily due to the timing of receivables.
To the extent possible, we invest our available cash in short-term, investment grade securities in accordance with our investment policy. Under our investment policy, we manage our investments in accordance with the priorities of maintaining the safety of our principal, maintaining the liquidity of our investments, maximizing the yield on our investments and investing our cash to the fullest extent possible. Our investment policy provides that no investment security can have a final maturity that exceeds six months and that the weighted average maturity of the portfolio cannot exceed 60 days. Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, amounts due from banks and short-term investments with maturity dates of three months or less at the date of purchase.
In the ordinary course of business, we use letters of credit issued to satisfy certain contractual terms with our customers. As of March 31, 2018, $15.3 million in letters of credit were issued but undrawn. We have an outstanding performance bond in connection with a contract between ManTech MENA, LLC and Jadwalean International Operations and Management Company to fulfill technical support requirements for the Royal Saudi Air Force. This performance bond is guaranteed by a letter of credit in the amount of $15.2 million. We have off-balance sheet arrangements related to operating leases. For a description of our operating leases, see our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, previously filed with the SEC.
We account for a contract when both we and the customer approve and commit; our rights and those of the customer are identified, payment terms are identified; the contract has commercial substance; and collectability of consideration is probable. At contract inception, we identify the distinct goods or services promised in the contract, referred to as performance obligations. Then we determine the transaction price for the contract; the consideration to which we can can expect in exchange for the promised goods or services in the contract. The transaction price can be a fixed or variable amount. It is common for our contracts to contain award fees, incentive fees or other provisions that can either increase or decrease the transaction price. These variable amounts generally are awarded upon achievement of certain performance metrics, program milestones or cost targets and can be based upon customer discretion. We estimate variable consideration at the most likely amount to which we expect to be entitled. We include estimated amounts in the transaction price to the extent it is probable that a significant reversal of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is resolved. Our estimates of variable consideration and determination of whether to include estimated amounts in the transaction price are based largely on an assessment of our anticipated performance and historical, current and forecasted information that is reasonably available to us. The transaction price is allocated to each distinct performance obligation using our best estimate of the standalone selling price for each distinct good or service promised in the contract. The primary method used to estimate standalone selling price is the expected cost plus a margin approach, under which we forecast our expected costs of satisfying a performance obligation and then add an appropriate margin for that distinct good or service promised. Revenue is recognized when, or as, the performance obligation is satisfied.
We recognize revenue over time when there is a continuous transfer of control to our customer. For our U.S. government contracts, this continuous transfer of control to the customer is supported by clauses in the contract that allow the U.S. government to unilaterally terminate the contract for convenience, pay us for costs incurred plus a reasonable profit and take control of any work in process. When control is transferred over time, revenue is recognized based on the extent of progress towards completion of the performance obligation. Based on the nature of the products and services provided in the contract, we use our judgment to determine if an input measure or output measure best depicts the transfer of control over time. For services contracts, we typically satisfy our performance obligations as services are rendered and use a contract cost-based input method to measure progress. Contract costs include labor, material and allocable indirect expenses. Revenue is recognized proportionally as contract costs are 
incurred plus estimated fees. For time-and-material contracts, we bill the customer per labor hour and per material, and revenue is recognized in the amount invoiced since the amount corresponds directly to the value of our performance to date. For stand-ready service contracts, a time-elapsed output method is used to measure progress, and revenue is recognized straight-line over the term of the contract. If a contract does not meet the criteria for recognizing revenue over time, we recognize revenue at a point in time. Revenue is recognized at the point in time when control of the good or service is transferred to our customer. We consider control to transfer when we have a present right to payment and our customer has legal title. Determining a measure of progress and when control transfers requires us to make judgments that affect the timing of when revenue is recognized. Essentially all of our contracts satisfy their performance obligations over time.
Contracts are often modified to account for changes in contract specifications and requirements. Contract modifications impact performance obligation when the modification either creates new or changes the existing enforceable rights and obligations. The effect of a contract modification on the transaction price and our measure of progress for the performance obligation to which it relates is recognized as an adjustment to revenue under the cumulative catch-up method. Furthermore, a significant change in one or more estimates could affect the profitability of our contracts. We recognize adjustments in estimated profit on contracts in the period identified. If at any time the estimate of contract profitability indicates an anticipated loss on the contract, we recognize the loss in the quarter it is identified. The impact of adjustments in contract estimates can be reflected in either revenue or operating expenses on the condensed consolidated statement of income.


item4.txt
It should be noted that a control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. As a result, our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance that such disclosure controls and procedures will meet their objectives.


part2.txt
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


