fls.txt



item1.txt
Revenue Recognition - On January 1, 2018, we adopted Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers using the modified retrospective method applied to those contracts that were not substantially complete as of January 1, 2018. ASC 606 outlines a five-step model whereby revenue is recognized as performance obligations within the contract are satisfied. ASC 606 also requires new, expanded disclosures regarding revenue recognition. We recognized the cumulative effect of adopting ASC 606 as an increase to the 2018 opening balance of retained earnings in the amount of $0.8 million, with the impact primarily related to fixed-price contracts. Results for reporting periods beginning after January 1, 2018 are presented under ASC 606, while prior period amounts were not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with ASC 605, Revenue Recognition. Revenue for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 increased $3.3 million as a result of applying ASC 606.
We recognize revenue over time when there is a continuous transfer of control to our customer. For our U.S. government contracts, this continuous transfer of control to the customer is supported by clauses in the contract that allow the U.S. government to unilaterally terminate the contract for convenience, pay us for costs incurred plus a reasonable profit and take control of any work in process. When control is transferred over time, revenue is recognized based on the extent of progress towards completion of the performance obligation. Based on the nature of the products and services provided in the contract, we use our judgment to determine if an input measure or output measure best depicts the transfer of control over time. For services contracts, we typically satisfy our performance obligations as services are rendered. We typically use a cost-based input method to measure progress. Contract costs include labor, material and allocable indirect expenses. Revenue is recognized proportionally as contract costs are incurred plus estimated fees. For time-and-material contracts, we bill the customer per labor hour and per material, and revenue is recognized in the amount invoiced since the amount corresponds directly to the value of our performance to date. For stand-ready service contracts, a time-elapsed output method is used to measure progress, and revenue is recognized straight-line over the term of the contract. If a contract does not meet the criteria for recognizing revenue over time, we recognize revenue at a point in time. Revenue is recognized at the point in time when control of the good or service is transferred to our customer. We consider control to transfer when we have a present right to payment and our customer has legal title. Determining a measure of progress and when control transfers requires us to make judgments that affect the timing of when revenue is recognized. Essentially, all of our contracts satisfy their performance obligations over time.
Results for prior periods were reported in accordance with ASC 605. Revenue for cost-reimbursable contracts were recorded as reimbursable costs were incurred, including an estimated share of the applicable contractual fees earned. For performance-based fees under cost-reimbursable contracts, we recognized the relevant portion of the expected fee to be awarded by the customer at the time such fee can be reasonably estimated, based on factors such as our prior award experience and communications with the customer regarding performance, or upon approval by the customer. For time-and-materials contracts, revenue was recognized to the extent of billable rates times hours delivered plus materials and other reimbursable costs incurred. For long-term fixed-price contracts, revenue was recognized at a rate per unit as the units were delivered or by other methods to measure services provided. Revenue from other long-term fixed-price contracts were recognized ratably over the contract period or by other appropriate methods to measure services provided. Contract costs were expensed as incurred except for certain limited long-term contracts noted below. For long-term contracts, specifically described in the scope section of ASC 605-35, Revenue Recognition - Construction-Type and Production-Type Contracts, we applied the percentage of completion method. Under the percentage of completion method, income was recognized at a consistent profit margin over the period of performance based on estimated profit margins at completion of the contract. This method of accounting required estimating the total revenue and total contract cost at completion of the contract. These estimates were periodically reviewed and revisions were made as required using the cumulative catch-up method. The impact on revenue and contract profit as a result of these revisions were included in the periods in which the revisions were made. Estimated losses on contracts at completion were recognized when identified. In certain circumstances, revenue was recognized when contract amendments were not finalized. 
Contract assets - Amounts are invoiced as work progresses in accordance with agreed-upon contractual terms, either at periodic intervals or upon achievement of contractual milestones. Generally, revenue recognition occurs before billing, resulting 
Billed receivables - Amounts billed and due from our customers are classified as billed receivables and are reported within receivables, net on the condensed consolidated balance sheet. The portion of the payments retained by the customer until final contract settlement is not considered a significant financing component because the intent is to protect the customer.
Contract liabilities - We receive advances and milestone payments from our customers on selected contracts that exceed revenue earned to date, resulting in contract liabilities. Contract liabilities typically are not considered a significant financing component because it is used to meet working capital demands that can be higher in the early stages of a contract and to protect us from the customer failing to adequately complete some or all of its obligations under the contract. Contract liabilities are reported on our condensed consolidated balance sheet on a net contract basis at the end of each reporting period.
Changes in the balances of contract assets and contract liabilities are primarily due to the timing difference between our performance and our customers' payments. For the three months ended September 30, 2018, the amount of revenue that was included in the opening contract liabilities balance was $4.2 million. For the nine months ended September 30, 2018, the amount of revenue that was included in the opening contract liabilities balance was $10.0 million.
The purchase price of $184.0 million was allocated to the underlying assets and liabilities based on their estimated fair value at the date of acquisition. The goodwill recorded related to this transaction will be deductible for tax purposes over 15 years. Recognition of goodwill is largely attributed to the value paid for InfoZen's capabilities to support customers in modernization, agile software development, cloud migration and threat monitoring and assessment capabilities. 
Basic earnings per share has been computed by dividing net income available to common stockholders by the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during each period. Shares issued during the period and shares reacquired during the period are weighted for the portion of the period in which the shares were outstanding. Diluted earnings per share have been computed in a manner consistent with that of basic earnings per share while giving effect to all potentially dilutive common shares that were outstanding during each period.
For the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, options to purchase 242,789 shares and 363,635 shares, respectively, were outstanding but not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the options' effect would have been anti-dilutive. For the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, options to purchase 268,013 shares and 301,985 shares, respectively, were outstanding but not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the options' effect would 
Depreciation and amortization expense related to property and equipment for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 was $6.4 million and $2.0 million, respectively. Depreciation and amortization expense related to property and equipment for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 was $19.1 million and $6.1 million, respectively.
The terms of the credit agreement permit prepayment and termination of the loan commitments at any time, subject to certain conditions. The credit agreement requires us to comply with specified financial covenants, including the maintenance of certain leverage ratios and a certain consolidated coverage ratio. The credit agreement also contains various covenants, including affirmative covenants with respect to certain reporting requirements and maintaining certain business activities, and negative covenants that, among other things, may limit or impose restrictions on our ability to incur liens, incur additional indebtedness, make investments, make acquisitions and undertake certain other actions. As of and during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, we were in compliance with the financial covenants under the credit agreement.
There was $0 and $31.0 million outstanding on our revolving credit facility at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. The maximum available borrowing under the revolving credit facility at September 30, 2018 was $484.7 million. As of September 30, 2018, we were contingently liable under letters of credit totaling $15.3 million, which reduces our availability to borrow under our revolving credit facility. 
We were a defendant in a lawsuit filed by two former employees with allegations of retaliation under both the False Claims Act and the Defense Contractor Whistleblower Protection Act. A jury found ManTech liable for discharging the two former employees. Both parties filed appeals to the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals. In August 2018, the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the finding of liability as to one of the former employees and affirmed the finding of liability as to the other former employee in the amount of $1.4 million. Our insurance policy covers the amount of the liability, therefore, no loss was recognized as of the nine months ended September 30, 2018. The impact of future events in connection with this matter will not have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flow.
We have $15.3 million outstanding on our letter of credit, of which $15.2 million is related to an outstanding performance bond in connection with a contract between ManTech MENA, LLC and Jadwalean International Operations and Management Company to fulfill technical support requirements for the Royal Saudi Air Force.
Our 2016 Management Incentive Plan (the Plan) was designed to attract, retain and motivate key employees. The types of awards available under the Plan include, among others, stock options, restricted stock and restricted stock units (RSUs). Equity awards granted under the Plan are settled in shares of Class A common stock. At the beginning of each year, the Plan provides that the number of shares available for issuance automatically increases by an amount equal to 1.5% of the total number of shares of Class A and Class B common stock outstanding on December 31st of the previous year. On January 2, 2018, there were 588,464 additional shares made available for issuance under the Plan. Through September 30, 2018, the Board of Directors has authorized the issuance of up to 14,551,899 shares under this Plan. Through September 30, 2018, the remaining aggregate number of shares of our common stock available for future grants under the Plan was 6,317,478. The Plan expires in March 2026.


item2.txt
We urge you not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement made herein following the date of this Quarterly Report, whether as a result of new information, subsequent events or circumstances, changes in expectations or otherwise.
The increase in cost of services was primarily due to increases in revenue. As a percentage of revenue, direct labor costs were 46% for the three months ended September 30, 2018, compared to 48% for the same period in 2017. As a percentage of revenues, other direct costs, which include subcontractors and third party equipment and materials used in the performance of our contracts, was 39% for the three months ended September 30, 2018, compared to 38% for the same period in 2017. 
The increase in cost of services was primarily due to increases in revenue. As a percentage of revenue, direct labor costs were 48% for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to 49% for the same period in 2017. As a percentage of revenue, other direct costs, which include subcontractors as well as equipment and materials used in the performance of our contracts, was 38% for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to 37% for the same period in 2017. We expect cost of services as a percentage of revenues to remain steady or slightly increase for the remainder of 2018 due to the potential for higher levels of materials in the last quarter of the year.
We define funded backlog to be the portion of backlog for which funding currently is appropriated and allocated to the contract by the purchasing agency or otherwise authorized for payment by the customer upon completion of a specific portion of work. Our funded backlog does not include the full value of our contracts because Congress often appropriates funds for a particular program or contract on a yearly or quarterly basis, even though the contract may call for performance over a much longer period of time.
A variety of circumstances or events may cause changes in the amount of our backlog and funded backlog, including the execution of new contracts, the extension of existing contracts, the non-renewal or completion of current contracts, the early termination of contracts, and adjustment to estimates for previously included contracts. Changes in the amount of our funded backlog also are affected by the funding cycles of the U.S. government.
Our primary liquidity needs relate to managing working capital, financing acquisitions, making cash dividend payments, purchasing property and equipment and investing in capital software. Our primary sources of liquidity are cash from operating activities and borrowings under our revolving credit facility. On September 30, 2018, our cash and cash equivalents balance was $15.0 million. There were no outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility at September 30, 2018. The maximum available borrowings under our revolving credit facility at September 30, 2018 were $484.7 million. As of September 30, 2018, we were contingently liable under letters of credit totaling $15.3 million, which reduces our availability to borrow under our revolving credit facility. 
To the extent possible, we invest our available cash in short-term, investment grade securities in accordance with our investment policy. Under our investment policy, we manage our investments in accordance with the priorities of maintaining the safety of our principal, maintaining the liquidity of our investments, maximizing the yield on our investments and investing our cash to the fullest extent possible. Our investment policy provides that no investment security can have a final maturity that exceeds six months and that the weighted average maturity of the portfolio cannot exceed 60 days. Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, amounts due from banks and short-term investments with maturity dates of three months or less at the date of purchase.
In the ordinary course of business, we use letters of credit issued to satisfy certain contractual terms with our customers. As of September 30, 2018, $15.3 million in letters of credit were issued but undrawn. We have an outstanding performance bond in connection with a contract between ManTech MENA, LLC and Jadwalean International Operations and Management Company to fulfill technical support requirements for the Royal Saudi Air Force. This performance bond is guaranteed by a letter of credit in the amount of $15.2 million. We have off-balance sheet arrangements related to operating leases. For a description of our operating leases, see our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, previously filed with the SEC.
We recognize revenue over time when there is a continuous transfer of control to our customer. For our U.S. government contracts, this continuous transfer of control to the customer is supported by clauses in the contract that allow the U.S. government to unilaterally terminate the contract for convenience, pay us for costs incurred plus a reasonable profit and take control of any work in process. When control is transferred over time, revenue is recognized based on the extent of progress towards completion of the performance obligation. Based on the nature of the products and services provided in the contract, we use our judgment to determine if an input measure or output measure best depicts the transfer of control over time. For services contracts, we typically satisfy our performance obligations as services are rendered and use a contract cost-based input method to measure progress. Contract costs include labor, material and allocable indirect expenses. Revenue is recognized proportionally as contract costs are incurred plus estimated fees. For time-and-material contracts, we bill the customer per labor hour and per material, and revenue is recognized in the amount invoiced since the amount corresponds directly to the value of our performance to date. For stand-ready service contracts, a time-elapsed output method is used to measure progress, and revenue is recognized straight-line over the term of the contract. If a contract does not meet the criteria for recognizing revenue over time, we recognize revenue at a point in time. Revenue is recognized at the point in time when control of the good or service is transferred to our customer. We consider control to transfer when we have a present right to payment and our customer has legal title. Determining a measure of progress and when control transfers requires us to make judgments that affect the timing of when revenue is recognized. Essentially all of our contracts satisfy their performance obligations over time.
Contracts are often modified to account for changes in contract specifications and requirements. Contract modifications impact performance obligation when the modification either creates new or changes the existing enforceable rights and obligations. The effect of a contract modification on the transaction price and our measure of progress for the performance obligation to which it relates is recognized as an adjustment to revenue under the cumulative catch-up method. Furthermore, a significant change in one or more estimates could affect the profitability of our contracts. We recognize adjustments in estimated profit on contracts in the period identified. If at any time the estimate of contract profitability indicates an anticipated loss on the contract, we recognize the loss in the quarter it is identified. The impact of adjustments in contract estimates can be reflected in either revenue or operating expenses on the condensed consolidated statement of income.
ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606) supersedes existing revenue recognition guidance, including ASC 605-35, Revenue Recognition - Construction-Type and Production-Type Contracts. ASU 2014-09 outlines a single set of comprehensive principles for recognizing revenue under GAAP. Among other things, it requires companies to identify contractual performance obligations and determine whether revenue should be recognized at a point in time or over time. It also requires new, expanded disclosures regarding revenue recognition. We elected to adopt using the modified retrospective method that applied to those contracts that were not substantially completed as of January 1, 2018. We recognized the cumulative effect of adopting ASC 606 as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the amount of $0.8 million, with the impact primarily related to fixed-price contracts. Results for reporting periods beginning after January 1, 2018 are presented under ASC 606, while prior period amounts were not adjusted and reported in accordance with ASC 605, Revenue Recognition. Revenue for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 increased $3.3 million as a result of applying ASC 606.


item3.txt



item4.txt
It should be noted that a control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. As a result, our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance that such disclosure controls and procedures will meet their objectives.


part2.txt
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


