ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. 



This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). When used herein, the words “believes,” “anticipates,” “plans,” “expects,” “estimates,” “would,” “will,” “intends” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements reflect management’s current opinions and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause results to differ materially from those stated or implied. While we may elect to update forward looking statements in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so even if our estimates or expectations change. Risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to those discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 in the section entitled “Risk Factors” as referenced in Part II, Item 1A “Risk Factors” of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 



Overview 



We are a global provider of instruments, subsystems and process control solutions that measure, monitor, deliver, analyze, power and control critical parameters of advanced manufacturing processes to improve process performance and productivity. Our products are derived from our core competencies in pressure measurement and control, flow measurement and control, gas and vapor delivery, gas composition analysis, residual gas analysis, leak detection, control technology, ozone generation and delivery, power, reactive gas generation, vacuum technology, lasers, photonics, sub-micron positioning, vibration control, and optics. We also provide services relating to the maintenance and repair of our products, installation services and training. 







Our primary served markets are manufacturers of capital equipment for semiconductor manufacturing, industrial technologies, life and health sciences, as well as research and defense. We have a diverse base of customers. Approximately 56% and 58% of our net revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, were from sales to semiconductor capital equipment manufacturers and semiconductor device manufacturers. 



Approximately 44% and 42% of our net revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, were from other advanced manufacturing applications. These include, but are not limited to, industrial technologies, life and health sciences, and research and defense. 





The semiconductor capital equipment industry is experiencing a moderation in capital spending in the near term and, we have seen a similar effect on our semiconductor revenue in the third quarter and expect that to continue into the fourth quarter. The semiconductor capital equipment industry is subject to rapid demand shifts, which are difficult to predict, and we cannot be certain as to the timing or extent of future demand or any future weakness in the semiconductor capital equipment industry. 









A significant portion of our net revenues is from sales to customers in international markets. For both nine month periods ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, international net revenues accounted for approximately 50% of our total net revenues. A significant portion of our international net revenues was from South Korea, Japan, Germany, China and Israel. We expect that international net revenues will continue to represent a significant percentage of our total net revenues. Long-lived assets located in the United States were $139 million and $125 million as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, excluding goodwill and intangibles, and long-term tax-related accounts. Long-lived assets located outside of the United States were $76 million and $78 million as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, excluding goodwill and intangibles, and long-term tax-related accounts. 



Recent Events 



On October 29, 2018, we entered into a definitive merger agreement to acquire Electro Scientific Industries, Inc. (“ESI”), an innovator in laser-based manufacturing solutions for the micro-machining industry. Pursuant to the merger agreement, we agreed to pay $30.00 per share in cash for all of the outstanding shares of ESI, for total cash consideration of approximately $1 billion. We intend to fund the transaction with a combination of available cash on hand and up to $650 million in committed term loan debt financing. The acquisition is expected to close in the first quarter of 2019, subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions, including receipt of required regulatory approvals and approval by ESI’s shareholders. Our obligations to complete the acquisition are not subject to any financing condition. Also, on October 29, 2018, we entered into a commitment letter to provide for a $100 million asset-based revolving credit facility for working capital purposes to replace our existing $50 million asset-based revolving credit facility.  



Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 



The preparation of our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported. There have been no material changes in our critical accounting policies since December 31, 2017, other than the adoption of ASC 606 as outlined below. 



We adopted ASC 606 on January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method for all contracts not completed as of the date of adoption. The reported results for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 reflect the application of ASC 606 guidance while the reported results for 2017 were prepared under the guidance of Accounting Standards Codification 605, Revenue Recognition. 



We have recorded a net increase to opening retained earnings of $1.8 million as of January 1, 2018 due to the cumulative impact of adopting ASC 606, with the impact primarily related to our service business and certain custom products. The impact to revenue for the quarter ended September 30, 2018 as a result of applying ASC 606 was immaterial. 





•  



Identify the contract with a customer 



•  



Identify the performance obligations in the contract 



•  



Determine the transaction price 



•  



Allocate the transaction price to performance obligations in the contract 



•  



Recognize revenue when or as we satisfy a performance obligation 



Revenue under ASC 606 is recognized when or as obligations under the terms of a contract with our customer has been satisfied and control has transferred to the customer. The majority of our performance obligations, and associated revenue, are transferred to customers at a point in time, generally upon shipment of a product to the customer or receipt of the product by the customer and without significant judgments. Installation services are not significant and are usually completed in a short period of time (normally less than two weeks) and therefore, recorded at a point in time when the installation services are completed, rather than over time as they are not material. Extended warranty, service contracts, and repair services, which are transferred to the customer over time, are recorded as revenue as the services are performed. For repair services, we make an accrual at quarter end based upon historical repair times within our product groups to record revenue based upon the estimated number of days completed to date, which is consistent  





with ratable recognition. Customized products with no alternative future use to us, and that have an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date, are also recorded over time. We consider this to be a faithful depiction of the transfer to the customer of revenue over time as the work performed daily is primarily ratable over time. 



Revenue is measured as the amount of consideration we expect to receive in exchange for transferring goods or providing services. Performance obligations promised in a contract are identified based on the product or service that will be transferred to the customer that are both capable of being distinct, whereby the customer can benefit from the product or service either on its own or together with other resources that are readily available from third parties or from us, and are distinct in the context of the contract, whereby the transfer of the product or service is separately identifiable from other promises in the contract. Sales, value add, and other taxes we collect concurrent with revenue-producing activities are excluded from revenue. Our normal payment terms are 30 to 60 days but vary by the type and location of our customers and the products or services offered. The time between invoicing and when payment is due is not significant. For certain products and services and customer types, we require payment before the products or services are delivered to, or performed for, the customer. None of our contracts as of September 30, 2018 contain a significant financing component. Contract assets as of January 1 and September 30, 2018 were $3.1 million and $4.0 million, respectively, and included in other current assets. 



Contracts with Multiple Performance Obligations 



We periodically enter into contracts with our customers in which a customer may purchase a combination of goods and or services, such as products with installation services or extended warranty obligations. These contracts include multiple promises that we evaluate to determine if the promises are separate performance obligations. Once we determine the performance obligations, we then determine the transaction price, which includes estimating the amount of variable consideration to be included in the transaction price, if any. To the extent the transaction price includes variable consideration, we estimate the amount of variable consideration that should be included in the transaction price utilizing either the expected value method or the most likely amount method depending on the method we expect to better predict the amount of consideration to which it will be entitled. There are no constraints on the variable consideration recorded. We then allocate the transaction price to each performance obligation in the contract based on a relative stand-alone selling price charged separately to customers or using an expected cost plus margin method. The corresponding revenues are recognized when or as the related performance obligations are satisfied, which are noted above. Impacts of variable consideration were immaterial during the period. 



Deferred Revenues 



Our standard assurance warranty period is normally 12 to 24 months. We sell separately-priced service contracts and extended warranty contracts related to certain of our products, especially our laser products. The separately priced contracts generally range from 12 to 60 months. We normally receive payment at the inception of the contract and recognize revenue over the term of the agreement in proportion to the costs expected to be incurred in satisfying the obligations under the contract. We have elected to use the practical expedient related to disclosing the remaining performance obligations as of September 30, 2018, as the majority have a duration of less than one year. 



Costs to Obtain and Fulfill a Contract 



Under ASC 606, we expense sales commissions when incurred because the amortization period would have been one year or less. These costs are recorded within selling, general and administration expenses. We have elected to recognize the costs for freight and shipping when control over products has transferred to the customer as an expense in cost of sales. 



We monitor and track the amount of product returns and reduce revenue at the time of shipment for the estimated amount of future returns, based on historical experience. We make estimates evaluating our allowance for doubtful accounts. We continuously monitor collections and payments from our customers and maintain a provision for estimated credit losses based upon our historical experience and any specific customer collection issues that we have identified. 



For further information about our critical accounting policies, including our revenue recognition policy, please see the discussion of critical accounting policies in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 in the section captioned “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates.” 





Results of Operations 



The following table sets forth for the periods indicated the percentage of total net revenues of certain line items included in our consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income data. 





Net Revenues 





Product revenues decreased $2.6 million during the three months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the same period in the prior year, due to a decrease in net product revenues from our semiconductor customers of $24.2 million, offset by an increase in net product revenues from customers in our other advanced markets of $21.6 million, primarily from our industrial technologies market. Product revenues increased $189.7 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, due to increases in net product revenues from customers in our other advanced markets of $110.0 million, primarily from our industrial technologies market, and an increase in in net product revenues from our semiconductor customers of $79.7 million, primarily due to volume increases. 



Service revenues consisted mainly of fees for services related to the maintenance and repair of our products, sales of spare parts, and installation and training. In 2018, we started to record the sales of spare parts in our service revenue and related cost of sales line items rather than in our product revenue and related cost of sales line items. As a result, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, we reclassified $5.8 million and $16.4 million, respectively, of product revenue for spare parts from product to service revenue. Service revenues increased $3.5 million and $20.7 million during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, compared to the same periods in the prior year. These increases were primarily attributed to increases in net service revenues from our semiconductor customers of $3.0 million and $18.0 million for the three and nine month periods ended  





September 30, 2018, respectively. The remainder of the changes were attributed to net service revenues from customers in our advanced markets of $0.5 million and $2.7 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, primarily from our research and defense and industrial technologies markets. 



Total international net revenues, including product and service, were $243.9 million and $812.8 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, compared to $248.7 million and $703.9 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, respectively. The decreases of $4.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018 were primarily due to decreases in net revenues in Korea. The increase of $108.9 million in total international net revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the same period in the prior year, were due to increases in net revenues in Japan, Germany, and China. 











Gross Profit 





Gross profit as a percentage of net product revenues increased by 1.3 percentage points for the three months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily due to favorable product mix. Gross profit as a percentage of net product revenues increased by 1.1 percentage points for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily due to higher revenue volumes. 



Gross profit as a percentage of net service revenues decreased by 3.6 percentage points for the three months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily due to higher material costs from unfavorable product mix, partially offset by lower overhead costs. Gross profit as a percentage of net service revenues increased 1.0 percentage points for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily due to lower overhead costs, partially offset by unfavorable product mix. 













Research and Development 





Research and development expenses decreased $0.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily due to a decrease of project materials.  



Research and development expenses increased $3.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily due to an increase of $3.0 million in compensation costs and benefits. 



Our research and development efforts are primarily focused on developing and improving our instruments, components, subsystems and process control solutions to improve process performance and productivity. 



We have thousands of products, and our research and development efforts primarily consist of a large number of projects related to these products, none of which is individually material to us. Current projects typically have durations of 3 to 30 months depending upon whether the product is an enhancement of existing technology or a new product. Our current initiatives include projects to enhance the performance characteristics of older products, to develop new products and to integrate various technologies into subsystems. These projects support in large part the transition in the semiconductor industry to smaller integrated circuit geometries and in the flat panel display and solar markets to larger substrate sizes, which require more advanced process control technology. Research and development expenses consist primarily of salaries and related expenses for personnel engaged in research and development, fees paid to consultants, material costs for prototypes and other expenses related to the design, development, testing and enhancement of our products. 



We believe that the continued investment in research and development and ongoing development of new products are essential to the expansion of our markets. We expect to continue to make significant investment in research and development activities. We are subject to risks from products not being developed in a timely manner, as well as from rapidly changing customer requirements and competitive threats from other companies and technologies. Our success primarily depends on our products being designed into new generations of equipment for the semiconductor industry and other advanced technology markets. We develop products that are technologically advanced so that they are positioned to be chosen for use in each successive generation of semiconductor capital equipment. If our products are not chosen to be designed into our customers’ products, our net revenues may be reduced during the lifespan of those products. 





Selling, General and Administrative 





Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased by $0.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily due to a decrease of $2.7 million of compensation costs and related benefits and $0.8 million of commissions expense, partially offset by an increase of $2.2 million of consulting and professional fees and $0.4 million in information technology related expenses. 



Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $12.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily due to an increase of $8.4 million of compensation costs and related benefits, and $4.0 million of consulting and professional fees. 



Acquisition and Integration Costs 





We recorded acquisition and integration costs related to the Company’s acquisition of Newport Corporation in April 2016 (the “Newport Merger”) during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017. During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we reversed a portion of these costs related to severance agreement provisions that were not met. 



Restructuring 





We recorded restructuring costs during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, which were primarily comprised of severance costs related to a moderate reduction in workforce during the third quarter of 2018 and transferring a portion of our shared accounting functions in the United States to a third party as well as the consolidation of certain shared accounting functions in Asia. We recorded restructuring costs during the nine months ended September 30, 2017 related to the discontinuation of a product line resulting in the consolidation of two manufacturing plants, the restructuring of one of our international facilities and the consolidation of sales offices. 



Environmental Costs 





We recorded $1.0 million of environmental costs during the first quarter of 2018 related to a U.S. Environmental Protection Agency-designated Superfund site acquired as part of the Newport Merger. 



Asset Impairment 







We recorded $6.7 million of asset impairment charges for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 due to the consolidation of two manufacturing plants. These charges primarily related to the write-off of certain goodwill and intangible assets. 



Fees and Expenses Related to Repricing of Term Loan 





We recorded fees and expenses related to the third and fourth repricing, respectively, of our Term Loan Facility (as defined below under “Liquidity and Capital Resources – Term Loan Credit Agreement.” 



Amortization of Intangible Assets 





Amortization of intangible assets decreased by $0.3 million and $2.1 million during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, compared to the same periods in the prior year, due to certain intangible assets becoming fully amortized. 



Interest Expense, Net 





Interest expense, net, decreased by $4.1 million and $12.1 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively. The decreases for the three and nine month periods ended September 30, 2018 were due primarily to principal prepayments of $275.0 million since the beginning of 2017, and repricings of, our Term Loan Facility. 



Gain on Sale of Business 





We recorded a $74.9 million gain for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 on the sale of our Data Analytics Solutions business during the second quarter of 2017. 



Other Expense, Net 





The changes in other expense, net for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, primarily related to changes in foreign exchange rates. 





Provision for Income Taxes 





Our effective tax rate for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 was 18.5% and 17.6%, respectively. The effective tax rate in 2018 and related income tax expense, was impacted by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“the Act”), which was enacted into law on December 22, 2017. We account for income tax effects resulting from changes in tax laws in accordance with the authoritative guidance, which requires that these tax effects be recognized in the period in which the law is enacted and that the effects are recorded as a component of provision for income taxes from continuing operations. As a result, we recorded provisional amounts as of December 31, 2017 related to the one-time transition tax and the change in U.S. net deferred tax liabilities resulting from the change in the U.S. statutory rate resulting from the enactment of the Act in accordance with Staff Accounting Bulletin 118 (“SAB 118”). The provisional amounts recorded for the Act were adjusted in the quarter ended September 30, 2018 and resulted in an increase to our tax expense of approximately $0.9 million. We expect these provisional amounts to be finalized during the fourth quarter of 2018. The effective tax rate for the period ending September 30, 2018 was lower than the U.S. statutory rate due to foreign earnings taxed at lower rates, windfall tax benefits of stock compensation and the new deduction for foreign derived intangible income from the Act, offset by state taxes. 



Our effective tax rate for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 was 25.0% and 22.3%, respectively. The effective tax rate for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 was lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate mainly due to the impact of lower tax rates on foreign income and the deductions for domestic production activities and windfall tax benefits of stock compensation. 



At September 30, 2018, the total amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits, which excludes interest and penalties, was approximately $32.5 million. At December 31, 2017, the total amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits, which excludes interest and penalties, was approximately $27.3 million. The net increase from December 31, 2017 was primarily attributable to uncertain tax positions and the addition of income tax reserves related to the one-time transition tax from the Act. At September 30, 2018, excluding interest and penalties, there were approximately $25.0 million of net unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would impact our annual effective tax rate. We accrue interest and, if applicable, penalties for any uncertain tax positions. Interest and penalties are classified as a component of income tax expense. As of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, we had accrued interest on unrecognized tax benefits of approximately $0.5 million and $0.3 million, respectively. 



Over the next 12 months it is reasonably possible that we may recognize approximately $1.5 million of previously net unrecognized tax benefits, excluding interest and penalties, related to federal, state and foreign tax positions as a result of the expiration of statutes of limitation. The U.S. statute of limitations remains open for tax years 2015 through present. The statute of limitations for our tax filings in other jurisdictions varies between fiscal years 2012 through the present. We also have certain federal credit carry-forwards and state tax loss and credit carry-forwards that are open to examination for tax years 2000 through the present. 



We are subject to examination by U.S. federal, state and foreign tax authorities. The U.S. Internal Revenue Service commenced an examination of our U.S. federal income tax filings for tax years 2015 and 2016 during the quarter ended September 30, 2017. This audit was effectively settled during the quarter ended March 31, 2018. During the quarter ended March 31, 2018 we received notification from the U.S. Internal Revenue Service of their intent to audit our U.S. subsidiary, Newport Corporation, for tax year 2015. This audit commenced during the quarter ended June 30, 2018 and there have been no issues identified at this time. 



On a quarterly basis, we evaluate both positive and negative evidence that affects the realizability of net deferred tax assets and assess the need for a valuation allowance. The future benefit to be derived from our deferred tax assets is dependent upon our ability to generate sufficient future taxable income in each jurisdiction of the right type to realize the assets. 



Our future effective tax rate depends on various factors, including further interpretations and guidance from U.S. federal and state governments on the impact of the enactment of the Act, the adoption of the proposed regulations issued by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service on the one-time transition tax and the global intangible low-taxed income provision, as well as the geographic composition of our pre-tax income, and changes in income tax reserves for unrecognized tax benefits. We monitor these factors and timely adjust our estimates of the effective tax rate accordingly. We expect that the geographic mix of pre-tax income will continue to have a favorable impact on our effective tax rate, however the geographic mix of pre-tax income can change based on multiple factors resulting in changes to the effective tax rate in future periods. The effective tax rate in 2018 could be affected by adjustments to the provisional amounts recorded under the guidance of SAB 118 for the one-time transition tax and the revaluation of deferred tax assets and liabilities due to the U.S. statutory rate change in 2017. While we believe we have adequately provided for all tax positions,  





amounts asserted by taxing authorities could materially differ from our accrued positions as a result of uncertain and complex application of tax law and regulations. Additionally, the recognition and measurement of certain tax benefits include estimates and judgment by management. Accordingly, we could record additional provisions or benefits for U.S. federal, state, and foreign tax matters in future periods as new information becomes available. 



Liquidity and Capital Resources 



Cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash and short-term marketable investments totaled $619.6 million at September 30, 2018, compared to $543.3 million at December 31, 2017. 



Net cash provided by operating activities was $278.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and resulted from net income of $321.3 million, which included non-cash charges of $99.1 million, offset by a net increase in working capital of $142.1 million. The net increase in working capital was due to an increase in inventories of $80.4 million, an increase in accounts receivable of $23.1 million and an increase in other current and non-current assets of $17.7 million, related to an increase in business activities, a decrease in accrued compensation of $15.5 million, a decrease in income taxes of $13.9 million and a decrease in accounts payable $0.4 million. These increases in working capital were offset by an increase in other current and non-current liabilities of $8.9 million. 



Net cash provided by operating activities was $274.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 and resulted from net income of $261.5 million, which included non-cash charges of $44.1 million, offset by a net increase in working capital of $31.2 million. The net increase in working capital was due to an increase in inventories of $51.3 million and an increase in accounts receivable of $26.5 million, related to an increase in business activities, and an increase in other current and non-current assets of $9.7 million. These increases in working capital were offset by an increase in other current and non-current liabilities of $22.5 million, an increase in accrued income taxes of $15.6 million, accrued compensation of $11.1 million and accounts payable of $7.1 million. 



Net cash used in investing activities was $47.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, due to the purchases of production-related equipment of $36.9 million and net purchases of short-term investments of $10.5 million. Net cash provided by investing activities was $16.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 due to proceeds received from the sale of our Data Analytics Solutions business of $72.5 million, offset by net sales and maturities of short-term investments of $38.7 million and purchases of production-related equipment of $17.8 million. 



Net cash used in financing activities was $167.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, and resulted from the repurchase of common stock of $75.0 million, partial repayment of our Term Loan Facility of $50.0 million, dividend payments made to common stockholders of $31.6 million and net payments related to tax payments for employee stock awards of $13.6 million, partially offset by net borrowings relating to our lines of credit of $2.7 million. Net cash used in financing activities was $221.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 and resulted primarily from partial repayment of the Term Loan Facility of $178.1 million, dividend payments made to common stockholders of $28.4 million and net payments related to tax payments for employee stock awards of $14.7 million.  



On July 25, 2011, our Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program for the repurchase of up to an aggregate of $200 million of our outstanding common stock from time to time in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or through other appropriate means. The timing and quantity of any shares repurchased depends upon a variety of factors, including business conditions, stock market conditions and business development activities, including but not limited to merger and acquisition opportunities. These repurchases may be commenced, suspended or discontinued at any time without prior notice. During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we repurchased approximately 818,000 shares of our common stock for $75 million, or an average price of $91.67. During the nine months ended September 30, 2017, we did not repurchase any shares of common stock. We have repurchased approximately 2,588,000 shares of common stock for approximately $127 million pursuant to the program since its adoption. 



Holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends when and if they are declared by our Board of Directors. Our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.18 per share during the first quarter of 2018 and $0.20 per share during the second and third quarters of 2018, which totaled $31.6 million, or $0.58 per share. Our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.175 per share during the first, second and third quarters of 2017, which totaled $28.4 million, or $0.53 per share. 



On October 29, 2018, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.20 per share to be paid on December 7, 2018 to shareholders of record as of November 26, 2018. Future dividend declarations, if any, as well as the record and payment dates for such dividends, are subject to the final determination of our Board of Directors. In addition, under the terms of our senior secured Term Loan Facility and our senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility, we may be restricted from paying dividends under certain circumstances. 





Sale of Data Analytics Solutions Business 



In April 2017, we completed the sale of our Data Analytics Solutions business for total proceeds of $72.5 million, net of cash sold and recorded a pre-tax gain of $74.9 million. 



Term Loan Credit Agreement 





In June 2016, we entered into Amendment No. 1 (the “Repricing Amendment 1”) to the Credit Agreement by and among the Company, the Lenders and Barclays Bank PLC, as administrative agent and collateral agent for the Lenders. The Repricing Amendment 1 decreased the applicable margin for borrowings under our Term Loan Facility to 2.50% for base rate borrowings and 3.50% for LIBOR borrowings and extended the period during which a prepayment premium may be required for a “Repricing Transaction” (as defined in the Credit Agreement) until six months after the effective date of the Repricing Amendment 1. In connection with the execution of the Repricing Amendment 1, we paid a prepayment premium of 1.00%, or $7.3 million, as well as certain fees and expenses of the administrative agent and the Lenders, in accordance with the terms of the Credit Agreement. Immediately prior to the effectiveness of the Repricing Amendment 1, we prepaid $50.0 million of principal under the Credit Agreement. In September 2016, we prepaid an additional $60.0 million under the Credit Agreement. 



In September 2016, we entered into an interest rate swap agreement, which has a maturity date of September 30, 2020, to fix the rate on $335.0 million of the then-outstanding balance under the Credit Agreement. The rate is fixed at 1.198% per annum plus the applicable credit spread, which was 1.75% at September 30, 2018. At September 30, 2018, the notional amount of the interest rate swap agreement was $290.0 million. 



In December 2016, we entered into Amendment No. 2 (the "Repricing Amendment 2") to the Credit Agreement by and among the Company, the Lenders and Barclays Bank PLC, as administrative agent and collateral agent for the Lenders. The Repricing Amendment 2 decreased the applicable margin for our term loan under the Credit Agreement to 2.75% for LIBOR borrowings and 1.75% for base rate borrowings and reset the period during which a prepayment premium may be required for a Repricing Transaction until six months after the effective date of the Repricing Amendment 2. In November 2016, prior to the effectiveness of the Repricing Amendment 2, we prepaid an additional $40.0 million of principal under the Credit Agreement. In March 2017, we prepaid an additional $50.0 million of principal under the Credit Agreement. 





In April 2018, we entered into Amendment No. 4 (the “Repricing Amendment 4”) to the Credit Agreement by and among the Company, the Lenders and Barclays Bank PLC, as administrative agent and collateral agent for the Lenders. The Repricing Amendment 4 decreased the applicable margin for our term loan under the Credit Agreement to 1.75% for LIBOR rate loans, with a LIBOR rate floor of 0.75%. The margin for base rate borrowings decreased to 0.75% with a base rate floor of 1.75%. The period during which a prepayment premium may be required for a Repricing Transaction was reset to six months after the effective date of the Repricing Amendment 4. 





In July 2017, August 2017, November 2017 and March 2018 we voluntarily prepaid $50.0 million, $75.0 million, $50.0 million and $50.0 million, respectively, of principal under the Credit Agreement. As of September 30, 2018, after total principal prepayments of $425.0 million and regularly scheduled principal payments of $6.5 million, the total outstanding principal balance was $348.5 million. The interest rate as of September 30, 2018 was 3.8%. 



We incurred $28.7 million of deferred finance fees, original issue discount and repricing fees related to the term loans under the Term Loan Facility, which are included in long-term debt in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and are being amortized to interest expense over the estimated life of the term loans using the effective interest method. A portion of these fees have been accelerated in connection with the various debt prepayments during 2016, 2017 and 2018. As of September 30, 2018, the remaining balance of the deferred finance fees, original issue discount and repricing fees related to the Term Loan Facility was $5.6 million. 



Under the Credit Agreement, we are required to prepay outstanding term loans, subject to certain exceptions, with portions of our annual excess cash flow as well as with the net cash proceeds of certain asset sales, certain casualty and condemnation events and the incurrence or issuance of certain debt. We are also required to make scheduled quarterly payments each equal to 0.25% of the principal amount of the term loan, less the amount of certain voluntary and mandatory repayments after such date, with the balance due on the seventh anniversary of the closing date. As a result of making total prepayments of $425.0 million through September 30, 2018 and based on our Total Leverage Ratio, we are no longer required to make any scheduled quarterly principal payments until maturity of the loan. 



All obligations under the Term Loan Facility are guaranteed by certain of our domestic subsidiaries, and are secured by substantially all of our assets and the assets of such subsidiaries, subject to certain exceptions and exclusions. 



The Credit Agreement contains customary representations and warranties, affirmative and negative covenants and provisions relating to events of default. If an event of default occurs, the Lenders under the Term Loan Facility will be entitled to take various actions, including the acceleration of amounts due under the Term Loan Facility and all actions generally permitted to be taken by a secured creditor. At September 30, 2018, we were in compliance with all covenants under the Credit Agreement. 



Senior Secured Asset-Based Revolving Credit Facility 







We have incurred $1.2 million of costs in connection with the ABL Facility, which were capitalized and included in other assets in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and are being amortized to interest expense using the straight-line method over the contractual term of five years of the ABL Facility. 



In addition to paying interest on outstanding principal under the ABL Facility, we are required to pay a commitment fee in respect of the unutilized commitments thereunder. The initial commitment fee is 0.375% per annum. The total commitment fees recognized in interest expense for both the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 were immaterial. Commencing with the completion of the first fiscal quarter ending after the closing of the ABL Facility, the commitment fee is subject to downward adjustment based on the amount of average unutilized commitments for the three month period immediately preceding such adjustment date. We must also pay customary letter of credit fees and agency fees. 





Lines of Credit and Short-Term Borrowing Arrangements 



One of our Japanese subsidiaries has lines of credit and short-term borrowing arrangements with two financial institutions which arrangements generally expire and are renewed at three-month intervals. The lines of credit provide for aggregate borrowings as of September 30, 2018, of up to an equivalent of $35.6 million U.S. dollars. One of the borrowing arrangements has an interest rate based on the Tokyo Interbank Offer Rate at the time of borrowing and the other has an interest rate based on the Japanese Short-Term Prime Lending Rate. Total borrowings outstanding under these arrangements were $0.5 million at September 30, 2018. There were no borrowings outstanding under these arrangements at December 31, 2017. 



We assumed various revolving lines of credit and a financing facility with the completion of the Newport Merger. These revolving lines of credit and financing facility have no expiration date and provide for aggregate borrowings as of September 30, 2018 of up to an equivalent of $11.0 million U.S. dollars. These lines of credit have a base interest rate of 1.25% plus a Japanese Yen overnight LIBOR rate. Total borrowings outstanding under these arrangements were $5.0 million and $3.0 million at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017. 



One of our Austrian subsidiaries has various outstanding loans from the Austrian government to fund research and development. These loans are unsecured and do not require principal repayment as long as certain conditions are met. Interest on these loans is payable semi-annually. The interest rates associated with these loans range from 0.75% to 2.00%. 



Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 



We do not have any financial partnerships with unconsolidated entities, such as entities often referred to as structured finance, special purpose entities or variable interest entities, which are often established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or for other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Accordingly, we have no off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably expected to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that are material to investors. 



Contractual Obligations 



Since inception of the Credit Agreement, we have made total prepayments of $425.0 million and regularly scheduled principal payments of $6.5 million. The total outstanding principal balance on our Credit Agreement was $348.5 million at September 30, 2018. As a result of making total prepayments of $425.0 million since the inception of the Credit Agreement and based on our Total Leverage Ratio, we are no longer required to make any scheduled principal payments until the maturity date of the loan. There have been no other changes outside the ordinary course of business to our contractual obligations as disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017. 



Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements 



In March 2018, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU) 2018-05, “Income Taxes (Topic 740).” This standard is an amendment that adopts the language of SAB 118 and aims to address certain circumstances that may arise for registrants in accounting for the income tax effects of the Act and to address any uncertainty or diversity of views in practice regarding the application of Topic 740 in situations where a registrant does not have the necessary information available, prepared, or analyzed (including computations) in reasonable detail to complete the accounting under Topic 740 for certain income tax effects of the Act for the reporting period in which the Act was enacted. The provisions of this ASU were applied to our December 31, 2017 financial statements. We recorded provisional amounts with respect to the Act at December 31, 2017 and September 30, 2018 and need to complete additional analysis and receive additional guidance from the U.S. Internal Revenue Service with respect to provisions of the Act that affect us before the provisional determinations become final. Until we complete our analysis and receive additional guidance, we are not able to determine if the impact of ASU 2018-05 is material to our consolidated financial statements in any period. 



In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-12, “Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815).” This standard better aligns an entity’s risk management activities and financial reporting for hedging relationships through changes to both the designation and measurement guidance for qualifying hedging relationships and the presentation of hedge results. The provisions of this ASU are effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. We do not expect adoption of this ASU to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 



In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, “Leases (Topic 842).” This standard requires the recognition of lease assets and liabilities for all leases, with certain exceptions, on the balance sheet. In transition, lessees and lessors have the option to either apply the standard retrospectively through a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the period of  





adoption or they can apply the new standard to comparative periods presented. This ASU is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. The FASB issued additional updates to the new standard in Topic 842 (Update 2018-01 in January 2018 – Land Easement Practical Expedient for Transition to Topic 842, Update 2018-10 – Codification Improvements to Topic 842 and Update 2018-11 in July 2018 – Targeted Improvements). We have reviewed the requirements of the new standard and have formulated a plan for implementation. We have communicated our approach to our Audit Committee and will provide regular updates as appropriate. We are currently accumulating details on the population of leases and entering these details into a selected software database, which will be a repository and accounting solution for reporting and disclosure requirements required by the standard. We will continue to assess and disclose the impact that this ASU will have on our consolidated financial statements, disclosures and related controls, when known. 



ITEM 2.  



UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS 



The following table sets forth certain information with respect to repurchases of our common stock during the three months ended September 30, 2018.  







On July 25, 2011, our Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program (the “Program”) for the repurchase of up to an aggregate of $200 million of our common stock from time to time in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or through other appropriate means, which we announced on July 27, 2011. The timing and quantity of any shares repurchased will depend upon a variety of factors, including business conditions, stock market conditions, debt agreement limitations and business development activities, including but not limited to merger and acquisition opportunities. These repurchases may be commenced, suspended or discontinued at any time without prior notice. 





We have repurchased approximately 2,588,000 shares of our common stock for approximately $127 million pursuant to the Program since its adoption. 





ITEM 6.  



EXHIBITS. 





+  



Previously filed 





Incorporated by reference to the Registration Statement on Form S-4 (File No. 333-49738), filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 13, 2000.  





Incorporated by reference to the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2001 (File No. 000-23621), filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 14, 2001. 





Incorporated by reference to the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2002 (File No. 000-23621), filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 13, 2002. 





Incorporated by reference to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 000-23621), filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 6, 2014.  





SIGNATURES 



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. 





