The accompanying unaudited financial statements of TransAct Technologies Incorporated (“TransAct”, the “Company”, “we”, “us”, or “our”) have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S.
Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by U.S. GAAP to be included in full year financial statements.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments considered necessary for a fair statement of the results for the periods presented have been included and are of a normal recurring nature.
These interim financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2018 included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Remaining performance obligations represent the transaction price of firm orders for which a good or service has not been delivered to our customer.
As of June 30, 2019, the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations was $4.3 million.As used in this Report, unless the context otherwise requires, references to “we”, “us”, “our”, the “Company” and “TransAct” refer to the consolidated operations of TransAct Technologies Incorporated, and its consolidated subsidiaries.
products are an all-in-one solution to help restaurants and food service operators of any size automate back-of-house operations.
We also offer world-class service, support, spare parts, accessories and printing supplies to our growing worldwide base of products currently in use by our customers.
Terminals over the balance of 2019 relating to these commitments.
In July 2019, TransAct announced that it has secured a new agreement with a large U.S. foodservice provider for the deployment of the BOHA!
hardware and software solutions by 2019 year end with an additional approximately 250 locations expected to go live over the following two years.
SaaS based apps and is expected to occur by the end of 2019.
We have reviewed those policies and determined that they remain our critical accounting policies for the six months ended June 30, 2019.
terminal sales to two large corporate customers in the second quarter of 2018 that did not reoccur in the second quarter of 2019. software recognized on a SaaS subscription basis increased by 24% in the second quarter of 2019 compared to the first quarter of 2019.
The decrease in both domestic and international POS automation and banking product revenue for the second quarter of 2019 compared to the second quarter of 2018 was primarily driven by a 26% decrease in sales of our Ithaca® 9000 printer, largely to McDonald’s.
During 2018 we had a large sale to an OEM which did not reoccur in 2019.The Company may, in the ordinary course of business, become a party to litigation involving collection matters, contract claims and other legal proceedings relating to the conduct of its business.