The accompanying unaudited financial statements of TransAct Technologies Incorporated (“TransAct”, the “Company”, “we”, “us”, or “our”) have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S.
Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by U.S. GAAP to be included in full year financial statements.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments considered necessary for a fair statement of the results for the periods presented have been included and are of a normal recurring nature.
These interim financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2018 included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Remaining performance obligations represent the transaction price of firm orders for which a good or service has not been delivered to our customer.
As of March 31, 2019, $199 thousand of the accrued product warranty liability were classified as current in "Accrued liabilities" in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and the remaining $54 thousand was classified as non-current in "Other liabilities".
These outstanding stock awards are not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the effect would be anti-dilutive.As used in this Report, unless the context otherwise requires, references to “we”, “us”, “our”, the “Company” and “TransAct” refer to the consolidated operations of TransAct Technologies Incorporated, and its consolidated subsidiaries.
We also offer world-class service, support, spare parts, accessories and printing supplies to our growing worldwide base of products currently in use by our customers.
We have reviewed those policies and determined that they remain our critical accounting policies for the three months ended March 31, 2019.
Printer, terminal and other hardware sales volume decreased 11% to approximately 28,000 units driven primarily by a 27% decrease in unit volume from the POS automation and banking market and a 5% decrease in unit volume in the casino and gaming market.
The decrease in domestic restaurant solutions revenue for the first quarter of 2019 compared to the first quarter of 2018 was driven largely by lower sales of our AccuDate 9700 terminal to our former U.S. distributor.
The decrease in domestic POS automation and banking product revenue for the first quarter of 2019 compared to the first quarter of 2018 was primarily driven by a 24% decrease in domestic sales of our Ithaca® 9000 printer, as sales to McDonald’s decreased for the first quarter of 2019 compared to the same period in 2018.
This increase was partially offset by a 70% decline in international sales of our off-premise gaming printers to Europe, Australia and Asia.
We expect domestic and international casino and gaming sales in 2019 to be relatively consistent with the sales levels achieved during 2018.
The increase in domestic revenue from TSG for the first quarter of 2019 as compared to the first quarter of 2018 was primarily due to an increase in label sales and increased service revenue related to our restaurant solutions products.
Additionally, we had a 18% increase in sales of our legacy HP inkjet cartridges used in our banking printers.Our management, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer (our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, respectively), evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of March 31, 2019.The Company may, in the ordinary course of business, become a party to litigation involving collection matters, contract claims and other legal proceedings relating to the conduct of its business.