Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by U.S. GAAP to be included in full year financial statements.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments considered necessary for a fair statement of the results for the periods presented have been included and are of a normal recurring nature.
These interim financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. Assets and liabilities of such subsidiary have been translated at the end of period exchange rates, and related revenues and expenses have been translated at the weighted average exchange rates with the resulting translation gain or loss recorded in “Accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax", in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
As of September 30, 2018, $197 thousand of the accrued product warranty liability is classified as current in "Accrued liabilities" in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and the remaining $98 thousand is classified as non-current in "Other liabilities".
These outstanding stock awards are not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the effect would be anti-dilutive.
For the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, there were 147 thousand and 382 thousand, respectively, of potentially dilutive shares consisting of stock awards that were excluded from the calculation of earnings per diluted share.As used in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, unless the context otherwise requires, references to “we”, “us”, “our”, the “Company” and “TransAct” refer to the consolidated operations of TransAct Technologies Incorporated, and its consolidated subsidiaries.
TransAct also provides world-class service, spare parts, accessories and printing supplies to its growing worldwide installed base of products.
We have reviewed those policies and determined that they remain our critical accounting policies for the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
Printer and terminal sales volume increased 12% to approximately 42 thousand units for the third quarter of 2018, driven primarily by a 73% increase in unit volume from the casino and gaming market and, to a lesser extent, a 9% increase in unit volume from the POS automation and banking market.
These increases were partially offset by a 74% decline in unit volume from the lottery market and, to a lesser extent, a 41% decline in unit volume from the restaurant solutions market.
The average selling price of our printers and terminals increased 4% in the third quarter of 2018 compared to the third quarter of 2017 due primarily to lower lottery printer sales, which sell at a lower price than our other products.
The decrease in domestic restaurant solutions terminal sales in the third quarter of 2018 compared to the third quarter of 2017 was driven by lower sales of our AccuDate 9700 terminal due to lower sales to McDonald's.
The increase in domestic POS automation and banking product revenue from the third quarter of 2017 was driven by a 22% increase in sales of our Ithaca® 9000 printer, as sales to McDonald’s have returned to the near record levels experienced during 2017.
The increase in domestic sales of our casino and gaming products was due to an 79% increase in domestic sales of our thermal casino printer sales in the third quarter of 2018 compared to the third quarter of 2017, driven primarily by a large order of replacement printers from a domestic casino operator, as well as increased sales to our OEMs.
These increases were partially offset by lower sales of our EPICENTRAL™ software systems as no new installations were completed during the third quarter of 2018 compared to two installations completed during the third quarter of 2017.
These increases were due to the success of the transition away from using our previous exclusive worldwide distributor whose contract ended at the end of 2017 and included a large non-recurring order to an international OEM that we don’t expect to reoccur in the fourth quarter of 2018.Our management, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer (our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, respectively), evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of September 30, 2018.The Company may, in the ordinary course of business, become a party to litigation involving collection matters, contract claims and other legal proceedings relating to the conduct of its business.