fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited financial statements of TransAct Technologies Incorporated (the "Company") have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP") for interim financial information.
Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by U.S. GAAP to be included in full year financial statements.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments considered necessary for a fair statement of the results for the periods presented have been included and are of a normal recurring nature.
These interim financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. Assets and liabilities of such subsidiary have been translated at the end of period exchange rates, and related revenues and expenses have been translated at the weighted average exchange rates with the resulting translation gain or loss recorded in "Accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax", in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
As of June 30, 2018, $208 thousand of the accrued product warranty liability is classified as current in "Accrued liabilities" in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and the remaining $95 thousand is classified as non-current in "Other liabilities".
These outstanding stock awards are not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the effect would be anti-dilutive.
For the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, there were 196 thousand and 407 thousand, respectively, of potentially dilutive shares consisting of stock awards that were excluded from the calculation of earnings per diluted share.
For the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, there were 147 thousand and 732 thousand, respectively, of potentially dilutive shares consisting of stock awards that were excluded from the calculation of earnings per diluted share.
For the three months ended June 30, 2017, dividends declared and paid totaled $663 thousand, or $0.09 per share.
The Company has not recorded any impacts of GILTI or BEAT in its consolidated financial statements for the quarter ended June 30, 2018.


item2.txt
As used in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, unless the context otherwise requires, references to "we", "us", "our", the "Company" and "TransAct" refer to the consolidated operations of TransAct Technologies Incorporated, and its consolidated subsidiaries.
We sell our products to original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"), value-added resellers ("VARs"), select distributors, as well as directly to end-users.
TransAct also provides world-class service, spare parts, accessories and printing supplies to its growing worldwide installed base of products.
We have reviewed those policies and determined that they remain our critical accounting policies for the six months ended June 30, 2018.
Printer and terminal sales volume increased 6% to approximately 39 thousand units driven primarily by an 81% increase in unit volume from the casino and gaming market and, to a lesser extent, a 14% increase in unit volume from the POS automation and banking market.
These increases were partially offset by an 83% decline in unit volume from the lottery market.
The average selling price of our printers and terminals increased 7% in the second quarter of 2018 compared to the second quarter of 2018 due primarily to lower lottery printer sales.
International sales for the second quarter of 2018 increased $2.3 million, or 221%, from the same period in 2017 due primarily to a 267% increase in sales in the international casino and gaming market.
This increase was partially offset by decreased sales of our AccuDate 9700 terminal to our former U.S. distributor during the second quarter of 2018 compared to the second quarter of 2017.
The increase in both domestic and international POS automation and banking product revenue from the second quarter of 2017 was driven by an 21% increase in sales of our Ithaca® 9000 printer, as sales to McDonald's have returned to the near record levels experienced during 2017.
The increase in domestic sales of our casino and gaming products was due to an 8% increase in domestic sales of our thermal casino printer sales in the second quarter of 2018 compared to the second quarter of 2017, driven primarily by increased sales to our OEMs.
We expect international sales of both our thermal casino printers and off-premise gaming printers to continue to increase in the second half of 2018, as we benefit from the transition to selling directly to slot machine manufacturers and end user casino and gaming customers in Europe.
The decrease in Non-Printrex consumables was partially offset by AccuDate label sales which nearly tripled in second quarter of 2018 compared to the second quarter of 2017.
In the second quarter of 2018, gross profit increased $561 thousand, or 9%, compared to the same period in 2017 and our gross margin improved slightly by 10 basis points.
Such expenses increased $163 thousand, or 16% in the second quarter of 2018 compared to the second quarter of 2017 due primarily to the hiring of additional engineering staff and increased prototype expenses to support new product development in the restaurant solutions and casino and gaming markets.
This increase was partially offset by the retirement of our EVP, Sales and Marketing in December 2017, whose position was replaced by an existing employee of TransAct, as well as the elimination of commission expense to our former international casino and gaming distributor, Suzo-Happ.
General and administrative expenses increased $41 thousand, or 2%, in the second quarter of 2018 compared to the second quarter of 2017 due primarily to higher incentive compensation expenses and legal expenses incurred during 2018.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Our management, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer (our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, respectively), evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of June 30, 2018.


part2.txt
The Company may, in the ordinary course of business, become a party to litigation involving collection matters, contract claims and other legal proceedings relating to the conduct of its business.


