fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited financial statements of TransAct Technologies Incorporated (the "Company") have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP") for interim financial information.
Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by U.S. GAAP to be included in full year financial statements.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments considered necessary for a fair statement of the results for the periods presented have been included and are of a normal recurring nature.
These interim financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. Assets and liabilities of such subsidiary have been translated at the end of period exchange rates, and related revenues and expenses have been translated at the weighted average exchange rates with the resulting translation gain or loss recorded in "Accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax", in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
As of March 31, 2018, $196 thousand of the accrued product warranty liability is classified as current in "Accrued liabilities" in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and the remaining $82 thousand is classified as non-current in "Other liabilities".
These outstanding stock awards are not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the effect would be anti-dilutive.
For the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, there were 147 thousand and 846 thousand, respectively, of potentially dilutive shares consisting of stock awards that were excluded from the calculation of earnings per diluted share.
For the three months ended March 31, 2017, dividends declared and paid totaled $587 thousand, or $0.08 per share.
SAB 118 provides a measurement period, not to exceed one year from the enactment of the Tax Reform Act.
The Company has not recorded any impacts of GILTI or BEAT in its consolidated financial statements for the quarter ended March 31, 2018.
2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), which sets out the principles for the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases for both parties to a contract (i.e., lessees and lessors).
This classification will determine whether lease expense is recognized based on an effective interest method or on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease, respectively.


item2.txt
As used in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, unless the context otherwise requires, references to "we", "us", "our", the "Company" and "TransAct" refer to the consolidated operations of TransAct Technologies Incorporated, and its consolidated subsidiaries.
TransAct also provides world-class service, spare parts, accessories and printing supplies to its growing worldwide installed base of products.
We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances.
We have reviewed those policies and determined that they remain our critical accounting policies for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
Printer and terminal sales volume decreased 28% to approximately 31 thousand units driven primarily by an 80% decrease in unit volume from the lottery market and a 29% decrease in unit volume in the POS automation and banking market.
These decreases were partially offset by increases in unit volume of 6% from the casino and gaming market and 87% from the restaurant solutions market.
We expect sales of our restaurant solutions terminals to increase in 2018 compared to 2017 as we benefit from the strategic selling and marketing investments implemented during 2017.
The decrease in domestic POS automation and banking product revenue in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the first quarter of 2017 was primarily driven by a 27% decrease in domestic sales of our Ithaca® 9000 printer, as sales to McDonald's slowed compared to the record pace experienced in 2016 and the first quarter of 2017.
The increase in domestic sales of our casino and gaming products was due largely to a 19% increase in domestic sales of our thermal casino printers in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the first quarter of 2017, driven primarily by increased sales to our OEMs.
Additionally, domestic EPICENTRAL™ software sales increased 233% in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the first quarter of 2017 as we completed one new installation in 2018 compared to no installations completed during the first quarter of 2017. International casino and gaming product sales decreased in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the first quarter of 2017 due to a 32% decline in international sales of our off-premise gaming printers to Europe, Australia and Asia.
We expect international sales of both our thermal casino printers and off-premise gaming printers to increase in 2018 as we benefit from the transition away from our previous exclusive worldwide distributor whose contract ended at the end of 2017 and begin to sell directly to our slot machine manufacturers and end user casino and gaming customers in Europe.
The decrease in domestic revenue from TSG for the first quarter of 2018 as compared to the prior year period was due to decreased replacement part sales, service revenue and non-Printrex consumable product sales of 7%, 11% and 6%, respectively.
These decreases were partially offset by a 34% increase in Printrex consumables related to the recovery in the oil and gas market.
Internationally, revenue from TSG increased slightly in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the first quarter of 2017 due to higher international replacement part sales.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Our management, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer (our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, respectively), evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of March 31, 2018.


part2.txt
The Company may, in the ordinary course of business, become a party to litigation involving collection matters, contract claims and other legal proceedings relating to the conduct of its business.
Item 1A.


