fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited financial statements of TransAct Technologies Incorporated (“TransAct”, the “Company”, “we”, “us”, or “our”) have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S.
Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by U.S. GAAP to be included in full year financial statements.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments considered necessary for a fair statement of the results for the periods presented have been included and are of a normal recurring nature.
These interim financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2018 included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K.
We have reclassified sales of labels and other recurring revenue items related to restaurant solutions, which includes extended warranty and service contracts, and technical support services, previously included in TSG to Restaurant Solutions for all periods presented in the tables below.
Remaining performance obligations represent the transaction price of firm orders for which a good or service has not been delivered to our customer.
Notes receivable are stated at unpaid balances and interest income is recognized on the accrual method.
As of September 30, 2019, $176 thousand of the accrued product warranty liability was classified as current in "Accrued liabilities" in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and the remaining $45 thousand was classified as non-current in "Other liabilities".
The TD Bank Credit Facility imposes certain quarterly financial covenants on us and restricts, among other things, our ability to incur additional indebtedness and the creation of other liens.


item2.txt
As used in this Report, unless the context otherwise requires, references to “we”, “us”, “our”, the “Company” and “TransAct” refer to the consolidated operations of TransAct Technologies Incorporated, and its consolidated subsidiaries.
products are an all-in-one solution to help restaurants and food service operators of any size automate back-of-house operations.
We also offer world-class service, support, spare parts, accessories and printing supplies to our growing worldwide base of products currently in use by our customers.
Terminals over the balance of 2019 relating to these commitments.
In July 2019, TransAct announced that it secured a new agreement with a large U.S. foodservice provider for the deployment of BOHA!
SaaS-based apps at more than 400 locations by 2021 year end.
hardware and software solutions by 2019 year end with an additional approximately 250 locations expected to go live over the following two years.
Labeling SaaS-based app and TransAct Enterprise Management System (TEMS) over the next 12 months, with an additional 15 locations to follow over time.
We have reviewed those policies and determined that they remain our critical accounting policies for the nine months ended September 30, 2019.
The average selling price of our printers, terminals and other hardware increased 3% during the third quarter of 2019 compared to the third quarter of 2018 due primarily to a lower level of lottery printer sales and POS automation and banking printer sales, which sell at a lower price than our other products.
software recognized on a SaaS subscription basis, labels and other recurring revenue increased by 267%, including an over 250% increase in label sales and a ten-fold increase in software sales (though off of a low base in the third quarter of 2018) in the third quarter of 2019 compared to the third quarter of 2018.
The decrease in both domestic and international POS automation and banking product revenue for the third quarter of 2019 compared to the third quarter of 2018 was primarily driven by a 26% decrease in sales of our Ithaca® 9000 printer, largely to McDonald’s.
These decreases were partially offset by slightly higher revenue from recurring EPICENTRALTM annual software maintenance fees during the third quarter of 2019 compared to the third quarter of 2018.
The decrease in international sales of our casino and gaming products in the third quarter of 2019 compared to the third quarter of 2018 was due to a 20% decrease in sales of our thermal casino printers due primarily to lower sales to a large OEM in Europe.
The decrease was partially offset by 37% higher international sales of our off-premise gaming printers during the third quarter of 2019 compared to the third quarter of 2018, primarily to an OEM in Europe for sports betting, as well as stronger sales in Australia.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the company’s management, including its principal executive and principal financial officers, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
We also determined that these material weaknesses existed as of December 31, 2018, March 31, 2019, and June 30, 2019.


part2.txt
The Company may, in the ordinary course of business, become a party to litigation involving collection matters, contract claims and other legal proceedings relating to the conduct of its business.
Information regarding risk factors appears under Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
The U.K. is currently negotiating the terms of Brexit, the negotiation period of which has now been extended up to January 31, 2020, unless further extension is agreed to by the parties.


