In the Electronic Materials segment, our CMP slurries revenue declined this quarter due primarily to softer market conditions, particularly in the memory, but also in the foundry, sectors. Our CMP slurries play a critical role in enabling DRAM and NAND production and this quarter our business was adversely impacted as our customers reduced utilization rates to address higher chip inventories and falling memory prices. In CMP pads, we delivered another quarter of strong results. In electronic chemicals, we saw stable demand this quarter. Looking ahead, recent reports from customers and industry analysts suggest there is still some level of uncertainty in overall semiconductor industry demand given the weakness in certain end markets, but most believe there will be some level of recovery in the second half of calendar 2019. We remain confident about growth in our business from increased future demand for global semiconductor materials, and believe we will continue to benefit from increased device complexity and growing computing power and storage requirements, which translates to additional demand for consumable materials. 
In our Performance Materials segment, we recorded strong revenue, driven by results in our pipeline performance business. With continued growth expected in U.S. oil production, primarily in the Permian basin as well as expansion internationally, we continue to experience strong demand for our drag-reducing agents, which enable pipeline operators to optimize the efficiency and throughput of oil transport. 
Revenue for our second quarter of fiscal 2019 was $265.4 million, which benefited from the acquisition of KMG and represented an increase of 85.6% from the same quarter of fiscal 2018. 
Net income was $27.1 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2019, which represented a decrease of 8.7% from the same quarter of fiscal 2018. Results benefited from the acquisition of KMG, but were more than offset by acquisition-related expenses, a charge for the fair value write-up of acquired inventory sold, increased amortization and depreciation associated with re-valuing KMG assets to fair value, and higher interest expenses resulting from the debt borrowing to finance the Acquisition. For the same reasons, diluted earnings per share decreased from $1.14 in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 to $0.92 in the current quarter.  
Adjusted EBITDA was $85.5 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2019. This represents an increase of $41.9 million, or a 96.0% increase from the same quarter of fiscal 2018. Adjusted EBITDA benefited from the addition of the KMG businesses and improved profitability in the Company’s heritage businesses. Refer to the “Use of certain GAAP and Non-GAAP Financial Information” section below for the calculation of adjusted EBITDA. Adjusted EBITDA margin, which represents adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of revenue, was 32.2% for the second quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to 30.5% for the same quarter of fiscal 2018. 
Revenue was $265.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, which represented an 85.6%, or $122.4 million, increase from the three months ended March 31, 2018, primarily due to the Acquisition. Revenue from Cabot Microelectronics’ heritage businesses decreased slightly by $0.7 million, or 0.5%, primarily due to lower sales volume, partially offset by a higher value product mix and price changes. 
Total cost of sales was $150.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, which represented an increase of 121.6%, or $82.6 million, from the three months ended March 31, 2018, primarily due to the Acquisition. The cost of sales from Cabot Microelectronics’ heritage businesses decreased by $3.2 million, primarily driven by lower sales volume. 
Total research, development and technical expenses were $12.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, which represented a decrease of 4.4%, or $0.6 million, from the three months ended March 31, 2018. The decrease was primarily due to lower staffing-related costs of $0.9 million, including incentive compensation costs. 
  ●  Research related to fundamental CMP technology;      
  ●  Development of new and enhanced CMP consumable products, including collaboration on joint development projects with technology-leading customers and suppliers;      
  ●  Technical support of CMP products in our customers’ research, development and manufacturing facilities; and,      
  ●  Development of polishing and metrology applications outside of the semiconductor industry.      
Interest expense was $13.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, which represented an increase of $12.2 million from the three months ended March 31, 2018. The increase resulted from the debt borrowing to finance the Acquisition. 
Interest income was $0.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, which represented a decrease of 50.9%, or $0.6 million from the three months ended March 31, 2018 due to lower cash balances compared to the same period last year. 
Other expense was $1.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, which represented an increase of $0.9 million, from the three months ended March 31, 2018. The change was primarily due to the absence of the gain on sale of assets that had occurred in the second quarter of fiscal 2018. 
 Net income was $27.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, which represented a decrease of 8.7%, or $2.6 million, from the three months ended March 31, 2018. Net income benefited from the addition of the KMG businesses, and was partially offset by acquisition and integration-related expenses, a charge for fair value write-up of acquired inventory sold, increased amortization and depreciation associated with re-valuing KMG assets to fair value, and higher interest expenses resulting from the debt borrowing to finance the Acquisition.  
Revenue was $487.2 million for the six months ended March 31, 2019, which represented a 72.2%, or $204.2 million increase from the six months ended March 31, 2018. The increase in revenue was primarily due to the Acquisition. Revenue from Cabot Microelectronics’ heritage businesses increased by $19.1 million, or 6.7%. This increase was primarily driven by a higher value product mix, selected price increases and higher sales volume. 
Total research, development and technical expenses were $26.8 million for the six months ended March 31, 2019, which represented an increase of 5.1%, or $1.3 million, from the six months ended March 31, 2018. The increase was primarily due to higher supplies and equipment costs used in research and development of $1.1 million. 
Interest expense was $20.2 million for the six months ended March 31, 2019, which represented an increase of 783.0%, or $17.9 million for the six months ended March 31, 2018. The increase resulted from the debt borrowing to finance the Acquisition. 
Interest income was $1.6 million for the six months ended March 31, 2019, which represented a decrease of 24.7%, or $0.5 million for the six months ended March 31, 2018 due to lower cash balances. 
Other expense was $2.4 million for the six months ended March 31, 2019, which represented an increase of 550.1%, or $2.1 million, from the six months ended March 31, 2018. The change was primarily due to the absence of the gain on sale of assets that occurred in the second quarter of fiscal 2018. 
Net income was $40.6 million for the six months ended March 31, 2019, which represented an increase of 52.2%, or $13.9 million, from the six months ended March 31, 2018. The increase was primarily due to the absence of the adverse impact of the Tax Act in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, the addition of the KMG businesses post-Acquisition, and higher revenue and profitability within our heritage businesses. These items were partially offset by acquisition and integration-related expenses, a charge for fair value write-up of acquired inventory sold, increased amortization and depreciation associated with re-valuing KMG assets to fair value, and higher interest expenses resulting from the debt borrowing to finance the Acquisition. 
The $134.0 million increase in Electronic Materials revenue was driven by the addition of KMG’s electronic chemicals business since the Acquisition. The remaining increase was driven by strong organic demand for the Company’s heritage CMP slurries and polishing pads product lines, which increased 3% and 22%, respectively, primarily on higher sales volume. Electronic Materials adjusted EBITDA increased from the prior year driven by the addition of KMG’s electronic chemicals results, as well as stronger organic profitability, driven by the leverage achieved on higher sales volume. The slightly lower adjusted EBITDA margin was primarily due to change in mix of products, as a result of the Acquisition. 
The $70.2 million increase in Performance Materials revenue was primarily driven by the addition of KMG’s performance materials business post-Acquisition. Performance Materials’ adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA margin expanded from the prior year due to the addition of KMG’s heritage performance materials business. 
Adjusted EBITDA margin is defined as adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of revenue. Adjusted EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization, adjusted for certain items that affect comparability from period to period. These adjustments include items related to our acquisition of KMG, such as expenses incurred to complete the acquisition, integration related expenses, and impact of fair value adjustments to inventory acquired from KMG. 
Adjusted EBITDA for the Electronic Materials and Performance Materials segments is presented in conformity with Accounting Standards Codification Topic 280, Segment Reporting. This measure is reported to the chief operating decision maker for purposes of making decisions about allocating resources to the segments and assessing their performance. For these reasons, this measure is excluded from the definition of non-GAAP financial measures under the SEC Regulation G and Item 10(e) of Regulation S-K. 
In the first six months of fiscal 2019, cash flows used in investing activities were $1,197 million, compared to $5.9 million in cash used in investing activities in the first six months of fiscal 2018. The increase was driven by the use of $1,182 million for the Acquisition. The remainder of the purchase price was satisfied with the issuance of common stock. Capital expenditures in the first six months were $19.5 million, compared to $8.8 million in the prior year. 
In the first six months of fiscal 2019, cash flows used in financing activities were $982.3 million, compared to $8.6 million used in financing activities in the six months ended March 31, 2018. During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we received $1,044 million in debt proceeds, net of $21.4 million in debt issuance costs and original issue discount fees, which was used for the Acquisition. In March 2019, we made a $45 million repayment on this debt, an increase of $38 million in debt repayment compared to prior year. In addition, our dividend payments increased by $12 million versus the prior year, driven by the doubling of our quarterly dividend, as announced in March 2018, and the new shares issued in connection with the KMG acquisition. 
On the Acquisition Date, we entered into a credit agreement by and among the Company, the lenders party thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent (the “Credit Agreement”), which provides for senior secured financing of up to $1,265.0 million, consisting of a term loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of $1,065.0 million (the “Term Loan Facility”) and a revolving credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of up to $200.0 million, including a letter of credit sub-facility of up to $50.0 million (the “Revolving Credit Facility”). The Term Loan Facility and the Revolving Credit Facility are referred to as the “Credit Facilities.” The Company may generally prepay outstanding loans under the Credit Facilities at any time, without prepayment premium or penalty, subject to customary “breakage” costs with respect to LIBOR rate loans. Prepayments of the Term Loan Facility in connection with certain “repricing events” resulting in a lower yield occurring at any time during the first six months after the Acquisition Date must be accompanied by a 1.00% prepayment premium. The Revolving Credit Facility requires that the Company maintain a maximum first lien secured net leverage ratio, as defined in the Credit Agreement, of 4.00 to 1.00 as of the last day of each fiscal quarter if any revolving loans are outstanding, commencing with the first full fiscal quarter after the Acquisition Date. Additionally, the Credit Agreement contains certain affirmative and negative covenants that limit the ability of the Company, among other things and subject to certain significant exceptions, to incur debt or liens, make investments, enter into certain mergers, consolidations, asset sales and acquisitions, pay dividends and make other restricted payments and enter into transactions with affiliates. The Credit Agreement also contains customary affirmative covenants and events of default. We believe we are in compliance with these covenants. In the second quarter of fiscal 2019, we entered into a floating-to-fixed interest rate swap agreement to hedge the variability in our LIBOR-based interest payments on approximately 70% of our Team Loan balance. During this quarter we made a prepayment of $45.0 million, and subsequent to the end of the quarter we made an additional $55.0 million prepayment. See Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of this Report on Form 10-Q for additional information regarding the Credit Agreement. 
At March 31, 2019 and September 30, 2018, we did not have any unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which might have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements. 
We have been operating under a multi-year supply agreement with Cabot Corporation, which is not a related party and has not been one since 2002, for the purchase of fumed silica, the current term of which runs through December 31, 2019. Purchase obligations include an aggregate amount of $11.1 million of contractual commitments related to our Cabot Corporation supply agreement for fumed silica. 
Interest payments on long-term debt reflect interest rates in effect at December 31, 2018. The interest payments reflect variable LIBOR-based rates currently in effect on $274 million of our outstanding debt, and fixed rates on $746 million of outstanding debt for which we have implemented an interest rate swap. Commitment fees are based on our estimated consolidated leverage ratio in future periods. See Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of this Report on Form 10-Q for additional information regarding our long-term debt. 
• Application of the acquisition method of accounting; 
• Elimination of transaction costs incurred in connection with the Acquisition; 
• Adjustments to reflect the new financing arrangements entered into and legacy financing arrangements retired in connection with the Acquisition; 
• The exchange of 0.2000 share(s) of Cabot Microelectronics common stock for each share of KMG common stock; and 
• Conformance of accounting policies. 
The Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Financial Information was prepared using the acquisition method of accounting, which requires, among other things, that assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination be recognized at their fair values as of the completion of the acquisition. We utilized estimated fair values at the Acquisition Date to allocate the total consideration exchanged to the net tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed. This allocation was initially completed as of November 15, 2018. The allocation may be adjusted for up to one-year post closing. 
The historical consolidated financial information has been adjusted in the accompanying Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Statements of Income to give effect to unaudited pro forma events that are (1) directly attributable to the transaction, (2) factually supportable and (3) are expected to have a continuing impact on the results of operations of the combined company. As a result, under SEC Regulation S-X Article 11, certain non-recurring expenses such as deal costs and compensation expenses related to severance or accelerated stock compensation and certain recurring historical KMG expenses related to depreciation, amortization, financing costs and costs of sales have been adjusted as if the Acquisition had occurred on October 1, 2017. Certain non-cash costs related to the fair value step-up of inventory are eliminated from pro forma results in the periods presented. In contrast, under the ASC 805 presentation in Note 4, Business Combination, to the consolidated financial statements, these expenses are required to be included in prior year pro forma results. 
Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Statement of Income 
For the Three and Six Months Ended March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2018 
Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Statement of Income 
For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 
  1 Pro forma adjustments are related to non-recurring items directly attributable to the transaction as well as recurring differences related to depreciation, amortization or financing costs that were included as if the companies were combined as of October 1, 2017.      
Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Statement of Income 
For the Six Months Ended March 31, 2019 
  1 Includes heritage Cabot Microelectronics from October 1, 2018 to March 31, 2019 and heritage KMG from November 15, 2018 to March 31, 2019. On November 15, 2018 the Acquisition was completed and actual combined company results are included.   
  2 Heritage KMG results that occurred prior to the Acquisition on November 15, 2018   
  4 Certain pro forma adjustments related to depreciation, amortization, financing costs and costs of sales have been made for the October 1, 2018 to March 31, 2019 period assuming that the Acquisition occurred on October 1, 2017. Additionally, nonrecurring pro forma adjustments have been made for deal costs, compensation expenses related to severance or accelerated stock compensation, and the fair value step-up of inventory directly attributable throughout the six month period.     
Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Statement of Income 
For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 
  2 Pro forma adjustments are related to non-recurring items directly attributable to the transaction as well as recurring differences related to depreciation, amortization or financing costs that were included as if the companies were combined as of October 1, 2017.     
  2 Pro forma adjustments are related to non-recurring items directly attributable to the transaction as well as recurring differences related to depreciation, amortization or financing costs that were included as if the companies were combined as of October 1, 2017.     
Summary of Pro Forma Adjustments 
We calculated the income tax effect of the pro forma adjustments using a 21.6% and 23.4% tax rate, which represent the weighted average statutory tax rate for six-month period ended March 31, 2019 and year-ended September 30, 2018, respectively. 
Additionally, for the 2018 periods presented, we calculated the unaudited pro forma weighted average number of basic shares outstanding by adding the Cabot Microelectronics weighted average number of basic shares outstanding from the share amounts disclosed in the historical Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q to the amount of shares issued in connection with the Acquisition, as if the shares were held for the entire period. 
The basic and diluted EPS calculation takes pro forma net income divided by the applicable number of shares outstanding. 
Cabot Microelectronics Corporation 
Reconciliation of Pro Forma and Non-GAAP Adjusted Pro Forma Information 
Removal of amortization of acquisition related intangibles, since management believes that these costs are not indicative of the company’s core operating performance.     
Removes the difference between reported GAAP interest expense and Article 11 pro forma interest expense, which is prepared as if the acquisition occurred on October 1, 2017. This adjustment is made for periods when Cabot Microelectronics owned KMG for the full reporting period.     
Adjustment for U.S. Tax Reform, which represents a significant non-recurring item affecting comparability among periods.     
Reconciliations for these items are provided in the tables below. 
Statement of Income to Non-GAAP Adjust Pro Forma Condensed 
Combined Statement of Income 
For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 
Statement of Income to Non-GAAP Adjust Pro Forma Condensed 
Combined Statement of Income 
For the Six Months Ended March 31, 2019 
Statement of Income to Non-GAAP Adjust Pro Forma Condensed 
Combined Statement of Income 
For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 
Statement of Income to Non-GAAP Adjust Pro Forma Condensed 
Combined Statement of Income 
In January 2016, our Board of Directors authorized an increase in the amount available under our share repurchase program to $150.0 million. As of March 31, 2019, $81.3 million remained outstanding under our share repurchase program. We did not repurchase any shares under this program during the first two quarters of fiscal 2019. The manner in which the Company repurchases its shares is discussed in Part I, Item 2, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, under the heading “Liquidity and Capital Resources”, of this Report on Form 10-Q. To date, we have funded share purchases under our share repurchase program from our available cash balance, and anticipate we will continue to do so. 
