The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Cabot Microelectronics and its subsidiaries. All intercompany transactions and balances between the companies have been eliminated as of December 31, 2018. 
Significant Accounting Policies and Estimates 
Except for the discussion on revenue recognition below, no material changes have been made to the Company’s significant accounting policies disclosed in Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018. 
We have determined that the effect of applying the new revenue standards during the quarter ended December 31, 2018 was immaterial to our financial statements compared to revenue guidance in effect before the adoption of the new revenue standards. As a result, for the quarter ended December 31, 2018, we are not disclosing the quantitative amount by which each financial statement line item is affected by the application of the new revenue standards. 
As part of the adoption of ASU 606, the Company elected to use certain allowed practical expedients. For the Company’s contracts that have an original duration of one year or less as of the adoption date, the Company uses the practical expedient applicable to such contracts and does not consider the time value of money. Further, because of the short duration of these contracts, the Company has not disclosed the transaction price for the future performance obligations as of the end of each reporting period for contracts having an expected duration of one year or less. See Note 3. for disaggregated revenue, the reconciliation of contract balances and transaction price allocation to remaining performance obligations for contracts expected to remain effective beyond one year. 
Performance Obligations and Material Rights 
At contract inception, the Company assesses the goods and services promised in its contracts with customers and identifies a performance obligation for each material promise to the customer. A performance obligation is a promise in a contract to transfer a distinct good or service, or a bundle of goods or services, to the customer, and is the unit of accounting under ASC 606. A contract’s transaction price is allocated to each distinct performance obligation and recognized as revenue when, or as, the performance obligation is satisfied. A majority of the Company’s contracts have a single performance obligation which represents, in most cases, the products, equipment or services being sold to the customer. Some contracts include multiple performance obligations including prospective tiered price discounts or delivery of free product that we have concluded represents a material right. Contracts with prospective tiered price discounts require judgment in determining if that discount represents a material right. 
Contracts vary in length and payment terms vary by the type and location of the Company’s customers and the products or services offered. However, the term between invoicing and when payment is due is typically not significant and has no significant financing components. Customers pay in accordance with negotiated terms upon receipt of goods or completion of services. For these contracts, the transaction price is determined upon establishment of the contract that contains the final terms of the sale, including the description, quantity, and price of goods or services purchased. In certain instances, we receive consideration from a customer prior to transferring goods or services to the customer under the terms of a sales contract. In such cases, we record deferred revenue until the performance obligation is satisfied, which represents a contract liability, and is included in the contract liabilities discussed in Note 3 of this Form 10-Q. 
The Company recognizes revenue related to product sales at a point in time following the transfer of control of such products to the customer, which generally occurs upon shipment, or delivery depending on the terms of the underlying contracts. The Company considers control to have transferred upon shipment or delivery because the Company has a present right to payment at that time, the customer has legal title to the asset, the Company has transferred physical possession of the asset, and the customer has significant risks and rewards of ownership of the asset. Revenue is recognized on consignment sales when control transfers to the customer, generally at the point of customer usage of the product. The Company also records revenue for services provided to the pipeline and oilfield energy industries. These services include preventive maintenance, repair and specialized isolation sealing on pipelines and training. Revenue is recorded at a point in time when the services are completed as this is when right to payment and customer acceptance occurs. 
For sales contracts that contain multiple performance obligations, the Company allocates the transaction price to each performance obligation identified in the contract based on relative standalone selling prices or estimates of such prices. Standalone selling price, once established, is then used to allocate total consideration proportionally to the various performance obligations within a contract. Most contracts where we have determined there to be multiple performance obligations relate to where we have identified a material right to exist such that we provide prospective tiered pricing discounts or free product. When we invoice for products shipped under these contracts, we defer the revenue associated with these rights on the balance sheet as a contract liability. Revenue is recognized when the customer exercises the option to purchase goods at a discount in the case of the prospective tiered pricing discounts or when we ship the free product. 
The primary type of variable consideration present in the Company’s contracts are rebates and early payment discounts, both of which are immaterial. Early payment discounts are offered on a limited basis and are not significant. The Company also offers rebates based upon cumulative volume of purchases within a quarter and accrues for the rebate obligation within the quarter that the rebate is earned. ASC 606 did not change the accounting for rebates under ASC 605. 
Costs to Obtain and Fulfill a Contract 
 For certain contracts within the Performance Materials segment, commissions are paid to sales agents based upon a percentage of end-customer invoice value. Agents are paid the commissions after funds are received by the Company from its customers. Under ASC 340, sales commissions are required to be capitalized and expensed over the associated contract period. However, as a practical expedient, the Company does not capitalize commissions as the associated contracts are generally one year or less in duration. For shipping and handling activities performed after a customer obtains control of the goods, the Company has elected to account for these costs as activities to fulfill the promise to transfer the goods and included in cost of sales. 
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, "Leases" (Topic 842). The provisions of ASU 2016-02 require a dual approach for lessee accounting under which a lessee would recognize a right-of-use asset and a corresponding lease liability. Leases will be classified as either finance or operating leases. For finance leases, a lessee will recognize interest expense and amortization of the right-of-use asset, and for operating leases, the lessee will recognize a straight-line total lease expense. The guidance also requires qualitative and specific quantitative disclosures to supplement the amounts recorded in the financial statements, to afford better understanding of an entity's leasing activities, including any significant judgments and estimates. ASU 2016-02 will be effective for us beginning October 1, 2019, but early adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of implementation of this standard on our financial statements. 
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13, "Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments" (Topic 326). The provisions of this standard require financial assets measured at amortized cost to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected. An allowance account would be established to present the net carrying value at the amount expected to be collected. ASU 2016-13 also provides that credit losses relating to available-for-sale debt securities should be recorded through an allowance for credit losses. ASU 2016-13 will be effective for us beginning October 1, 2020, but early adoption is permitted as of October 1, 2019. We are currently evaluating the impact of implementation of this standard on our financial statements. 
In March 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-07 "Improving the Presentation of Net Period Pension Cost and Net Period Postretirement Benefit Cost" (Topic 715). The provisions of ASU 2017-07 provided specific guidance on the presentation of the components of net benefit cost. We adopted this standard ASU 2017-07 effective October 1, 2018 and applied it retrospectively. Pursuant to the adoption, net service costs are recorded as fringe benefit expense under cost of goods sold and operating expenses, and all other costs are recorded in the Other income (expense), net in our Consolidated Statements of Income (Loss). The impact of the retrospective adoption in fiscal 2018 is not material and therefore not reflected. 
In May 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-09 "Scope of Modification Accounting" (Topic 718). The provisions of ASU 2017-09 provide specific guidance about which changes to the term or conditions of a share-based payment require an entity to apply modification accounting. We adopted ASU 2017-09 effective October 1, 2018 and will apply this new standard to the share-based compensation awards, to the extent modified. 
In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-12 "Derivatives and Hedging" (Topic 815). The provisions of this standard amend the hedge accounting model in ASC 815 to expand an entity's ability to hedge nonfinancial and financial risk components, reduce complexity in fair value hedges of interest rate risk, eliminate the requirement to separately measure and report hedge ineffectiveness, and generally require the entire change in the fair value of a hedging instrument to be presented in the same income statement line as the hedged item. The guidance also eases certain documentation and assessment requirements and modifies the accounting for components excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness. ASU 2017-12 will be effective for us beginning October 1, 2019, but early adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of implementation of this standard on our financial statements. 
Disaggregation of Revenue 
The Company disaggregates revenue by product area and segment as it best depicts the nature and amount of the Company’s revenue. 
Reconciliation of Contract Liability Balances 
The contract liability balances as of October 1, 2018 in the table above include the amounts recorded upon the adoption of ASC 606. At December 31, 2018, the current portion of contract liabilities of $5,091 is included in accrued liabilities, taxes payable and other current liabilities and the noncurrent portion of $1,446 is included in other long-term liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The amount of revenue recognized during the three months ended December 31, 2018 that were included in the opening current contract liability balances in our Performance Materials segment were $2,153. The amount of revenue recognized during the three months ended December 31, 2018 that was included in our opening contract liability balances in our Electronic Materials segment was not material. 
Transaction Price Allocated to Remaining Performance Obligations 
The table below discloses (1) the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to performance obligations that are unsatisfied (or partially unsatisfied) as of the end of the reporting period for contracts with an original duration of greater than one year and (2) when the Company expects to recognize this revenue. 
On the Acquisition Date, the Company completed its acquisition of 100% of the outstanding stock of KMG, which was a publicly held company headquartered in Fort Worth, Texas. KMG specializes in producing and distributing electronic chemicals for the semiconductor industry and performance materials for the industrial wood preservation, pipeline and energy industries. We acquired KMG to extend and strengthen our position as one of the leading suppliers of consumable materials to the semiconductor industry and to expand our portfolio with the addition of KMG’s performance materials business, which we believe will enable us to be a leading global provider of performance products and services to the pipeline operations and energy industries. The purchase consideration was $1,513,235, including consideration transferred of $1,536,452, less cash acquired of $23,217. The consideration was comprised of cash consideration to KMG common shareholders and equity award holders, stock consideration to KMG common shareholders and equity award holders, and cash consideration in the form of the retirement of KMG’s preexisting debt obligations. Under the terms of the definitive agreement to acquire KMG, each share of KMG common stock was converted into the right to receive $55.65 in cash and 0.2000 of a share of Cabot Microelectronics common stock. As a result, we issued 3,237,005 shares of our common stock to KMG’s common stockholders, with a stock price of $102.27 on the Acquisition Date. In connection with the Acquisition, we entered into a credit agreement (the “Credit Agreement”), which provided us with a seven-year, $1,065,000 term loan facility (the “Term Loan Facility”), which we drew on the Acquisition Date to fund the Acquisition along with cash on hand, and a five-year, $200,000 revolving credit facility (the “Revolving Credit Facility”), which has not been drawn. In connection with the borrowing, we incurred $21,408 in debt issuance costs and original issue discount fees, $859 of which relates to the Revolving Credit Facility and is recorded as a prepaid asset, and the remaining $20,549 in debt issuance costs relates to the Term Loan Facility and is presented as a reduction of long-term debt. These debt issuance costs are amortized and recorded in Interest expense in the Consolidated Statements of Income (Loss) over the life of the Revolving Credit Facility and Term Loan Facility, respectively. See below for a summary of the different components that comprise the total consideration. 
The fair values of identifiable assets and liabilities acquired were developed with the assistance of a third-party valuation firm. The fair value of acquired property, plant and equipment is primarily valued at its “value-in-use.” The fair value of acquired identifiable intangible assets was determined using the “income approach” on an individual asset basis. The key assumptions used in the calculation of the discounted cash flows include projected revenue, gross margin, operating expenses, discount rate and customer attrition. The valuations and the underlying assumptions have been deemed reasonable by the Company’s management. There are inherent uncertainties and management judgment required in these determinations. 
Customer relationships represent the estimated fair value of the underlying relationships and agreements with KMG’s customers and are being amortized on an accelerated basis in order for the expense to most accurately match the periods of highest cash flows attributable to the identified relationships. Technology and know-how represent the estimated fair value of KMG’s technology, processes and knowledge regarding its product offerings, and are being amortized on a straight-line basis. Trade names represents the estimated fair value of the brand and name recognition associated with the marketing of KMG’s product offerings and are being amortized on a straight-line basis, except for the Flowchem trade name, which KMG acquired when it acquired Flowchem Holdings LLC in 2017, and which we believe has an indefinite life. These intangible assets are capitalized and accounted for as indefinite-lived intangible assets and will be subject to impairment testing. The intangible assets subject to amortization have a weighted average useful life of 17.9 years. 
The excess of consideration transferred over the fair value of net assets acquired was recorded as goodwill, and is not deductible for income tax purposes. The goodwill is primarily attributable to anticipated revenue growth from the combined company product portfolio, expected synergies of the combined company, and the assembled workforce of KMG. The preliminary allocation of goodwill to each of the Electronic Materials and Performance Materials segments as a result of this Acquisition was $263,208 and $341,920, respectively. 
KMG’s results of operations have been included in our unaudited Consolidated Statements of Income (Loss) and Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income from the Acquisition Date. Net sales of the acquired KMG business since the Acquisition Date through December 31, 2018 were $62,001. KMG’s net loss since the Acquisition Date was $14,174, which includes $25,661 of acquisition related costs, net of tax, as well as additional amortization and depreciation expense associated with recording KMG’s net assets at fair value. 
The following unaudited supplemental pro forma information summarizes the combined results of operations for Cabot Microelectronics and KMG as if the Acquisition had occurred on October 1, 2017. 
Non-recurring transaction costs of $29,326.     
Non-recurring accelerated stock compensation expense of $10,316.     
Non-recurring retention and severance expense of $25,461.     
The historical financial information has been adjusted by applying the Company’s accounting policies and giving effect to the pro forma adjustments, which consist of (i) amortization expense associated with identified intangible assets; (ii) depreciation of fixed asset step-up; (iii) accretion of inventory step-up value; (iv) the elimination of interest expense on pre-acquisition KMG debt and replacement of interest expense related to the acquisition-related financing; (v) transaction-related costs; (vi) accelerated share-based compensation expense; (vii) retention and severance expense incurred as a direct result of the acquisition; and (viii) an adjustment to tax-effect the aforementioned unaudited pro forma adjustments using an estimated weighted-average effective income tax rate of each entity and the jurisdictions to which the above adjustments relate. The pro forma consolidated results are not necessarily indicative of what the consolidated results actually would have been had the Acquisition been completed on October 1, 2017. The pro forma consolidated results do not purport to project future results of combined operations, nor do they reflect the expected realization of any revenue or cost synergies associated with the Acquisition. 
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received from the sale of an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) established a three-level hierarchy for disclosure based on the extent and level of judgment used to estimate fair value. Level 1 inputs consist of valuations based on quoted market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level 2 inputs consist of valuations based on quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in an inactive market, or other observable inputs. Level 3 inputs consist of valuations based on unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity. 
The following table presents financial instruments, other than long-term debt, that we measured at fair value on a recurring basis at December 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018. See Note 10 for a detailed discussion of our long-term debt. We have classified the following assets and liabilities in accordance with the fair value hierarchy set forth in the applicable standards. In instances where the inputs used to measure the fair value of an asset fall into more than one level of the hierarchy, we have classified them based on the lowest-level input that is significant to the determination of the fair value.  
Our cash and cash equivalents consist of various bank accounts used to support our operations and investments in institutional money-market funds that are traded in active markets. We invest only in AAA-rated, prime institutional money market funds, comprised of high quality, short-term fixed income securities. Our other long-term investments represent the fair value of investments under the Cabot Microelectronics Supplemental Employee Retirement Plan (SERP), which is a nonqualified supplemental savings plan. The fair value of the investments is determined through quoted market prices within actively traded markets. Although the investments are allocated to individual participants and investment decisions are made solely by those participants, the SERP is a nonqualified plan. Consequently, the Company owns the assets and the related offsetting liability for disbursement until a participant makes a qualifying withdrawal. The long-term investment was adjusted to $1,242 in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 to reflect its fair value as of December 31, 2018. 
The fair value of our derivative instruments is estimated using standard valuation models and market-based observable inputs over the contractual term. We consider the risk of nonperformance, including counterparty credit risk, in the calculation of the fair value of derivative financial instruments. Our derivative financial instruments include forward foreign exchange contracts. See Note 11 of this Report on Form 10-Q for more information on our use of derivative financial instruments. 
Goodwill was $706,108 as of December 31, 2018, and $101,083 as of September 30, 2018. The increase in goodwill was due to $605,128 in goodwill related to the acquisition of KMG offset by $103 in foreign exchange fluctuations. The amount of goodwill assigned to each of the Electronic Materials and Performance Materials segments was $359,187 and $346,921, respectively. 
As discussed in Note 4, we recorded $844,800 of intangible assets related to our acquisition of KMG. The allocation of the amount into the various categories of intangible assets, as well as useful lives we have established, are discussed in Note 4. 
Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested for impairment annually in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year or more frequently if indicators of potential impairment exist, using a fair-value-based approach. The recoverability of goodwill is measured at the reporting unit level, which is defined as either an operating segment or one level below an operating segment. An entity has the option to assess the fair value of a reporting unit either using a qualitative analysis ("step zero") or a quantitative analysis ("step one"). Similarly, an entity has the option to use a step zero or a step one approach to determine the recoverability of indefinite-lived intangible assets. In 2018, we chose to use a step one analysis for both goodwill impairment and for indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment, with the exception of our CMP slurries reporting unit, for which we chose to use a step zero analysis for fiscal 2018. 
We completed our annual impairment test during our fourth quarter of fiscal 2018 and concluded that no impairment existed. There were no indicators of potential impairment during the quarter ended December 31, 2018, so it was not necessary to perform an impairment review for goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets during the quarter. There have been no impairment charges recorded on the goodwill for any of our reporting units. 
Proceeds of the loans borrowed under the Term Loan Facility on the Acquisition Date were used to fund, in part, the Acquisition and certain of KMG’s existing indebtedness, and to pay related fees and expenses. The Revolving Credit Facility remains undrawn. 
The Credit Facilities are guaranteed by each of the Company’s wholly owned domestic subsidiaries, including KMG and its subsidiaries, and are secured by substantially all assets of the Company and of each subsidiary guarantor, in each case subject to certain exceptions. 
The Term Loan Facility matures on November 15, 2025, the seven-year anniversary of the Acquisition Date, and amortizes in equal quarterly installments of 0.25% of the initial principal amount, starting with the first full fiscal quarter after the Acquisition Date. The Revolving Facility matures on November 15, 2023, the five-year anniversary of the Acquisition Date. In addition, the Company is required to prepay outstanding loans under the Term Loan Facility, subject to certain exceptions, with up to 50% of the Company’s annual excess cash flow, as defined under the Credit Agreement, and 100% of the net cash proceeds of certain recovery events and non-ordinary course asset sales. 
The Company may generally prepay outstanding loans under the Credit Facilities at any time, without prepayment premium or penalty, subject to customary “breakage” costs with respect to LIBOR rate loans. Prepayments of the Term Loan Facility in connection with certain “repricing events” resulting in a lower yield occurring at any time during the first six months after the Acquisition Date must be accompanied by a 1.00% prepayment premium. 
The Revolving Credit Facility requires that the Company maintain a maximum first lien secured net leverage ratio, as defined in the Credit Agreement, of 4.00 to 1.00 as of the last day of each fiscal quarter if any revolving loans are outstanding, commencing with the first full fiscal quarter after the Acquisition Date. 
The Credit Agreement contains certain events of default, including relating to a change of control. If an event of default occurs, the lenders under the Credit Facilities will be entitled to take various actions, including the acceleration of amounts due under the Credit Facilities. 
At December 31, 2018, the fair value of the Term Loan Facility, using level 2 inputs, approximates its carrying value of $1,065,000 as the loan bears a floating market rate of interest. As of December 31, 2018, $10,650 of the debt outstanding was classified as short-term, and $20,170 of debt issuance costs related to our Term Loan were presented as a reduction of long-term debt. 
Subsequent to the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we entered into a floating-to-fixed interest rate swap agreement to hedge the variability in our LIBOR-based interest payments on approximately 70% of our Term Loan Facility balance. 
We are exposed to various market risks, including risks associated with interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. We enter into certain derivative transactions to mitigate the volatility associated with these exposures. We have policies in place that define acceptable instrument types we may enter into and we have established controls to limit our market risk exposure. We do not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. In addition, all derivatives, whether designated in hedging relationships or not, are required to be recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value on a gross basis. 
Net Investment Hedge - Foreign Exchange Contracts 
In September 2017, we entered into forward contracts to sell 100 billion Korean won and buy U.S. dollars, which we subsequently terminated in the third quarter of fiscal 2018. We had designated these forward contracts as an effective net investment hedge. During the first quarter of fiscal 2018, the change in the fair value of these forward contracts in the net investment hedge relationship was $3,241, which was recorded in foreign currency translation adjustments within other comprehensive income.  
In addition, our Company is subject to extensive federal, state and local laws, regulations and ordinances in the U.S. and in other countries. These regulatory requirements relate to the use, generation, storage, handling, emission, transportation and discharge of certain hazardous materials, substances and waste into the environment. The Company, including its KMG entities, manage Environmental, Health and Safety (“EHS”) matters related to protection of the environment and human health, the cleanup of contaminated sites, the treatment, storage and disposal of wastes, and the emission of substances into the air or waterways, among other EHS concerns. Governmental authorities have the power to enforce compliance with their regulations, and violators may be subject to fines, injunctions or both. The Company devotes significant financial resources to compliance, including costs for ongoing compliance.  
Refer to Note 17 of “Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements” in Item 8 of Part II of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018, for additional information regarding commitments and contingencies. 
Purchase obligations include take-or-pay arrangements with suppliers, and purchase orders and other obligations entered into in the normal course of business regarding the purchase of goods and services. We have been operating under a fumed silica supply agreement with Cabot Corporation, our former parent company which is not a related party, the current term of which runs through December 2019. As of December 31, 2018, purchase obligations include $17,183 of contractual commitments related to our Cabot Corporation supply agreement for fumed silica. 
The before tax amount reclassified from AOCI to net income during the three months ended December 31, 2017, related to cash flow hedges, were recorded as interest expense on our Consolidated Statement of Income (Loss). 
KMG awards granted subsequent to the entry into the definitive agreement, but prior to the Acquisition Date, were converted to our restricted stock units (“Replacement Award”), with vesting in three equal installments on the first three anniversaries of the original award date. If the recipient is terminated without cause or resigns with good reason during the 18 months following the Acquisition Date, the Replacement Award will vest as of such termination date in a number of shares equal to 150% of the Replacement Award. 
The share-based compensation expense of $3,253 related to the Replacement Awards, including accelerated vesting, for the three months ended December 31, 2018 is included in the table below. 
 For additional information regarding the estimation of fair value, refer to Note 12 of "Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements" included in Item 8 of Part II of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018. 
  Subsequent to the quarter end, Treasury released final regulations under Sec. 965. The Company will complete its assessment of new regulatory guidance during the quarter ended March 31, 2019.  
In fiscal 2018, we also recorded a provisional estimate of $5,555 for non-U.S. withholding taxes to be incurred on actual and future distributions of foreign earnings as of December 31, 2017. No changes have been made to this estimate for the quarter ended December 31, 2018. 
For the three months ended December 31, 2018, approximately 0.2 million shares attributable to outstanding stock options were excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share because their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive. For the three months ended December 31, 2017, all outstanding stock options were excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share as the dilutive shares in a net loss situation would be anti-dilutive.  
Electronic Materials 
Electronic Materials includes products and solutions for the semiconductor industry. We manufacture and sell CMP consumables, including CMP slurries and polishing pad products, and high-purity process chemicals used to etch and clean silicon wafers in the production of semiconductors, photovoltaics (solar cells) and flat panel displays. 
Performance Materials 
Performance Materials includes pipeline performance products and services for oilfield energy industries, wood treatment products, and products and equipment used in the precision optics industry. 
We began to manage and report our results under the new organizational structure in conjunction with the KMG acquisition in fiscal 2019 and have reflected this change for all historical periods presented. Since the two segments operate independently and serve different markets and customers, there are no sales between segments. Revenue from external customers and segment adjusted EBITDA shown for Performance Materials for the quarter ended December 31, 2017 includes Cabot Microelectronics’ legacy QED business and an immaterial business that was sold in March 2018. The adjustments to segment EBITDA for the three months ended December 31, 2018 represent addbacks of KMG acquisition and integration related expenses, and a charge for the write-up of inventory acquired from KMG to fair value, for inventory sold in the period. There were no adjustments to segment EBITDA for the three months ended December 31, 2017. Unallocated corporate expenses include expenses associated with executive leadership and public company costs, and the unallocated portions of corporate functions including finance, legal, human resources, information technology, and corporate development not directly attributable to a reportable segment. 
The information set forth in Note 12 “Commitments and Contingencies,” to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Report on Form 10-Q is incorporated herein by reference. 
In fiscal 2018, our five largest customers accounted for approximately an aggregate 57% of our revenue, with Samsung, Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company and SK Hynix Inc. accounting for approximately 18%, 12%, and 10%, respectively, of our revenue.  
In particular, China is a fast-developing market for the semiconductor industry, and is an area of potential continued growth for us. As business volume between China and the rest of the world continues to grow, there is risk that geopolitical, regulatory, trade and political matters could adversely affect business for companies like ours based on the complex relationships among China, the United States, and other countries in the Asia Pacific region, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. In addition, there are risks that the Chinese government may, among other things, require the use of local suppliers, compel companies that do business in China to partner with local companies to conduct business, and, provide incentives to government-backed local customers to buy from local suppliers rather than companies like ours, all of which could adversely impact our business, including our results of operations. 
In addition, we have operations and customers located in the United Kingdom. On June 23, 2016, the United Kingdom held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the European Union (“Brexit”). In March 2017, the United Kingdom formally notified the European Union of its intention to withdraw, and withdrawal negotiations began in June 2017. The United Kingdom will cease to be a member state when a withdrawal agreement is entered into (such agreement will also require parliamentary approval) or, failing that, two years following the notification of an intention to leave the European Union, unless the European Union (together with the United Kingdom) unanimously decides to extend this period. In March 2018, the European Union announced an agreement in principle to transitional provisions under which most European Union law would remain in force in the United Kingdom until the end of December 2020, however, this transitional period remains subject to the successful conclusion of a final withdrawal agreement between the parties. In the absence of such an agreement, there would be no transitional provisions and a “hard” Brexit would occur on March 29, 2019. Although it is unknown what the terms of such an agreement will be, it is possible that there will be greater restrictions on imports and exports between the United Kingdom and European Union countries, a fluctuation in currency exchange rates and increased regulatory complexities. These changes may adversely affect our operations and financial results. While such changes in laws, regulations and conditions have not had a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition to date, we cannot assure you as to the future effect of any such changes. 
• the marketing, sale, use and registration of our chemical products, such as pentachlorophenol (“penta”), which is part of 
 wood treatment business in our Performance Materials segment; 
• the investigation and remediation of contaminated media including but not limited to soil and groundwater; 
• other matters relating to environmental protection and various health and safety matters. 
Although the U.S. has not ratified the Kyoto Protocol, a number of federal laws related to “greenhouse gas” or “GHG” emissions have been considered by Congress. Because of the lack of any comprehensive legislation program addressing GHGs, the EPA is using its existing regulatory authority to promulgate regulations requiring reduction in GHG emissions from various categories of sources, such as when a permit is required due to emissions of other pollutants. In addition, various state, local and regional regulations and initiatives have been enacted or are being considered related to GHGs. 
We utilize and rely upon a global workforce. If we fail to attract and retain the necessary managerial, technical and customer support personnel, our business and our ability to maintain existing and obtain new customers, develop new products and provide acceptable levels of customer service could suffer. We compete worldwide with other industry participants for qualified personnel, particularly those with significant experience in the semiconductor industry. The loss of services of key employees, or our inability to obtain or maintain visas or other travel or residency documents on their behalf with respect to our business needs, could harm our business and results of operations. Periodically, we engage in succession planning for our key employees, and our Board of Directors reviews succession planning for our executive officers, including our chief executive officer, on an annual basis. 
In addition, regulatory authorities have increased their focus on how companies collect, process, use, store, share and transmit personal data. New privacy security laws and regulations, including the United Kingdom's Data Protection Act 2018 and the European Union General Data Protection Regulation 2016 that became effective May 2018, among others, pose increasingly complex compliance challenges, which may increase compliance costs, and any failure to comply with data privacy laws and regulations could result in significant penalties. 
In addition, borrowings under our Credit Facilities generally bear interest based on (a) a London Inter-bank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”), subject to a 0.00% floor, or (b) a base rate, in each case plus an applicable margin of, in the case of borrowings under the Term Loan Facility, 2.25% for LIBOR loans and 1.25% for base rate loans and, in the case of borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility, initially, 1.50% for LIBOR loans and 0.50% for base rate loans. On July 27, 2017, the Financial Conduct Authority (the authority that regulates LIBOR) announced that it intends to stop compelling banks to submit rates for the calculation of LIBOR after 2021, and it is unclear whether new methods of calculating LIBOR will be established. If LIBOR ceases to exist after 2021, any calculation of interest based upon the Alternate Base Rate (or any comparable or replacement formulation), may result in higher interest rates. To the extent that these interest rates increase, our interest expense will increase, which could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. 
We have adopted change in control arrangements covering our executive officers and other key employees. These arrangements provide for a cash severance payment, continued medical benefits and other ancillary payments and benefits upon termination of service of a covered employee's employment following a change in control, which may make it more expensive to acquire our Company. 
