The unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared by Cabot Microelectronics pursuant to the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP). In the opinion of management, these unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements include all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for the fair statement of Cabot Microelectronics' financial position as of March 31, 2018, cash flows for the six months ended March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017, and results of operations for the three and six months ended March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017. The Consolidated Balance Sheets as of September 30, 2017 were derived from audited financial statements. The results of operations for the three and six months ended March 31, 2018 may not be indicative of results to be expected for future periods, including the fiscal year ending September 30, 2018. This Report on Form 10-Q does not contain all of the footnote disclosures from the annual financial statements and should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes thereto included in Cabot Microelectronics' Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017. 
The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Cabot Microelectronics and its subsidiaries. All intercompany transactions and balances between the companies have been eliminated as of March 31, 2018. 
During the first quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company entered into a managed investment arrangement with a third party to invest in fixed income securities. These assets were classified as available-for-sale securities and were recorded at fair value. The balance of these securities as of December 31, 2017 was $48,272. Subsequent to the enactment of the Tax Act in the United States, the Company sold all of its non-U.S. available-for-sale securities prior to repatriating the funds to the U.S. The Company recognized a loss of $118 associated with the sale of these investments in the second quarter of fiscal 2018. 
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received from the sale of an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. The Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") established a three-level hierarchy for disclosure based on the extent and level of judgment used to estimate fair value. Level 1 inputs consist of valuations based on quoted market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level 2 inputs consist of valuations based on quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in an inactive market, or other observable inputs. Level 3 inputs consist of valuations based on unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity. 
The following table presents financial instruments, other than long-term debt, that we measured at fair value on a recurring basis at March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2017. See Note 8 for a detailed discussion of our long-term debt. We have classified the following assets and liabilities in accordance with the fair value hierarchy set forth in the applicable standards. In instances where the inputs used to measure the fair value of an asset fall into more than one level of the hierarchy, we have classified them based on the lowest-level input that is significant to the determination of the fair value.  
Our cash and cash equivalents consist of various bank accounts used to support our operations and investments in institutional money-market funds that are traded in active markets. We are invested exclusively in AAA-rated, prime institutional money market funds, comprised of high quality, fixed income securities. Our other long-term investments represent the fair value of investments under the Cabot Microelectronics Supplemental Employee Retirement Plan (SERP), which is a nonqualified supplemental savings plan. The fair value of the investments is determined through quoted market prices within actively traded markets. Although the investments are allocated to individual participants and investment decisions are made solely by those participants, the SERP is a nonqualified plan. Consequently, the Company owns the assets and the related offsetting liability for disbursement until a participant makes a qualifying withdrawal. The long-term investment was adjusted to $1,071 in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 to reflect its fair value as of March 31, 2018. 
Goodwill was $102,915 as of March 31, 2018, and $101,932 as of September 30, 2017. The increase in goodwill was due to $1,678 in foreign exchange fluctuations of the New Taiwan dollar, partially offset by a $695 decrease related to the sale of certain ESF assets. As a result of this sale of assets in March 2018, we received net proceeds of $3,249, of which $250 is held in escrow, and recorded a preliminary gain of $956 in other income in the Consolidated Statements of Income. 
During the first quarter of fiscal 2018, development of our in-process technology was completed, and we reclassified $4,000 to product technology under other intangible assets subject to amortization.  
In the first quarter of fiscal 2018, we adopted ASU No. 2017-04 "Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment." The provisions of this standard eliminate Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test, which required an entity to determine the fair value of its assets and liabilities at the impairment testing date of its goodwill and compare it to its carrying amount to determine a possible impairment loss. Goodwill impairment testing is now done by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit and its carrying amount. 
Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested for impairment annually in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year or more frequently if indicators of potential impairment exist, using a fair-value-based approach. The recoverability of goodwill is measured at the reporting unit level, which is defined as either an operating segment or one level below an operating segment. An entity has the option to assess the fair value of a reporting unit either using a qualitative analysis ("step zero") or a quantitative analysis ("step one"). Similarly, an entity has the option to use a step zero or a step one approach to determine the recoverability of indefinite-lived intangible assets. In fiscal 2017, we used a step one analysis for both goodwill impairment and indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment. 
We completed our annual impairment test during our fourth quarter of fiscal 2017 and concluded that no impairment existed. There were no indicators of potential impairment during the quarter ended March 31, 2018, so it was not necessary to perform an impairment review for goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets during the quarter. There have been no impairment charges recorded on the goodwill for any of our reporting units. 
Our ARS investments at March 31, 2018 consisted of two tax exempt municipal debt securities with a total par value of $5,319, both of which have maturities greater than ten years. The fair value of our ARS, determined using Level 2 fair value inputs, was $5,041 as of March 31, 2018. We have classified our ARS as held-to-maturity securities based on our intention and ability to hold the securities until maturity. We believe the gross unrecognized loss of $278 is due to the illiquidity in the ARS market, rather than to credit loss. Although we believe these securities will ultimately be collected in full, we believe that it is not likely that we will be able to monetize the securities in our next business cycle (which for us is generally one year). We will continue to monitor our ARS for impairment indicators, which may require us to record an impairment charge that is deemed other-than-temporary. 
In the third quarter of fiscal 2015, we amended a supply agreement with an existing supplier. The amended agreement includes a fee of $4,500, of which we already have paid $3,000, which provides us the option to purchase certain raw materials beyond calendar 2016 through the expiration of the agreement in December 2019. This fee was recorded as a long-term asset at its present value and is being amortized into cost of goods sold on a straight-line basis through the expiration date of the agreement. See Note 10 for more information regarding this agreement. 
Other long-term assets are comprised of the long-term portion of prepaid unamortized debt costs, related to our Revolving Credit Facility, as well as miscellaneous deposits and prepayments on contracts extending beyond the next 12 months. As discussed in Note 3, we recorded a long-term asset and a corresponding long-term liability of $1,071 representing the fair value of our SERP investments as of March 31, 2018. 
 As of March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2017, unamortized debt issuance costs related to our Term Loan that are presented as a reduction of long-term debt were $315 and $441, respectively. Unamortized debt issuance costs related to our Revolving Credit Facility were not material. 
We are exposed to various market risks, including risks associated with interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. We enter into certain derivative transactions to mitigate the volatility associated with these exposures. We have policies in place that define acceptable instrument types we may enter into and we have established controls to limit our market risk exposure. We do not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. In addition, all derivatives, whether designated in hedging relationships or not, are required to be recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value on a gross basis. 
In the first quarter of fiscal 2015, we entered into floating-to-fixed interest rate swap agreements to hedge the variability in LIBOR-based interest payments on $86,406 of our outstanding variable rate debt. The notional amount of the swaps decreases each quarter by an amount in proportion to our scheduled quarterly principal payment of debt. The notional value of the swaps was $68,906 as of March 31, 2018, and the swaps are scheduled to expire on June 27, 2019. 
The interest rate swap agreements were subsequently terminated in April 2018 in conjunction with the payoff of the Term Loan. See Note 18 of this Report on Form 10-Q for more information. 
In September 2017, we entered into two forward foreign exchange contracts in an effort to protect the net investment of our South Korean subsidiary against potential adverse changes resulting from currency fluctuations in the Korean won. We entered into forward contracts to sell Korean won and buy U.S. dollars, settling in September 2022. We have designated these forward contracts as an effective net investment hedge. The total notional amount under the contracts is 100 billion Korean won. For the quarter ended March 31, 2018, the change in the fair value of the forward contracts in the net investment hedge relationship of $2,966 was recorded in foreign currency translation adjustments within Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income. 
In April 2018, we terminated the net investment hedge contracts. See Note 18 of this Report on Form 10-Q for more information. 
The interest rate swap agreements have been deemed to be effective since inception, so there has been no impact on our Consolidated Statements of Income. We recorded a $52 unrealized loss and a $148 unrealized gain, net of tax, in accumulated comprehensive income during the three and six months ended March 31, 2018, respectively, for these interest rate swaps. As of March 31, 2018, during the next 12 months, we expect approximately $413 to be reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income into interest expense related to our interest rate swaps based on projected rates of the LIBOR forward curve as of March 31, 2018. 
Refer to Note 18 of "Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements" in Item 8 of Part II of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017, for additional information regarding commitments and contingencies. 
We have defined benefit plans covering employees in certain foreign jurisdictions as required by local law, which are unfunded. Benefit costs, consisting primarily of service costs, are recorded as fringe benefit expense under cost of goods sold and operating expenses in our Consolidated Statements of Income. The projected benefit obligations and accumulated benefit obligations under all such unfunded plans are updated annually during the fourth quarter of the fiscal year. Benefit payments under all such unfunded plans to be paid over the next ten years are expected to be approximately $5,785. For more information regarding these plans, refer to Note 18 of "Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements" included in Item 8 of Part II of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017. 
Purchase obligations include take-or-pay arrangements with suppliers, and purchase orders and other obligations entered into in the normal course of business regarding the purchase of goods and services. We have been operating under a fumed silica supply agreement with Cabot Corporation, our former parent company which is not a related party, the current term of which runs through December 2019. This agreement provides us the option to purchase fumed silica, with no minimum purchase requirements as of 2017, for which we have paid a fee of $1,500 in each of calendar years 2017 and 2018, and will pay in 2019. The $1,500 payment due in 2019 is included in accrued expenses on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. As of March 31, 2018, purchase obligations include $5,884 of contractual commitments related to our Cabot Corporation supply agreement for fumed silica. 
The before tax amounts reclassified from AOCI to net income during the six months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, related to our cash flow hedges, were recorded as interest expense on our Consolidated Statements of Income. For the six months ended March 31, 2018, we recorded $11,105 in currency translation gains, net of tax, primarily due to exchange rate fluctuations in the Japanese yen and Korean won versus the U.S. dollar, that are included in other comprehensive income, including a net loss of $5,789 related to our net investment hedge. These gains and losses primarily relate to changes in the U.S. dollar value of assets and liabilities denominated in local currencies when these asset and liability amounts are translated at month-end exchange rates. 
We record share-based compensation expense for all share-based awards, including stock option grants, and restricted stock, restricted stock unit and performance share unit ("PSU") awards, and employee stock purchase plan purchases. We calculate share-based compensation expense using the straight-line approach based on awards ultimately expected to vest, which requires the use of an estimated forfeiture rate. Our estimated forfeiture rate is primarily based on historical experience, but may be revised in future periods if actual forfeitures differ from the estimate. We use the Black-Scholes option-pricing model to estimate the grant date fair value of our stock options and employee stock purchase plan purchases. This model requires the input of highly subjective assumptions, including the price volatility of the underlying stock, the expected term of our stock options, expected dividend yield and the risk-free interest rate. We estimate the expected volatility of our stock options based on a combination of our stock's historical volatility and the implied volatilities from actively-traded options on our stock. We calculate the expected term of our stock options using historical stock option exercise data, and for stock option grants made prior to December 2017, we have added a slight premium to this expected term for employees who meet the definition of retirement-eligible pursuant to their stock option grants during the contractual term of the grant. As of December 2017, the provisions of new stock option grants and restricted stock unit awards state that except in certain circumstances including termination for cause, once an employee meets the retirement eligibility requirements, any remaining unvested share-based awards will continue to vest regardless of termination of service. Consequently, the requisite service period for the award is satisfied upon retirement eligibility. Therefore, for those employees who have met the retirement eligibility at the grant date, we now record the total share-based compensation expense upon award; for those employees who will meet the retirement eligibility during the four-year vesting period, we now record the share-based compensation expense over the period from the grant date through the date of retirement eligibility, rather than over the four-year vesting period stated in the award agreement. 
The expected dividend yield represents our annualized dividend in dollars divided by the stock price on the date of grant. The risk-free interest rate is derived from the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant. 
In December 2017, we announced the appointment of Scott D. Beamer as our Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, effective as of January 15, 2018, and the intention of William S. Johnson, the Company's then current Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, to retire. Upon the effective date of Mr. Beamer's appointment, Mr. Johnson resigned as our Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and now is performing transition responsibilities in a senior advisor role until his retirement date in January 2019 (the "Retirement Date"). Mr. Johnson's currently outstanding non-qualified stock option, restricted stock, and restricted stock unit awards under the OIP remain outstanding in accordance with their terms, which include that he will forfeit any unvested awards as of the Retirement Date. Applying the guidance in ASC 718 "Compensation—Stock Compensation", we recorded $1,744 of related share-based compensation expense in the three months ended December 31, 2017. 
For additional information regarding the estimation of fair value, refer to Note 13 of "Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements" included in Item 8 of Part II of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017.
 13.  OTHER INCOME, NET     
Our effective tax rate was 19.6% and 63.8% for the three and six months ended March 31, 2018, respectively, compared to a 20.8% and 20.5% effective income tax rate for the three and six months ended March 31, 2017. The significant increase in our effective tax rate for the six months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the prior year is primarily driven by discrete adjustments related to recently enacted Tax Act in the United States. Other factors that impacted the Company's effective tax rate for the three and six months ended March 31, 2018 were primarily related to benefits in excess of compensation cost from share based compensation recorded in the income statement (as opposed to equity prior to October 2017) and the absence of benefits of a tax holiday in South Korea, which expired as of October 2017. The Company currently expects its effective tax rate for the remainder quarters to be within the range of 21% to 24%. Previously, before the impact of the Tax Act, the Company had estimated an effective tax rate of 24% to 27% for the full fiscal year. 
Basic earnings per share (EPS) is calculated by dividing net income available to common stockholders by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period, excluding the effects of unvested restricted stock awards that have a right to receive non-forfeitable dividends, which are considered participating securities as prescribed by the two-class method under ASC 260 "Earnings per Share". Diluted EPS is calculated in a similar manner, but the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period is increased to include the weighted-average dilutive effect of "in-the-money" stock options and unvested restricted stock shares using the treasury stock method. 
Pursuant to the adoption of ASU 2016-09 in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, the tax benefits associated with share-based compensation plans were recorded as a tax benefit in our Consolidated Statements of Income. The number of shares that would be repurchased with the proceeds from the tax benefits was excluded from the diluted weighted average shares outstanding using treasury stock method under the new guidance. 
Approximately 0.1 million shares for both the three and six months ended March 31, 2018 and 0.4 million shares for both the three and six months ended March 31, 2017, attributable to outstanding stock options were excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share. 
We operate predominantly in one reportable segment, as defined under ASC 280 "Segment Reporting" – the development, manufacture, and sale of CMP consumables. 
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers" (Topic 606), an updated standard on revenue recognition. ASU 2014-09 provides enhancements to how revenue is reported and improves comparability in the financial statements of companies reporting using IFRS and U.S. GAAP. The core principle of the new standard is for companies to recognize revenue for goods or services in amounts that reflect the consideration to which the company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The new standard is intended to enhance disclosures about revenue, provide guidance for transactions that were not previously addressed comprehensively, such as service revenue and contract modifications, and improve guidance for multiple-element arrangements. In August 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-14, "Deferral of Effective Date" (Topic 606). This standard defers the effective date of ASU 2014-09 by one year. ASU 2014-09 will be effective for us beginning October 1, 2018, and may be applied on a full retrospective or modified retrospective approach. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-08, "Principal versus Agent Considerations (Reporting Revenue Gross versus Net)" (Topic 606). ASU 2016-08 provides clarification for the implementation guidance on principal versus agent considerations. In April 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-10, ASU No. 2016-11, and ASU 2016-12, and ASU 2017-13 issued in September 2017, all of which provide additional clarification of the original revenue standard. We continue to work to identify potential differences that would result from applying the requirements of the new standard to our revenue contracts, and identify and implement changes to business processes, systems and controls to support recognition and disclosure under the new standard. We anticipate any changes to revenue recognition for our Company are likely to be related to certain pricing and incentive arrangements with our customers within our CMP consumables business, but we believe the recognition of revenue will remain substantially unchanged for the majority of our contracts with customers. We anticipate we will adopt the new revenue standard in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 using the modified retrospective approach to adoption, which will require us to record the cumulative effect of adopting the standard as an adjustment to the beginning balance of retained earnings. We continue to evaluate the impact of the implementation of these standards on our financial statements. 
In July 2015, the FASB issued ASU No, 2015-11, "Simplifying the Measurement of Inventory" (Topic 330). The provisions of ASU 2015-11 require an entity to measure inventory at the lower of cost and net realizable value. Net realizable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal, and transportation. We adopted ASU 2015-11 effective October 1, 2017, and this pronouncement had no material effect on our financial statements. 
 In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-01, "Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities" (Subtopic 825-10). The provision of ASU 2016-01 requires equity investments, other than those accounted for under the equity method of accounting or those that result in consolidation, to be measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in net income. ASU 2016-01 simplifies the impairment assessment of equity securities by permitting a qualitative assessment each reporting period, and makes changes to presentation and disclosure of certain classes of financial assets and liabilities. ASU 2016-01 will be effective for us beginning October 1, 2018, but early adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of implementation of this standard on our financial statements. 
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, "Leases" (Topic 842). The provisions of ASU 2016-02 require a dual approach for lessee accounting under which a lessee would recognize a right-of-use asset and a corresponding lease liability. Leases will be classified as either finance or operating leases. For finance leases, a lessee will recognize interest expense and amortization of the right-of-use asset, and for operating leases, the lessee will recognize a straight-line total lease expense. The guidance also requires qualitative and specific quantitative disclosures to supplement the amounts recorded in the financial statements, to afford better understanding of an entity's leasing activities, including any significant judgments and estimates. ASU 2016-02 will be effective for us beginning October 1, 2019, but early adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of implementation of this standard on our financial statements. 
In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-05, "Effect of Derivative Contract Novations on Existing Hedge Accounting Relationships" (Topic 815). The provisions of ASU 2016-05 provide clarification that a change in a counterparty of a derivative instrument that has been designated as a hedging instrument does not require dedesignation of that hedging relationship, provided that all other hedge accounting criteria is met. ASU 2016-05 will be effective for us beginning October 1, 2018, but early adoption is permitted. We do not believe the adoption of this standard will have a material effect on our financial statements. 
In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-07, "Simplifying the Transition to the Equity Method of Accounting" (Topic 323). The provisions of ASU 2016-07 require equity method investors to add the cost of acquiring additional interest in the investee to the current basis of the investor's previously held interest and adopt the equity method prospectively as of the date the investment qualifies for the equity method of accounting. ASU 2016-07 will be effective for us beginning October 1, 2018, but early adoption is permitted. We do not believe the adoption of this standard will have a material effect on our financial statements as we currently have no equity method investments. 
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13, "Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments" (Topic 326). The provisions of this standard require financial assets measured at amortized cost to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected. An allowance account would be established to present the net carrying value at the amount expected to be collected. ASU 2016-13 also provides that credit losses relating to available-for-sale debt securities should be recorded through an allowance for credit losses. ASU 2016-13 will be effective for us beginning October 1, 2020, but early adoption is permitted as of October 1, 2019. We are currently evaluating the impact of implementation of this standard on our financial statements. 
In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-15 "Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments" (Topic 230). The provisions of this standard provide guidance on the classification within the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows of certain types of cash receipts and cash payments in an effort to eliminate diversity in practice. ASU 2016-15 will be effective for us beginning October 1, 2018, but early adoption is permitted. We do not believe the adoption of this standard will have a material effect on our financial statements as we currently do not have any of the cash receipts or payments discussed in this standard. 
In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-16 "Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory" (Topic 740). The provisions of this standard provide guidance on recognition of taxes related to intra-entity transfer of assets other than inventory when the transfer occurs. ASU 2016-16 will be effective for us beginning October 1, 2018, but early adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of implementation of this standard on our financial statements. 
In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-17 "Interest Held through Related Parties That Are under Common Control" (Topic 810). The provisions of this standard provide further guidance related to ASU 2015-02, and provide guidance on consolidation in relation to VIEs and related parties. We adopted ASU 2016-17 effective October 1, 2017, and this pronouncement had no material effect on our financial statements as we currently have no interest in any entities that may be considered VIE. 
In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-01 "Clarifying the Definition of a Business" (Topic 805). The provisions of this standard provide guidance to determine whether the acquisition or sale of a set of assets or activities constitutes a business. The standard requires that an integrated set of assets and activities include an input and a substantive process that together contribute to the ability to create output. We adopted ASU 2017-01 effective October 1, 2017, and this pronouncement had no material effect on our financial statements. 
In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-04 "Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment" (Topic 350). The provisions of this standard eliminate Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test, which required an entity to determine the fair value of its assets and liabilities at the impairment testing date of its goodwill and compare it to its carrying amount to determine a possible impairment loss. Goodwill impairment testing will now be done by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit and its carrying amount. We adopted ASU 2017-04 effective October 1, 2017 and we will apply the new guidance in our annual test for goodwill impairment in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018. 
In March 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-07 "Improving the Presentation of Net Period Pension Cost and Net Period Postretirement Benefit Cost" (Topic 715). The provisions of ASU 2017-07 provided specific guidance on the presentation of the components of net benefit cost. ASU 2017-07 will be effective for us beginning October 1, 2018. We are currently evaluating the impact of implementation of this standard on our financial statements. 
In May 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-09 "Scope of Modification Accounting" (Topic 718). The provisions of ASU 2017-09 provide specific guidance about which changes to the term or conditions of a share-based payment require an entity to apply modification accounting. ASU 2017-09 will be effective for us beginning October 1, 2018. We are currently evaluating the impact of implementation of this standard on our financial statements. 
In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-12 "Derivatives and Hedging" (Topic 815). The provisions of this standard amend the hedge accounting model in ASC 815 to expand an entity's ability to hedge nonfinancial and financial risk components, reduce complexity in fair value hedges of interest rate risk, eliminate the requirement to separately measure and report hedge ineffectiveness, and generally require the entire change in the fair value of a hedging instrument to be presented in the same income statement line as the hedged item. The guidance also eases certain documentation and assessment requirements and modifies the accounting for components excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness. ASU 2017-12 will be effective for us beginning October 1, 2019, but early adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of implementation of this standard on our financial statements. 
 The enactment of the Tax Act in the United States in December 2017 facilitated the Company's intention to repatriate a substantial amount of its non-U.S. cash and available-for-sale securities, and utilize a portion of this cash to payoff its existing Term Loan. In accordance with this, in April 2018, the Company paid off the remaining outstanding Term Loan principal balance of $137,813 pursuant to the Credit Agreement. There was no penalty upon the Company's prepayment of the Term Loan. As a result of this early extinguishment of the Term Loan, we will expense the remaining immaterial amount of unamortized debt issuance cost in the quarter ending June 30, 2018. In conjunction with the payoff the term loan, we terminated the related interest rate swaps, and the immaterial gain will be reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income into other income in the Consolidated Statements of Income. 
In addition, in anticipation of the cash repatriation described above, the Company terminated its foreign exchange contracts in April 2018, which were used to protect the net investment of our South Korean subsidiary against potential adverse changes resulting from currency fluctuations in the Korean Won. Due to the continued appreciation of the Korean Won, we will recognize an additional loss of $690, net of tax, on our net investment hedge in the quarter ending June 30, 2018, which will be recorded in foreign currency translation adjustments within the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income. 
During the six months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, our five largest customers accounted for approximately 57% of our revenue for each of the periods. During the six months ended March 31, 2018, Samsung and Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company (TSMC), were our largest customers, accounting for approximately 18% and 13%, respectively, of our revenue. During the six months ended March 31, 2017, Samsung, TSMC, and Micron Technology, Inc. were our largest customers, accounting for approximately 16%, 14%, and 11%, respectively, of our revenue. 
In particular, China is a fast-developing market for the semiconductor industry, and is an area of potential continued growth for us. As business volume between China and the rest of the world continues to grow, there is risk that geopolitical, regulatory, trade and political matters could adversely affect business for companies like ours based on the complex relationships among China, the United States, and other countries in the Asia Pacific region, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. In addition, there are risks that the Chinese government may, among other things, require the use of local suppliers, compel companies that do business in China to partner with local companies to conduct business, and, provide incentives to government-backed local customers to buy from local suppliers rather than companies like ours, all of which could adversely impact our business, including our results of operations. 
We utilize and rely upon a global workforce. If we fail to attract and retain the necessary managerial, technical and customer support personnel, our business and our ability to maintain existing and obtain new customers, develop new products and provide acceptable levels of customer service could suffer. We compete worldwide with other industry participants for qualified personnel, particularly those with significant experience in the semiconductor industry. The loss of services of key employees, or our inability to obtain or maintain visas or other travel or residency documents on their behalf with respect to our business needs, could harm our business and results of operations. Periodically, we engage in succession planning for our key employees, and our Board of Directors reviews succession planning for our executive officers, including our chief executive officer, on an annual basis. 
We have adopted change in control arrangements covering our executive officers and other key employees. These arrangements provide for a cash severance payment, continued medical benefits and other ancillary payments and benefits upon termination of service of a covered employee's employment following a change in control, which may make it more expensive to acquire our Company. 
