The information set forth in Note 12 “Commitments and Contingencies,” to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Report on Form 10-Q is incorporated herein by reference. 
Although our product offerings have expanded with the acquisition of KMG, our business remains substantially dependent on products in our Electronic Materials segment, such as CMP slurries, pads and electronic chemicals, which account for the majority of our revenue. We have identified our Performance Materials segment as another area of potential continued growth and the product offerings in our Performance Materials segment are similarly concentrated. As such, our business would suffer if these products became obsolete or if consumption of these products decreased. Our success depends on our ability to keep pace with technological changes and advances in the industries in which we operate, particularly the semiconductor industry, and to adapt, improve and customize our products in response to evolving customer needs and industry trends. Since its inception, the semiconductor industry, which is the largest industry in which we operate, has experienced technological changes and advances in the design, manufacture, performance and application of IC devices. Our customers continually pursue lower cost of ownership and higher quality and performance of materials consumed in their manufacturing processes, including CMP slurries and pads and electronic chemicals, as a means to reduce costs, increase the yield in their manufacturing facilities, and achieve desired performance of the IC devices they produce. We expect these technological changes, and this drive toward lower costs, higher quality and performance and higher yields, will continue in the future. Potential technology developments in the semiconductor industry, as well as our customers' efforts to reduce consumption of CMP consumables, including through use of smaller quantities, could render our products less important to the IC device manufacturing process. 
Our customer base is concentrated among a limited number of large customers in each of our segments. Currently, our principal business is to supply electronic materials primarily to the semiconductor industry. The semiconductor industry has been consolidating as the larger semiconductor manufacturers have generally grown faster than the smaller ones, through business gains, mergers and acquisitions, and strategic alliances. Industry analysts predict that this trend will continue, which means the semiconductor industry will be comprised of fewer and larger participants in the future if their prediction is correct. In addition, our customer base in our pipeline-related businesses is also somewhat concentrated, with large entities predominant, and outside of the United States, these entities frequently are state-owned or sponsored and limited in number per country, as described more above. One or more of these principal customers could stop buying products from us or could substantially reduce the quantity of products purchased from us. Our principal customers also hold considerable purchasing power, which can impact the pricing and terms of sale of our products. Any deferral or significant reduction in the quantity or price of products sold to these principal customers could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 
In fiscal 2018, our five largest customers accounted for approximately an aggregate 57% of our revenue, with Samsung, Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company and SK Hynix Inc. accounting for approximately 18%, 12%, and 10%, respectively, of our revenue.  
We depend on our supply chain to enable us to meet the demands of our customers. Our supply chain includes the raw materials we use to manufacture our products, our production operations and the means by which we deliver our products to our customers. Our business could be adversely affected by any problem or interruption in the supply of the key raw materials we use in our products, including raw materials that do not meet the stringent quality and consistency requirements of our customers, any problem or interruption that may occur during production or delivery of our products, such as weather-related problems, natural disasters, or geopolitical, trade or labor-related issues, or any difficulty in producing sufficient quantities of our products to meet growing demand from our customers. In particular, severe weather conditions have the potential to adversely affect our operations, damage facilities and increase our costs, and those conditions may also have an indirect effect on our operations by disrupting services provided by service companies or suppliers with whom we have a business relationship. Additionally, some of our full-time employees are represented by labor unions, workers councils or comparable organizations, particularly in Mexico and Europe. As our current agreements expire, we cannot assure you that new agreements will be reached at the end of each period without union action, or that a new agreement will be reached on terms satisfactory to us. An extended work stoppage, slowdown or other action by our employees could significantly disrupt our business. Future labor contracts may be on terms that result in higher labor costs to us, which also could adversely affect our results of operations. Our supply chain may also be negatively impacted by unanticipated price increases due to supply restrictions beyond the control of our Company or our raw materials suppliers. 
In particular, China is a fast-developing market for the semiconductor industry, and is an area of potential continued growth for us. As business volume between China and the rest of the world continues to grow, there is risk that geopolitical, regulatory, trade and political matters could adversely affect business for companies like ours based on the complex relationships among China, the United States, and other countries in the Asia Pacific region, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. In addition, there are risks that the Chinese government may, among other things, require the use of local suppliers, compel companies that do business in China to partner with local companies to conduct business, and, provide incentives to government-backed local customers to buy from local suppliers rather than companies like ours, all of which could adversely impact our business, including our results of operations. 
In addition, we have operations and customers located in the United Kingdom. In June 2016, the United Kingdom held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the European Union (“Brexit”). In March 2017, the United Kingdom formally notified the European Union of its intention to withdraw, and withdrawal negotiations began in June 2017. The United Kingdom will cease to be a member state when a withdrawal agreement is entered into (such agreement will also require parliamentary approval) or, failing that, two years following the notification of an intention to leave the European Union, unless the European Union (together with the United Kingdom) unanimously decides to extend this period. In March 2018, the European Union announced an agreement in principle to transitional provisions under which most European Union law would remain in force in the United Kingdom until the end of December 2020, however, this transitional period remains subject to the successful conclusion of a final withdrawal agreement between the parties. In the absence of such an agreement, there would be no transitional provisions and a “hard” Brexit would occur. In April 2019, the United Kingdom and European Union agreed that the transitional provisions are extended until October 21, 2019. Although it is unknown what the terms of such an agreement will be, it is possible that there will be greater restrictions on imports and exports between the United Kingdom and European Union countries, a fluctuation in currency exchange rates and increased regulatory complexities. These changes may adversely affect our operations and financial results. While such changes in laws, regulations and conditions have not had a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition to date, we cannot assure you as to the future effect of any such changes. 
• the marketing, sale, use and registration of our chemical products, such as pentachlorophenol (“penta”), which is part of 
 wood treatment business in our Performance Materials segment; 
• the investigation and remediation of contaminated media including but not limited to soil and groundwater; 
• the discharge of effluents into waterways; 
• other matters relating to environmental protection and various health and safety matters. 
The United States Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) and other federal and state agencies in the United States, as well as comparable agencies in other countries where we have facilities or sell our products, have the authority to promulgate regulations that could have a material adverse impact on our operations. These EHS laws and regulations may require permits for certain types of operations, require the installation of expensive pollution control equipment, place restrictions upon operations or impose substantial liability for pollution and other EHS concerns resulting from our operations. Compliance with EHS laws and regulations has resulted in ongoing costs for us and could restrict our ability to modify or expand our facilities, continue production, require us to install costly pollution control equipment, or incur significant other expenses, including remediation costs. We are currently involved in investigation and remediation activities at certain sites. We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, significant costs to comply with EHS laws or to address liabilities for contamination resulting from past or present operations. Federal, state and foreign governmental authorities may seek fines and penalties, as well as injunctive relief, for violation of EHS laws and regulations, and could, among other things, impose liability on us to cleanup or mitigate environmental, natural resources or other damages resulting from a release of pesticides, hazardous materials or other chemicals into the environment. We maintain insurance coverage for sudden and accidental environmental damages. We do not believe that insurance coverage for environmental damage that occurs over time is available at a reasonable cost. Also, we do not believe that insurance coverage for the full potential liability that could be caused by sudden and accidental incidences is available at a reasonable cost. Accordingly, we may be subject to an uninsured or under-insured loss in such cases. 
Governmental regulatory authorities have required, and may require in the future, that certain scientific testing and data production be provided on our products. Under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act (“FIFRA”), EPA requires registrants to submit a wide range of scientific data to support U.S. registrations. This requirement significantly increases our operating expenses, and we expect those expenses will continue in the future. Because scientific analyses are constantly improving, we cannot determine with certainty whether or not new or additional tests may be required by regulatory authorities. While good laboratory practice standards specify the minimum practices and procedures that must be followed in order to ensure the quality and integrity of data related to these tests submitted to the EPA, there can be no assurance that the EPA will not request certain tests or studies be repeated. In addition, more stringent legislation or requirements may be imposed in the future. Recent changes to the Toxic Substances Control Act (“TSCA”) could result in increased regulation and required testing of chemicals we manufacture and could increase the costs of compliance for our operations. We can provide no assurance that the cost of such compliance will not adversely affect our profitability. Our products could also be subject to other future regulatory action that may result in restricting or completely banning their use which could have an adverse effect on our performance and results of operations. 
Although the U.S. has not ratified the Kyoto Protocol, a number of federal laws related to “greenhouse gas” or “GHG” emissions have been considered by Congress. Because of the lack of any comprehensive legislation program addressing GHGs, the EPA is using its existing regulatory authority to promulgate regulations requiring reduction in GHG emissions from various categories of sources, such as when a permit is required due to emissions of other pollutants. In addition, various state, local and regional regulations and initiatives have been enacted or are being considered related to GHGs. 
Member States of the European Union each have an overall cap on emissions, which are approved by the European Commission, and implement the EU Emissions Trading Directive as a commitment to the Kyoto Protocol. Under this Directive, organizations apply to the Member State for an allowance of GHG emissions. These allowances are tradable so as to enable companies that manage to reduce their GHG emissions to sell their excess allowances to companies that are not reaching their emissions objectives. Failure to purchase sufficient allowances will require the purchase of allowances at a current market price. 
We utilize and rely upon a global workforce. If we fail to attract and retain the necessary managerial, technical and customer support personnel, our business and our ability to maintain existing and obtain new customers, develop new products and provide acceptable levels of customer service could suffer. We compete worldwide with other industry participants for qualified personnel, particularly those with significant experience in the semiconductor industry. The loss of services of key employees, or our inability to obtain or maintain visas or other travel or residency documents on their behalf with respect to our business needs, could harm our business and results of operations. Periodically, we engage in succession planning for our key employees, and our Board of Directors reviews succession planning for our executive officers, including our chief executive officer, on an annual basis. 
In addition, regulatory authorities have increased their focus on how companies collect, process, use, store, share and transmit personal data. New privacy security laws and regulations, including the United Kingdom's Data Protection Act 2018 and the European Union General Data Protection Regulation 2016 that became effective May 2018, among others, pose increasingly complex compliance challenges, which may increase compliance costs, and any failure to comply with data privacy laws and regulations could result in significant penalties. 
In addition, borrowings under our Credit Facilities generally bear interest based on (a) a London Inter-bank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”), subject to a 0.00% floor, or (b) a base rate, in each case plus an applicable margin of, in the case of borrowings under the Term Loan Facility, 2.25% for LIBOR loans and 1.25% for base rate loans and, in the case of borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility, initially, 1.50% for LIBOR loans and 0.50% for base rate loans. On July 27, 2017, the Financial Conduct Authority (the authority that regulates LIBOR) announced that it intends to stop compelling banks to submit rates for the calculation of LIBOR after 2021, and it is unclear whether new methods of calculating LIBOR will be established. If LIBOR ceases to exist after 2021, any calculation of interest based upon the Alternate Base Rate (or any comparable or replacement formulation), may result in higher interest rates. To the extent that these interest rates increase, our interest expense will increase, which could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. 
Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, and various provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may make it more difficult or expensive to effect a change in control of our Company. For instance, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides for the division of our Board of Directors into three classes as nearly equal in size as possible with staggered three-year terms. 
We have adopted change in control arrangements covering our executive officers and other key employees. These arrangements provide for a cash severance payment, continued medical benefits and other ancillary payments and benefits upon termination of service of a covered employee's employment following a change in control, which may make it more expensive to acquire our Company. 
In January 2016, our Board of Directors authorized an increase in the amount available under our share repurchase program to $150.0 million. As of March 31, 2019, $81.3 million remained outstanding under our share repurchase program. We did not repurchase any shares under this program during the first two quarters of fiscal 2019. The manner in which the Company repurchases its shares is discussed in Part I, Item 2, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, under the heading “Liquidity and Capital Resources”, of this Report on Form 10-Q. To date, we have funded share purchases under our share repurchase program from our available cash balance, and anticipate we will continue to do so. 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. 
