Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 
The interest rates on our 2018 Credit Agreement are based upon an adjusted LIBOR rate plus an applicable margin, or an alternate base rate plus an applicable margin. See Note 4 to our Financial Statements for further details of our long-term debt.  
Settlement Assets. We are exposed to market risk associated with cash held on behalf of our clients related to our payment processing services. As of June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, we had $88.6 million and $124.6 million, respectively, of cash collected on behalf of our clients which is held for an established holding period until settlement with the client. The holding period is generally one to four business days depending on the payment model and contractual terms with the client. During the holding period, cash is held in trust accounts with various major financial institutions in the U.S. in an amount equal to at least 100% of the aggregate amount owed to our clients. These balances can significantly fluctuate between periods due to activity at the end of the period and the day in which the period ends. 
Long-Term Debt. The fair value of our convertible debt is exposed to market risk. We do not carry our convertible debt at fair value but present the fair value for disclosure purposes (see Note 2 to our Financial Statements). Generally, the fair value of our convertible debt is impacted by changes in interest rates and changes in the price and volatility of our common stock. As of June 30, 2019, the fair value of the 2016 Convertible Notes was estimated at $254.4 million, using quoted market prices.  
Due to foreign operations around the world, our balance sheet and income statement are exposed to foreign currency exchange risk due to the fluctuations in the value of currencies in which we conduct business. While we attempt to maximize natural hedges by incurring expenses in the same currency in which we contract revenue, the related expenses for that revenue could be in one or more differing currencies than the revenue stream.  
During the six months ended June 30, 2019, we generated approximately 88% of our revenues in U.S. dollars. We expect that, in the foreseeable future, we will continue to generate a very large percentage of our revenues in U.S. dollars.  
Item 3. Defaults Upon Senior Securities  
