On February 26, 2018, we acquired Energid Technologies Corporation (“Energid”) for a total purchase price of approximately $27.6 million. Energid’s technology enables and simplifies the programming of complex robotic motions used in a wide variety of end markets, ranging from heavy industry to healthcare, utilizing both traditional robots and collaborative robots.  
On April 25, 2018, we acquired Mobile Industrial Robots ApS (“MiR”), a Danish limited liability company. The total purchase price for MiR was approximately $197 million, which included cash paid of approximately $146 million and $51 million in fair value of contingent consideration payable upon achievement of revenue and earnings targets through 2020. The maximum amount of contingent consideration that could be paid is $118.9 million.  
Universal Robots, MiR and Energid are included in our Industrial Automation segment.  
 statement readers with enhanced disclosures. In accordance with ASC 606, revenue is recognized when or as a customer obtains control of promised goods or services. The amount of revenue recognized reflects the consideration to which we expect to be entitled to receive in exchange for fulfillment of the performance obligation. Our primary source of revenue will continue to be from the sale of systems, instruments, robots, and the delivery of services.  
In accordance with ASC 606, we recognize revenues, when or as control is transferred to a customer. Our determination of revenue is dependent upon a five step process outlined below.  
Transaction price is allocated to each individual performance obligation based on the standalone selling price of that performance obligation. We use standalone transactions when available to value each performance obligation. If standalone transactions are not available, we will estimate the standalone selling price through market assessments or cost plus a reasonable margin analysis. Any discounts from standalone selling price are spread over each performance obligation.  
In order to determine the appropriate timing for revenue recognition, we first determine if the transaction meets any of three criteria for over time recognition. If the transaction meets the criteria for over time recognition, we recognize revenue as the good or service is delivered. We use input variables such as hours or months utilized or costs incurred to determine the amount of revenue to recognize in a given period. Input variables are used as they best align consumption with benefit to the customer. For transactions that do not meet the criteria for over time recognition, we will recognize revenue at a point in time based on an assessment of the five criteria for transfer of control. We have concluded that revenue should be recognized when shipped or delivered based on contractual terms. Typically, acceptance of our products and services is a formality as we deliver similar systems, instruments, and robots to standard specifications. In cases where acceptance is not deemed a formality, we will wait for customer acceptance before recognizing revenue.  
 retrospectively adopted the new accounting guidance on presentation of net periodic pension costs and net periodic postretirement benefit costs in the first quarter of 2018. This guidance requires the service cost component of net benefit costs to be reported in the same line item in the consolidated statement of operations as other employee compensation costs. The non-service components of net benefit costs such as interest cost, expected return on assets, amortization of prior service cost, and actuarial gains or losses, are required to be reported separately outside of income or loss from operations. Following the adoption of this guidance, we continue to record the service cost component in the same line item as other employee compensation costs and the non-service components of net benefit costs such as interest cost, expected return on assets, amortization of prior service cost, and actuarial gains or losses are reported within other (income) expense, net. In the three months ended October 1, 2017, the retrospective adoption of this standard increased income from operations by $0.4 million due to the removal of net actuarial pension losses and decreased non-operating (income) expense by the same amount with no impact to net income. In the nine months ended October 1, 2017, the retrospective adoption of this standard decreased income from operations by $1.3 million due to the removal of net actuarial pension gains and increased non-operating (income) expense by the same amount with no impact to net income.  
The increase in Semiconductor Test revenues of $20.4 million, or 5.1%, was driven primarily by an increase in the memory test sales, partially offset by lower mobility test segment sales. The increase in Industrial Automation revenues of $25.8 million, or 64.0%, was due to higher demand for collaborative robotic arms and the acquisition of MiR, completed in April 2018. MiR added $6.5 million of revenue in the three months ended September 30, 2018. The increase in System Test revenues of $14.0 million, or 39.3%, was primarily due to higher sales in Storage Test of 3.5” hard disk drive and system level testers. The increase in Wireless Test revenues of $3.4 million, or 11.0%, was primarily due to higher demand for next generation wireless products, partially offset by lower demand for connectivity test systems.  
Revenues attributable to a country are based on location of customer site.  
Gross profit as a percent of revenue increased by 0.3 points, primarily due to favorable product mix.  
We assess the carrying value of our inventory on a quarterly basis by estimating future demand and comparing that demand against on-hand and on-order inventory positions. Forecasted revenue information is obtained from sales and marketing groups and incorporates factors such as backlog and future revenue demand. This quarterly process identifies obsolete and excess inventory. Obsolete inventory, which represents items for which there is no demand, is fully reserved. Excess inventory, which represents inventory items that are not expected to be consumed during the next twelve quarters for our Semiconductor Test, System Test and Industrial Automation segments and the next four quarters for our Wireless Test segment, is written-down to estimated net realizable value.  
During the three months ended September 30, 2018, we recorded an inventory provision of $3.3 million included in cost of revenues primarily due to downward revisions to previously forecasted demand levels. The $3.3 million of total excess and obsolete provisions was primarily related to Semiconductor Test ($2.1 million) and Wireless Test ($0.7 million).  
During the three months ended October 1, 2017, we recorded an inventory provision of $1.9 million included in cost of revenues primarily due to downward revisions to previously forecasted demand levels for certain products. The $1.9 million of total excess and obsolete provisions was primarily related to Semiconductor Test ($0.7 million) and Wireless Test ($0.7 million).  
During the three months ended September 30, 2018 and October 1, 2017, we scrapped $1.7 million and $1.2 million of inventory, respectively. During the three months ended September 30, 2018 and October 1, 2017, we sold $1.0 million and $3.1 million of previously written-down or written-off inventory, respectively. As of September 30, 2018, we had inventory related reserves for inventory, which had been written-down or written-off totaling $104.3 million. We have no pre-determined timeline to scrap the remaining inventory.  
The increase of $14.1 million in selling and administrative expenses was due primarily to higher spending in the Industrial Automation segment due to higher sales and marketing spending in Universal Robots and due to the acquisitions of MiR and Energid in 2018.  
The decrease in System Test engineering expenses was offset by an increase in engineering spending in Industrial Automation.  
Acquired intangible assets amortization expense increased primarily due to Industrial Automation segment acquisitions of MiR and Energid in 2018.  
During the three months ended September 30, 2018, we recorded $1.7 million for employee severance charges, primarily in Semiconductor Test, and $0.8 million of acquisition related compensation, partially offset by a $0.8 million gain for the decrease in the fair value of the Universal Robots contingent consideration liability.  
The increase in income before income taxes in Semiconductor Test was driven primarily by an increase in memory test sales partially offset by lower mobility segment sales. The increase in income before income taxes in System Test was primarily due to higher sales in Storage Test of 3.5” hard disk drive and system level testers. The increase in income before income taxes in Wireless Test was primarily due to higher demand for next generation wireless products, partially offset by lower demand for connectivity test systems. The decrease in income before income taxes in Industrial Automation was primarily due to increased intangible assets amortization expense from the acquisitions of MiR and Energid in 2018.  
The decrease in Semiconductor Test revenues of $194.9 million, or 14.5%, was driven primarily by a decrease in sales in the mobility, image sensor and microcontroller test segments, partially offset by an increase in memory test segment sales. The increase in Industrial Automation revenues of $61.1 million, or 52.8%, was due to higher demand for collaborative robotic arms and the acquisition of MiR, completed in April 2018. MiR added $11.1 million of revenue in the nine months ended September 30, 2018. The increase in System Test revenues of $50.2 million, or 44.8%, was primarily due to higher sales of 3.5” hard disk drive and system level testers in Storage Test. The increase in Wireless Test revenues of $8.2 million, or 9.8%, was primarily due to higher demand for next generation wireless products, partially offset by lower demand for connectivity test systems.  
Revenues attributable to a country are based on location of customer site.  
Gross profit as a percent of revenue increased by 0.2 points, primarily due to favorable product mix.  
We assess the carrying value of our inventory on a quarterly basis by estimating future demand and comparing that demand against on-hand and on-order inventory positions. Forecasted revenue information is obtained from sales and marketing groups and incorporates factors such as backlog and future revenue demand. This quarterly process identifies obsolete and excess inventory. Obsolete inventory, which represents items for which there is no demand, is fully reserved. Excess inventory, which represents inventory items that are not expected to be consumed during the next twelve quarters for our Semiconductor Test, System Test and Industrial Automation segments and the next four quarters for our Wireless Test segment, is written-down to estimated net realizable value.  
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we recorded an inventory provision of $9.5 million included in cost of revenues primarily due to downward revisions to previously forecasted demand levels. The $9.5 million of total excess and obsolete provisions was primarily related to Semiconductor ($5.9 million) and Wireless Test ($2.2 million).  
During the nine months ended October 1, 2017, we recorded an inventory provision of $7.2 million included in cost of revenues primarily due to downward revisions to previously forecasted demand levels for certain products. The $7.2 million of total excess and obsolete provisions was primarily related to Semiconductor Test ($3.7 million), Wireless Test ($1.7 million), and System Test ($1.6 million).  
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and October 1, 2017, we scrapped $3.2 million and $4.1 million of inventory, respectively. During the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and October 1, 2017, we sold $5.2 million and $6.4 million of previously written-down or written-off inventory, respectively. As of September 30, 2018, we had inventory related reserves for inventory, which had been written-down or written-off totaling $104.3 million. We have no pre-determined timeline to scrap the remaining inventory.  
Acquired intangible assets amortization expense increased primarily due to Industrial Automation segment acquisitions of MiR and Energid in 2018.  
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we recorded $7.9 million for employee severance charges, primarily in Semiconductor Test and Industrial Automation, and $4.1 million for acquisition related expenses and compensation, partially offset by a $9.2 million gain for the decrease in the fair value of the Universal Robots contingent consideration liability.  
During the nine months ended October 1, 2017, we recorded $2.0 million for employee severance charges, primarily in Industrial Automation and Corporate, $1.8 million for the increase in the fair value of the Universal Robots contingent consideration liability, $0.9 million for a lease impairment of a Wireless Test facility in Sunnyvale, CA, which was terminated in September 2017, and $0.8 million of Japan earthquake related expenses, partially offset by $5.1 million of property insurance recovery related to the Japan earthquake.  
Interest income increased by $6.3 million due primarily to higher interest rates in 2018. Interest expense increased by $1.8 million due primarily to realized losses on sales of marketable securities. Other (income) expense, net increased by $5 million due primarily to higher foreign exchange losses in 2018 and pension actuarial losses in 2018 compared to pension actuarial gains in 2017.  
The decrease in income before income taxes in Semiconductor Test was driven primarily by lower revenues due to a decrease in sales in the mobility, image sensor, and microcontroller test segments, partially offset by an increase in memory test segment sales. The increase in income before income taxes in System Test was primarily due to higher sales in Storage Test of 3.5” hard disk drive and system level testers. The increase in income before income taxes in Wireless Test was primarily due to higher demand for next generation wireless products, partially offset by lower demand for connectivity test systems. The increase in loss before income taxes in Industrial Automation was primarily due to an increase in intangible assets amortization expense from the acquisitions of MiR and Energid in 2018.  
The effective tax rate for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and October 1, 2017 was 13.6% and 14.7%, respectively. The decrease in the effective tax rate from the nine months ended October 1, 2017 to the nine months ended September 30, 2018 primarily resulted from the benefit of the U.S. foreign derived intangible income deduction. The tax rate effect of a projected shift in the geographic distribution of income, which increases the income subject to taxation in the U.S. relative to lower tax rate jurisdictions, was substantially offset by the reduction in the U.S. corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%.  
Our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances decreased by $579.3 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2018 to $1,324.4 million.  
Operating activities during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 provided cash of $290.5 million. Changes in operating assets and liabilities used cash of $151.1 million. This was due to a $140.6 million increase in operating assets and a $10.4 million decrease in operating liabilities.  
The decrease in operating liabilities was due to a $26.1 million decrease in accrued employee compensation due primarily to first quarter payments related to variable compensation, a $33.2 million decrease in income taxes, and $3.2 million of retirement plan contributions, partially offset by a $22.9 million increase in other accrued liabilities, a $19.4 million increase in accounts payable, and a $9.8 million increase in deferred revenue and customer advance payments.  
Operating activities during the nine months ended October 1, 2017 provided cash of $479.0 million. Changes in operating assets and liabilities provided cash of $6.3 million. This was due to a $50.8 million increase in operating liabilities partially offset by a $44.5 million increase in operating assets.  
The increase in operating liabilities was due to a $20.5 million increase in other accrued liabilities, a $15.8 million increase in income taxes, a $3.0 million increase in accrued employee compensation due primarily to variable compensation, and a $34.5 million increase in deferred revenue and customer advance payments, partially offset by an $18.1 million decrease in accounts payable and $4.9 million of retirement plan contributions.  
In January 2018, May 2018 and August 2018, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.09 per share. Dividend payments for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 were $51.3 million.  
In January 2017 and May 2017 and August 2017, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.07 per share. Dividend payments for the nine months ended October 1, 2017 were $41.7 million.  
In January 2018, our Board of Directors cancelled the December 2016 stock repurchase program and authorized a new stock repurchase program for up to $1.5 billion of common stock. We intend to repurchase $750 million in 2018. During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we repurchased 13.8 million shares of common stock for $562.3 million at an average price of $40.62 per share.  
In December 2016, our Board of Directors approved a $500 million share repurchase authorization, which commenced on January 1, 2017. During the nine months ended October 1, 2017, we repurchased 4.6 million shares of common stock for $151.8 million at an average price of $32.66 per share.  
While we declared a quarterly cash dividend and authorized a share repurchase program, we may reduce or eliminate the cash dividend or share repurchase program in the future. Future cash dividends and stock repurchases are subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors, which will consider, among other things, our earnings, capital requirements and financial condition.  
In January 2018, our Board of Directors cancelled the December 2016 stock repurchase program and authorized a new stock repurchase program for up to $1.5 billion of common stock. We intend to repurchase $750 million in 2018. During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we repurchased 13.8 million shares of common stock for $562.3 million at an average price of $40.62 per share.  
In December 2016, our Board of Directors approved a $500 million share repurchase authorization, which commenced on January 1, 2017. During the nine months ended October 1, 2017, we repurchased 4.3 million shares of common stock for $151.8 million at an average price of $32.66 per share.  
We satisfy U.S. federal and state minimum withholding tax obligations due upon the vesting and the conversion of restricted stock units into shares of our common stock, by automatically withholding from the shares being issued, a number of shares with an aggregate fair market value on the date of such vesting and conversion that would satisfy the minimum withholding amount due.  
