The accompanying financial information should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto contained in Teradyne’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on March 1, 2019, for the year ended December 31, 2018.  
 Improvements,” that allowed for a cumulative effect adjustment in the period of adoption. Under this method of adoption, the comparative information in the consolidated financial statements has not been revised and continues to be reported under the previously applicable lease accounting guidance (ASC 840). Teradyne also utilized the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance which included the carry-forward of historical lease classification. Adoption of ASC 842 resulted in recording ROU assets and lease liabilities of approximately $50.1 million and $54.3 million, respectively. Operating lease liabilities were calculated using the discount rate on January 1, 2019. The adoption of ASC 842 did not have a material impact on beginning retained earnings, the consolidated statement of operations, cash flows, or earnings per share.  
Teradyne determines if the lease is operating or finance at the lease commencement date based upon the terms of the lease and the nature of the asset. The lease term used to calculate the lease liability includes options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that the option will be exercised.  
On January 30, 2019, Teradyne acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of Lemsys SA (“Lemsys”) for a total purchase price of approximately $9.1 million. Lemsys strengthens Teradyne’s position in the electrification trends of vehicles, solar, wind, and industrial applications. The Lemsys acquisition was accounted for as a business combination and, accordingly, the results have been included in Teradyne’s Semiconductor Test segment from the date of acquisition. As of the acquisition date, Teradyne’s preliminary purchase price allocation was goodwill of $1.2 million, which is not deductible for tax purposes, acquired intangible assets of $5.5 million with an average estimated useful life of 4.9 years, and $2.4 million of net tangible assets. The acquisition was not material to Teradyne’s condensed consolidated financial statements.  
On April 25, 2018, Teradyne acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of Mobile Industrial Robots Aps (“MiR”), a Danish limited liability company located in Odense, Denmark. MiR is the leading maker of collaborative autonomous mobile robots for industrial applications. MiR is part of Teradyne’s Industrial Automation segment.  
The MiR acquisition was accounted for as a business combination and, accordingly, the results have been included in Teradyne’s consolidated results of operations from the date of acquisition. MiR’s products will help expand the Industrial Automation segment, which is a key component of Teradyne’s growth strategy. The allocation of the total purchase price to MiR’s net tangible liabilities and identifiable intangible assets was based on their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date. The excess of the purchase price over the identifiable intangible assets and net tangible liabilities in the amount of $136.0 million was allocated to goodwill, which is not deductible for tax purposes. MiR’s results have been included in Teradyne’s Industrial Automation segment from the date of acquisition.  
Pro forma results for the three months ended April 1, 2018 were adjusted to exclude $0.6 million of acquisition related costs.  
On February 26, 2018, Teradyne acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of Energid Technologies Corporation (“Energid”) for a total purchase price of approximately $27.6 million. Energid’s technology enables and simplifies the programming of complex robotic motions used in a wide variety of end markets, ranging from heavy industry to healthcare, utilizing both traditional robots and collaborative robots. The Energid acquisition was accounted for as a business combination and, accordingly, Energid’s results have been included in Teradyne’s Industrial Automation segment from the date of acquisition. As of the acquisition date, Teradyne’s purchase price allocation was goodwill of $14.4 million which is deductible for tax purposes, acquired intangible assets of $12.3 million with an average estimated useful life of 7.7 years, and $1.0 million of net tangible assets. The acquisition was not material to Teradyne’s condensed consolidated financial statements.  
For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and April 1, 2018, Teradyne also recognized $1.7 million and $4.3 million, respectively, of revenues from leases of Teradyne systems, which are accounted for outside of ASC 606.  
The following table provides information about disaggregated revenue by primary geographical market, major product line and timing of revenue recognition.  
The amount of revenue recognized during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and April 1, 2018 that was previously included within the deferred revenue and customer advances balance was $19.5 million and $21.8 million, respectively, and primarily relates to extended warranties, training, application support, and post contract support. Each of these represents a distinct performance obligation. Teradyne expects to recognize 72% of the remaining performance obligation in the next 12 months, 22% in 1-3 years, and the remainder thereafter.  
Teradyne sells certain trade accounts receivables on a non-recourse basis to third-party financial institutions pursuant to factoring agreements. Teradyne accounts for these transactions as sales of receivables and presents cash proceeds as a cash provided by operating activities in the consolidated statements of cash flows. Total trade accounts receivable sold under the factoring agreements were $41.7 million and $3.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and April 1, 2018, respectively. Factoring fees for the sales of receivables were recorded in interest expense and were not material.  
Inventory reserves at March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018 were $100.9 million and $100.8 million, respectively.  
Teradyne considers all highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less at the date of acquisition to be cash equivalents.  
Teradyne’s available-for-sale debt securities are classified as Level 2 and equity securities are classified as Level 1. Contingent consideration is classified as Level 3. The vast majority of Level 2 securities are fixed income securities priced by third party pricing vendors. These pricing vendors utilize the most recent observable market information in pricing these securities or, if specific prices are not available, use other observable inputs like market transactions involving identical or comparable securities.  
During the three months ended March 31, 2019 and April 1, 2018, there were no transfers in or out of Level 1, Level 2, or Level 3 financial instruments.  
Realized gains recorded in the three months ended March 31, 2019 and April 1, 2018 were $0.1 million and $0.3 million, respectively. Realized losses recorded in the three months ended March 31, 2019 and April 1, 2018 were $0.1 million and $1.5 million, respectively. Realized gains are included in interest income and realized losses are included in interest expense.  
Unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale debt securities are included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) on the balance sheet.  
The cost of securities sold is based on the specific identification method.  
The following table sets forth by fair value hierarchy Teradyne’s financial assets and liabilities that were measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018.  
In the three months ended March 31, 2019, the fair value of contingent consideration for the earn-out in connection with the acquisition of MiR was increased by $3.0 million. In the three months ended April 1, 2018, the fair value of contingent consideration for the earn-out in connection with the acquisition of Universal Robots was decreased by $5.0 million, primarily due to a decrease in forecasted revenue.  
The fair values of accounts receivable, net and accounts payable approximate the carrying value due to the short-term nature of these instruments.  
As of March 31, 2019, the fair market value of investments in available-for-sale securities with unrealized losses totaled $120.0 million. Of this value, $32.9 million had unrealized losses of $1.3 million for greater than one year and $87.1 million had unrealized losses of $0.1 million for less than one year.  
As of December 31, 2018, the fair market value of investments with unrealized losses totaled $192.0 million. Of this value, $28.5 million had unrealized losses of $1.6 million greater than one year and $163.5 million had unrealized losses of $1.4 million for less than one year.  
Contractual maturities of investments in available-for-sale securities held at March 31, 2019 exclude $3.3 million of debt mutual funds as they do not have a contractual maturity date.  
Teradyne conducts business in a number of foreign countries, with certain transactions denominated in local currencies. The purpose of Teradyne’s foreign currency management is to minimize the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on certain foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities. Teradyne does not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.  
The notional amount of foreign currency forward contracts at March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018 was $148.8 million and $163.1 million, respectively.  
The following table summarizes the effect of derivative instruments recognized in the statement of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and April 1, 2018.  
For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and April 1, 2018, net gains from the remeasurement of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies were $3.2 million and $0.6 million, respectively.  
On January 1, 2019, Teradyne adopted ASC 842 using the modified retrospective approach. Under this method of adoption, the comparative information in the consolidated financial statements has not been revised and continues to be reported under the previously applicable lease accounting guidance (ASC 840). Adoption of ASC 842 resulted in recording ROU assets and lease liabilities of approximately $50.1 million and $54.3 million, respectively. The adoption of ASC 842 did not have a material impact on beginning retained earnings, the consolidated statement of operations, cash flows, or earnings per share.  
Teradyne has facility and auto leases, which are accounted for as operating leases. Teradyne’s facility leases are primarily used for administrative functions, research and development, manufacturing, and storage and distribution. Remaining lease terms range from less than one year to ten years.  
On December 12, 2016, Teradyne completed a private offering of $460.0 million aggregate principal amount of 1.25% convertible senior unsecured notes (the “Notes”) due December 15, 2023 and received net proceeds, after issuance costs, of approximately $450.8 million, $33.0 million of which was used to pay the net cost of the convertible note hedge transactions and $50.1 million of which was used to repurchase 2.0 million shares of Teradyne’s common stock under its existing stock repurchase program from purchasers of the Notes in privately negotiated transactions effected through one of the initial purchasers or its affiliates conducted concurrently with the pricing of the Note offering. The Notes will mature on December 15, 2023, unless earlier repurchased or converted. The Notes bear interest from December 12, 2016 at a rate of 1.25% per year payable  
Concurrent with the offering of the Notes, Teradyne entered into convertible note hedge transactions (the “Note Hedge Transactions”) with the initial purchasers or their affiliates (the “Option Counterparties”). The Note Hedge Transactions cover, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, the number of shares of the common stock that underlie the Notes, with a strike price equal to the conversion price of the Notes of $31.70. The Note Hedge Transactions cover, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, approximately 14.5 million shares of Teradyne’s common stock.  
Teradyne considered the guidance of ASC 815-40, “Derivatives and Hedging—Contracts in Entity’s Own Equity,” and concluded that the convertible note hedge is both indexed to Teradyne’s common stock and should be classified in stockholders’ equity in its statements of financial position. The convertible note hedge is  
 considered indexed to Teradyne’s common stock as the terms of the Note Hedge Transactions do not contain an exercise contingency and the settlement amount equals the difference between the fair value of a fixed number of Teradyne’s shares and a fixed strike price. Because the only variable that can affect the settlement amount is Teradyne’s stock price, which is an input to the fair value of a fixed-for-fixed option contract, the convertible note hedge is considered indexed to Teradyne’s common stock.  
The provisions of ASC 470-20, “Debt with Conversion and Other Options,” are applicable to the Notes. ASC 470-20 requires Teradyne to separately account for the liability (debt) and equity (conversion feature) components of the Notes in a manner that reflects Teradyne’s nonconvertible debt borrowing rate at the date of issuance when interest cost is recognized in subsequent periods. Teradyne allocated $100.8 million of the $460.0 million principal amount of the Notes to the equity component, which represents a discount to the debt and will be amortized to interest expense using the effective interest method through December 2023. Accordingly, Teradyne’s effective annual interest rate on the Notes will be approximately 5.0%. The Notes are classified as long-term debt in the balance sheet based on their December 15, 2023 maturity date. Debt issuance costs of approximately $7.2 million are being amortized to interest expense using the effective interest method over the seven year term of the Notes. As of March 31, 2019, debt issuance costs were approximately $5.1 million.  
As of March 31, 2019, the remaining unamortized discount was $76.4 million, which will be amortized over 4.7 years using the effective interest rate method. The carrying amount of the equity component was $100.8 million. As of March 31, 2019, the if-converted value of the Notes was $578.1 million.  
On April 27, 2015, Teradyne entered into a Credit Agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) with Barclays Bank PLC, as administrative agent and collateral agent, and the lenders party thereto. The Credit Agreement provides for a five-year, senior secured revolving credit facility of up to $350 million (the “Credit Facility”). The Credit Agreement further provides that, subject to customary conditions, Teradyne may seek to obtain from existing or new lenders incremental commitments under the Credit Facility in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $150 million.  
Teradyne is not required to repay any loans under the Credit Facility prior to maturity, subject to certain customary exceptions. Teradyne is permitted to prepay all or any portion of the loans under the Credit Facility prior to maturity without premium or penalty, other than customary LIBOR breakage costs.  
Teradyne generally provides a one-year warranty on its products, commencing upon installation, acceptance, delivery or shipment. A provision is recorded upon revenue recognition to cost of revenues for estimated warranty expense based on historical experience. Related costs are charged to the warranty accrual as incurred. The warranty balance below is included in other accrued liabilities on the balance sheet.  
Teradyne grants performance-based restricted stock units (“PRSUs”) to its executive officers with a performance metric based on relative total shareholder return (“TSR”). Teradyne’s three-year TSR performance is measured against the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) Composite Index. The final number of TSR PRSUs that vest will vary based upon the level of performance achieved from 200% to 0% of the target shares capped at four times the grant date value. The TSR PRSUs will vest upon the three-year anniversary of the grant date. The TSR PRSUs are valued using a Monte Carlo simulation model. The number of units expected to be earned, based upon the achievement of the TSR market condition, is factored into the grant date Monte Carlo valuation. Compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the three-year service period or the period from the grant to the date described in the retirement provisions below. Compensation expense for employees meeting the retirement provisions prior to the grant date will be recognized in full on the date of the grant. Compensation expense is recognized regardless of the eventual number of units that are earned based upon the market condition, provided the executive officer remains an employee at the end of the three-year period. Compensation expense is reversed if at any time during the three-year service period the executive officer is no longer an employee, subject to the retirement and termination eligibility provisions noted below.  
In January 2019 and 2018, Teradyne granted PRSUs to its executive officers with a performance metric based on three-year cumulative non-GAAP profit before interest and tax (“PBIT”) as a percent of Teradyne’s revenue. Non-GAAP PBIT is a financial measure equal to GAAP income from operations less restructuring and other, net; amortization of acquired intangible assets; acquisition and divestiture related charges or credits; pension actuarial gains and losses; non-cash convertible debt interest expense; and other non-recurring gains and charges. The final number of PBIT PRSUs that vest will vary based upon the level of performance achieved from 200% to 0% of the target shares. The PBIT PRSUs will vest upon the three-year anniversary of the grant date. Compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the three year service period or the period from the grant date to the date described in the retirement provisions below. Compensation expense for employees meeting the retirement provisions prior to the grant date will be recognized in full on the date of grant. Compensation expense is recognized based on the number of units that are earned based upon the three-year Teradyne PBIT as a percent of Teradyne’s revenue, provided the executive officer remains an employee at the end of the three-year period subject to the retirement and termination eligibility provisions noted below.  
If a PRSU recipient’s employment ends prior to the determination of the performance percentage due to (1) permanent disability or death or (2) retirement or termination other than for cause, after attaining both at least age sixty and at least ten years of service, then all or a portion of the recipient’s PRSUs (based on the actual performance percentage achieved on the determination date) will vest on the date the performance percentage is determined. Except as set forth in the preceding sentence, no PRSUs will vest if the executive officer is no longer an employee at the end of the three-year period.  
Expected volatility was based on the historical volatility of Teradyne’s stock and the NYSE Composite Index for the 2019 and 2018 grant over the most recent three-year period. The risk-free interest rate was determined using the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant. Dividend yield was based upon an estimated annual dividend amount of $0.36 per share for 2019 grants and 2018 grants, divided by Teradyne’s stock price on the grant date of $36.75 for the 2019 grant and $47.70 for the 2018 grant.  
During the three months ended March 31, 2019 and April 1, 2018, Teradyne granted 0.1 million and 0.1 million, respectively, of PBIT PRSUs with a grant date fair value of $35.67 and $46.62, respectively.  
During the three months ended March 31, 2019, Teradyne granted 0.6 million of service-based restricted stock unit awards to employees at a weighted average grant date fair value of $35.88 and 0.1 million of service-based stock options to executive officers at a weighted average grant date fair value of $10.26.  
During the three months ended April 1, 2018, Teradyne granted 0.5 million of service-based restricted stock unit awards to employees at a weighted average grant date fair value of $46.58 and 0.1 million of service-based stock options to executive officers at a weighted average grant date fair value of $12.17.  
Teradyne determined the stock options’ expected life based upon historical exercise data for executive officers, the age of the executive officers and the terms of the stock option grant. Volatility was determined using historical volatility for a period equal to the expected life. The risk-free interest rate was determined using the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant. Dividend yield was based upon an estimated annual dividend amount of $0.36 per share for 2019 and 2018 grants divided by Teradyne’s stock price on the grant date of $36.75 for the 2019 grant and $47.70 for the 2018 grant.  
Teradyne performs its annual goodwill impairment test as required under the provisions of ASC 350-10, “Intangibles—Goodwill and Other” on December 31 of each fiscal year unless interim indicators of impairment exist. Goodwill is considered impaired when the net book value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value.  
Includes $5.5 million of intangible assets from Lemsys acquisition.  
Aggregate intangible asset amortization expense was $10.6 million and $7.7 million, for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and April 1, 2018, respectively.  
Incremental shares from assumed conversion of the convertible notes was calculated using the difference between the average Teradyne stock price for the period and the conversion price of $31.70, multiplied by 14.5 million shares. The result of this calculation, representing the total intrinsic value of the convertible debt, was divided by the average Teradyne stock price for the period.  
The computation of diluted net income per common share for the three months ended March 31, 2019 excludes the effect of the potential vesting of 0.6 million of restricted stock units because the effect would have been anti-dilutive.  
The computation of diluted net income per common share for the three months ended April 1, 2018 excludes the effect of the potential vesting of 0.4 million shares of restricted stock units because the effect would have been anti-dilutive.  
During the three months ended April 1, 2018, Teradyne recorded a $5.0 million credit for the decrease in the fair value of the Universal Robots contingent consideration liability, partially offset by $3.9 million recorded for employee severance charges, primarily in Semiconductor Test, and $0.8 million of acquisition related expenses.  
In the three months ended March 31, 2019, Teradyne contributed $0.7 million to the U.S. supplemental executive defined benefit pension plan and $0.2 million to certain qualified pension plans for non-U.S. subsidiaries.  
In addition to receiving pension benefits, Teradyne employees in the United States who meet early retirement eligibility requirements as of their termination dates may participate in Teradyne’s Welfare Plan, which includes medical and dental benefits up to age 65. Death benefits provide a fixed sum to retirees’ survivors and are available to all retirees. Substantially all of Teradyne’s current U.S. employees could become eligible for these benefits, and the existing benefit obligation relates primarily to those employees.  
As of March 31, 2019, Teradyne had entered into purchase commitments for certain components and materials. The purchase commitments covered by the agreements aggregate to approximately $263.0 million, of which $255.3 million is for less than one year.  
The effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and April 1, 2018 was (16.1)% and 9.2%, respectively.  
Discrete tax items recorded in the three months ended April 1, 2018 amounted to $6.0 million of net benefit. The $6.0 million of discrete tax benefit consisted of $7.6 million of benefit from stock based compensation, $1.7 million of expense from the write down of deferred tax assets as a result of reductions in tax rates, $0.7 million of other discrete tax benefits and $0.6 million of other discrete tax expenses.  
As of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, Teradyne had $13.5 million and $43.4 million, respectively, of reserves for uncertain tax positions. The $29.9 million net decrease in reserves for uncertain tax positions is composed of reductions in uncertain tax positions amounting to $22.4 million related to transfer pricing and $7.4 million associated with U.S. research and development tax credits. These reductions resulted from the conclusion of the U.S. Federal income tax audit for the year ended December 31, 2015.  
Teradyne recognizes interest and penalties related to income tax matters in income tax expense. As of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, $0.6 million and $0.3 million, respectively, of interest and penalties were accrued for uncertain tax positions. For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and April 1, 2018, expense of $0.3 million and $0.1 million, respectively, was recorded for interest and penalties related to income tax items.  
Teradyne qualifies for a tax holiday in Singapore by fulfilling the requirements of an agreement with the Singapore Economic Development Board under which certain headcount and spending requirements must be met. The tax savings due to the tax holiday for the three months ended March 31, 2019 was $2.1 million, or $0.01 per diluted share. The tax savings due to the tax holiday for the three months ended April 1, 2018 was $3.0 million, or $0.01 per diluted share. The tax holiday is scheduled to expire on December 31, 2020.  
 manufacturing and marketing of collaborative robotic arms, autonomous mobile robots and advanced robotic control software. The Wireless Test segment includes operations related to the design, manufacturing and marketing of wireless test products and services.  
Total business assets are directly attributable to each business. Corporate assets consist of cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and certain other assets.  
In January 2018, Teradyne’s Board of Directors cancelled the December 2016 stock repurchase program and authorized a new stock repurchase program for up to $1.5 billion of common stock. Teradyne intends to repurchase $500 million in 2019.  
During the three months ended March 31, 2019, Teradyne repurchased 4.5 million shares of common stock for $156.5 million at an average price of $35.12 per share. The cumulative repurchases under the $1.5 billion stock repurchase program as of March 31, 2019 totaled 26.1 million shares of common stock for $979.9 million at an average price per share of $37.55.  
During the three months ended April 1, 2018, Teradyne repurchased 2.9 million shares of common stock for $134.3 million at an average price of $45.69 per share.  
The total price includes commissions and is recorded as a reduction to retained earnings.  
Holders of Teradyne’s common stock are entitled to receive dividends when they are declared by Teradyne’s Board of Directors.  
In January 2019, Teradyne’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.09 per share. Dividend payments for the three months ended March 31, 2019 were $15.6 million.  
In January 2018, Teradyne’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.09 per share. Dividend payments for the three months ended April 1, 2018 were $17.6 million.  
While Teradyne declared a quarterly cash dividend and authorized a share repurchase program, it may reduce or eliminate the cash dividend or share repurchase program in the future. Future cash dividends and stock repurchases are subject to the discretion of Teradyne’s Board of Directors, which will consider, among other things, Teradyne’s earnings, capital requirements and financial condition.  
