The accompanying financial information should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto contained in Teradyne’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on March 1, 2018, for the year ended December 31, 2017.  
Teradyne adopted Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” (“ASC 606”) on January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method for all contracts not completed as of the date of adoption. The reported results for 2018 reflect the application of ASC 606 while the reported results for 2017 were prepared under the guidance of ASC 605, “Revenue Recognition” (“ASC 605”), which is also referred to herein as “Legacy GAAP” or the “previous guidance.” Teradyne recorded a net increase  
In accordance with ASC 606, Teradyne recognizes revenues, when or as control is transferred to a customer. Teradyne’s determination of revenue is dependent upon a five step process outlined below.  
Teradyne accounts for a contract with a customer when there is written approval, the contract is committed, the rights of the parties, including payment terms, are identified, the contract has commercial substance and consideration is probable of collection.  
Teradyne considers the amount stated on the face of the purchase order to be the transaction price. Teradyne does not have material variable consideration which could impact the stated purchase price agreed to by Teradyne and the customer.  
Transaction price is allocated to each individual performance obligation based on the standalone selling price of that performance obligation. Teradyne uses standalone transactions when available to value each performance obligation. If standalone transactions are not available, Teradyne will estimate the standalone selling price through market assessments or cost plus a reasonable margin analysis. Any discounts from standalone selling price are spread proportionally to each performance obligation.  
In order to determine the appropriate timing for revenue recognition, Teradyne first determines if the transaction meets any of three criteria for over time recognition. If the transaction meets the criteria for over time recognition, Teradyne recognizes revenue as the good or service is delivered. Teradyne uses input variables such as hours or months utilized or costs incurred to determine the amount of revenue to recognize in a given period. Input variables are used as they best align consumption with benefit to the customer. For transactions that do not meet the criteria for over time recognition, Teradyne will recognize revenue at a point in time based on an assessment of the five criteria for transfer of control. Teradyne has concluded that revenue should be recognized when shipped or delivered based on contractual terms. Typically acceptance of Teradyne’s products and services is a formality as Teradyne delivers similar systems, instruments and robots to standard specifications. In cases where acceptance is not deemed a formality, Teradyne will defer revenue recognition until customer acceptance.  
Revenue recognized in accordance with ASC 606 was $564.5 million and $1,571.0 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, Teradyne also recognized $2.3 million and $10.2 million, respectively, in revenue on leases of Teradyne systems, which are accounted for outside of ASC 606.  
The following table provides information about disaggregated revenue by primary geographical market, major product line and timing of revenue recognition.  
Customers have the option to purchase an extended warranty, which extends the warranty period for systems and robots beyond the one-year standard warranty. The extended warranty is purchased in the same transaction as the system or robot purchase and is classified as a separate performance obligation, which meets the criteria for over time recognition. The relative standalone selling price of the extended warranty is recognized ratably over the course of the extended warranty based on months completed.  
Teradyne sells training and applications support to customers either in standalone transactions or included with system purchases. The training and support allow the customer to use Teradyne’s systems efficiently and effectively. Training and applications support included in system orders are valued based on their standalone selling price and all training and applications support is recognized over time as the customer receives and consumes the benefit associated with each. Both are recognized using an input method of hours consumed as this best depicts the transfer of services to the customer.  
Teradyne provides support services for certain systems and robots outside of warranty. These services include telephone support, bug fixes, and when-and-if available upgrades. Standalone selling price for PCS is not directly observable as Teradyne does not sell these services separately. Teradyne has estimated the standalone selling price for these services based on adjusted market assessments. Revenue for PCS is recognized ratably over the performance period.  
Teradyne does not allow customer returns or provide refunds to customers for any products or services.  
The following table provides information about contract liabilities. Teradyne does not have material contract assets on the balance sheet.  
The amount of revenue recognized during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 that was previously included within the deferred revenue and customer advances was $24.5 million and $70.9 million, respectively, and primarily relates to extended warranties, training, application support, and PCS. Each of these represents a distinct performance obligation. Customers typically pay for these services net 30 to 60 days from the date that transfer of control of the associated system or product occurs.  
Teradyne does not have material remaining performance obligations from contracts with an original expected duration of greater than one year.  
Teradyne makes no significant judgments in determining the amount or timing of revenue recognition.  
The following tables summarize the impact of ASC 606 to Teradyne’s consolidated financial statements. Differences are the result of timing differences between the recognition of revenue under ASC 606 and ASC 605 primarily with respect to software transactions deferred due to lack of vendor specific objective evidence of price under ASC 605 and Teradyne’s assessment of acceptance under ASC 606. Under Legacy GAAP, Teradyne did not recognize revenue prior to acceptance if payment, title, or risk of loss was tied to acceptance. Under ASC 606, Teradyne recognizes revenue prior to receipt of acceptance if acceptance is deemed a formality.  
 accounting guidance in the first quarter of 2018 using the modified retrospective approach. This guidance requires that changes in fair value of equity securities be accounted for directly in earnings. Previously, the changes in fair value were recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income on the balance sheet. Teradyne continues to record realized gains in interest income and realized losses in interest expense. The adoption of this new accounting guidance increased the January 1, 2018 retained earnings balance by $3.1 million and decreased the accumulated other comprehensive income balance by the same amount.  
On April 25, 2018, Teradyne acquired all the issued and outstanding shares of Mobile Industrial Robots ApS (“MiR”), a Danish limited liability company located in Odense, Denmark. MiR is the leading maker of collaborative autonomous mobile robots for industrial applications. MiR is part of Teradyne’s Industrial Automation segment.  
The MiR acquisition was accounted for as a business combination and, accordingly, the results have been included in Teradyne’s consolidated results of operations from the date of acquisition. The allocation of the preliminary total purchase price to MiR’s net tangible liabilities and identifiable intangible assets was based on their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date. The excess of the purchase price over the identifiable intangible assets and net tangible liabilities in the amount of $134.7 million was allocated to goodwill, which is not deductible for tax purposes. The purchase price and purchase price allocation are preliminary pending the final determination of the fair value of contingent consideration, acquired assets and assumed liabilities. Teradyne expects to finalize the purchase price calculation in the fourth quarter of 2018. MiR’s results have been included in Teradyne’s Industrial Automation segment from the date of acquisition.  
For the three months ended September 30, 2018, MiR contributed $6.5 million of revenues and had a $(3.8) million loss from operations before income taxes.  
For the period from April 25, 2018 to September 30, 2018, MiR contributed $11.1 million of revenues and had a $(5.4) million loss from operations before income taxes.  
Pro forma results for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 were adjusted to exclude $2.9 million of acquisition related costs, and $0.4 million of non-recurring expense related to fair value adjustment to acquisition-date inventory.  
Pro forma results for the nine months ended October 1, 2017 were adjusted to include $2.9 million of acquisition related costs and $0.4 million of non-recurring expense related to fair value adjustment to acquisition-date inventory.  
On February 26, 2018, Teradyne acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of Energid Technologies Corporation (“Energid”) for a total purchase price of approximately $27.6 million. Energid’s technology enables and simplifies the programming of complex robotic motions used in a wide variety of end markets, ranging from heavy industry to healthcare, utilizing both traditional robots and collaborative robots. The Energid acquisition was accounted for as a business combination and, accordingly, Energid’s results have been included in Teradyne’s Industrial Automation segment from the date of acquisition. As of the acquisition date, Teradyne’s purchase price allocation was goodwill of $14.4 million, acquired intangible assets of $12.3 million with an average estimated useful life of 7.7 years, and $1.0 million of net tangible assets. The acquisition was not material to Teradyne’s condensed consolidated financial statements.  
Inventory reserves at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017 were $104.3 million and $102.9 million, respectively.  
Teradyne considers all highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less at the date of acquisition to be cash equivalents.  
The intent and ability to retain the investment in the issuer for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value.  
Teradyne’s available-for-sale debt securities are classified as Level 2, and equity securities are classified as Level 1. Acquisition-related contingent consideration is classified as Level 3. Teradyne determines the fair value of acquisition-related contingent consideration using a Monte Carlo simulation model. Assumptions utilized in the model include forecasted revenues, revenue volatility, earnings before interest and taxes, and discount rate. The vast majority of Level 2 securities are fixed income securities priced by third party pricing vendors. These pricing vendors utilize the most recent observable market information in pricing these securities or, if specific prices are not available, use other observable inputs like market transactions involving identical or comparable securities.  
During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and October 1, 2017, there were no transfers in or out of Level 1, Level 2, or Level 3 financial instruments.  
Realized gains related to available-for-sale debt securities recorded in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 were $0.2 million, $0.6 million, respectively. Realized losses related to available-for-sale debt securities recorded in the nine months ended September 30, 2018 were $1.6 million. Realized gains related to available-for-sale debt securities recorded in the three and nine months ended October 1, 2017 were $0.2 million and $0.7 million, respectively. Realized losses related to available-for-sale debt securities recorded in the nine months ended October 1, 2017 were $0.3 million.  
Realized gains related to available-for-sale debt securities are included in interest income and realized losses are included in interest expense. Unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale debt securities are included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).  
Unrealized gains related to equity securities held at September 30, 2018 recorded in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 were $1.0 million and $1.4 million, respectively. Unrealized and realized gains related to equity securities are included in interest income and unrealized and realized losses are included in interest expense.  
The cost of securities sold is based on the specific identification method.  
The following table sets forth by fair value hierarchy Teradyne’s financial assets and liabilities that were measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017.  
In the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, the fair value of contingent consideration for the earn-out in connection with the acquisition of Universal Robots was decreased by $0.8 million and $9.2 million, respectively, primarily due to a decrease in forecasted revenue. In the nine months ended October 1, 2017, the fair value of contingent consideration for the earn-out in connection with the acquisition of Universal Robots was increased by $1.8 million due to an increase in forecasted revenue.  
As of September 30, 2018, the significant unobservable inputs used in the Monte Carlo simulation to fair value the Universal Robots contingent consideration include forecasted revenue, revenue volatility, and discount rate. Increases or decreases in the inputs would result in a higher or lower fair value measurement. The maximum payment for the remaining Universal Robots revenue earn-out is $25.0 million.  
As of September 30, 2018, the fair market value of investments in available-for-sale securities with unrealized losses totaled $461.3 million. Of this value, $76.1 million had unrealized losses of $2.1 million for greater than one year and $385.3 million had unrealized losses of $1.3 million for less than one year.  
As of December 31, 2017, the fair market value of investments with unrealized losses totaled $1,350.9 million. Of this value, $141.0 million had unrealized losses of $1.2 million for greater than one year and $1,209.9 million had unrealized losses of $2.2 million for less than one year.  
Contractual maturities of investments in available-for-sale securities held at September 30, 2018 exclude $3.1 million of debt mutual funds as they do not have a contractual maturity date.  
Teradyne conducts business in a number of foreign countries, with certain transactions denominated in local currencies. The purpose of Teradyne’s foreign currency management is to minimize the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on certain foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities. Teradyne does not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.  
The notional amount of foreign currency forward contracts at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017 was $166.6 million and $116.8 million, respectively.  
The following table summarizes the effect of derivative instruments recognized in the statement of operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and October 1, 2017.  
For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, net losses from the remeasurement of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies were $3.7 million and $1.2 million, respectively.  
For the three and nine months ended October 1, 2017, net losses from the remeasurement of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies were $1.4 million and $2.3 million, respectively.  
Concurrent with the offering of the Notes, Teradyne entered into convertible note hedge transactions (the “Note Hedge Transactions”) with the initial purchasers or their affiliates (the “Option Counterparties”). The Note Hedge Transactions cover, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, the number of shares of the common stock that underlie the Notes, with a strike price equal to the conversion price of the Notes of approximately $31.80. The Note Hedge Transactions cover, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, approximately 14.5 million shares of Teradyne’s common stock.  
The convertible note hedge is considered indexed to Teradyne’s stock as the terms of the Note Hedge Transactions do not contain an exercise contingency and the settlement amount equals the difference between the fair value of a fixed number of Teradyne’s shares and a fixed strike price. Because the only variable that can affect the settlement amount is Teradyne’s stock price, which is an input to the fair value of a fixed-for-fixed option contract, the convertible note hedge is considered indexed to Teradyne’s stock.  
Teradyne’s effective annual interest rate on the Notes will be approximately 5.0%. The Notes are classified as long-term debt in the balance sheet based on their December 15, 2023 maturity date. Debt issuance costs of approximately $7.2 million are being amortized to interest expense using the effective interest method over the seven year term of the Notes. As of September 30, 2018, unamortized debt issuance costs were approximately $5.6 million.  
On April 27, 2015, Teradyne entered into a Credit Agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) with Barclays Bank PLC, as administrative agent and collateral agent, and the lenders party thereto. The Credit Agreement provides for a five-year, senior secured revolving credit facility of up to $350 million (the “Credit Facility”). The Credit Agreement further provides that, subject to customary conditions, Teradyne may seek to obtain from existing or new lenders incremental commitments under the Credit Facility in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $150 million.  
Teradyne is not required to repay any loans under the Credit Facility prior to maturity, subject to certain customary exceptions. Teradyne is permitted to prepay all or any portion of the loans under the Credit Facility prior to maturity without premium or penalty, other than customary LIBOR breakage costs.  
Teradyne generally provides a one-year warranty on its products, commencing upon installation, acceptance, delivery or shipment. A provision is recorded upon revenue recognition to cost of revenues for  
 estimated warranty expense based on historical experience. Related costs are charged to the warranty accrual as incurred. The warranty balance below is included in other accrued liabilities on the balance sheet.  
Commencing in January 2014, Teradyne granted performance-based restricted stock units (“PRSUs”) to its executive officers with a performance metric based on relative total shareholder return (“TSR”). For TSR grants issued in 2018 and 2017, Teradyne’s three-year TSR performance is measured against the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) Composite Index. The final number of TSR PRSUs that vest will vary based upon the level of performance achieved from 200% to 0% of the target shares capped at four times the grant date value. The TSR PRSUs will vest upon the three-year anniversary of the grant date. The TSR PRSUs are valued using a Monte Carlo simulation model. The number of units expected to be earned, based upon the achievement of the TSR market condition, is factored into the grant date Monte Carlo valuation. Compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the three-year service period or the period from the grant date to the date described in the retirement provisions below. Compensation expense for employees meeting the  
 retirement provisions prior to the grant date will be recognized in full on the date of the grant. Compensation expense is recognized regardless of the eventual number of units that are earned based upon the market condition, provided the executive officer remains an employee at the end of the three-year period. Compensation expense is reversed if at any time during the three-year service period the executive officer is no longer an employee, subject to the retirement and termination eligibility provisions noted below.  
In January 2018 and 2017, Teradyne granted PRSUs to its executive officers with a performance metric based on three-year cumulative non-GAAP profit before interest and tax (“PBIT”) as a percent of Teradyne’s revenue. Non-GAAP PBIT is a financial measure equal to GAAP income from operations less restructuring and other, net; amortization of acquired intangible assets; acquisition and divestiture related charges or credits; pension actuarial gains and losses; non-cash convertible debt interest expense; and other non-recurring gains and charges. The final number of PBIT PRSUs that vest will vary based upon the level of performance achieved from 200% to 0% of the target shares. The PBIT PRSUs will vest upon the three-year anniversary of the grant date. Compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the three year service period or the period from the grant date to the date described in the retirement provisions below. Compensation expense for employees meeting the retirement provisions prior to the grant date will be recognized in full on the date of grant. Compensation expense is recognized based on the number of units that are earned based upon the three-year Teradyne PBIT as a percent of Teradyne’s revenue, provided the executive officer remains an employee at the end of the three-year period subject to the retirement and termination eligibility provisions noted below.  
Beginning with PRSUs granted in January 2014, if the recipient’s employment ends prior to the determination of the performance percentage due to (1) permanent disability or death or (2) retirement or termination other than for cause, after attaining both at least age sixty and at least ten years of service, then all or a portion of the recipient’s PRSUs (based on the actual performance percentage achieved on the determination date) will vest on the date the performance percentage is determined. Except as set forth in the preceding sentence, no PRSUs will vest if the executive officer is no longer an employee at the end of the three-year period.  
Expected volatility was based on the historical volatility of Teradyne’s stock and the NYSE Composite Index for the 2018 and 2017 grant over the most recent three-year period. The risk-free interest rate was determined using the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant. Dividend yield was based upon an estimated annual dividend amount of $0.36 per share for 2018 grants and $0.28 per share for 2017 grants, divided by Teradyne’s stock price on the grant date of $47.70 for the 2018 grant and $28.56 for the 2017 grant.  
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and October 1, 2017, Teradyne granted 0.1 million and 0.1 million, respectively, of PBIT PRSUs with a grant date fair value of $46.62 and $27.72, respectively.  
During the nine months ended October 1, 2017, Teradyne granted 0.8 million of service-based restricted stock unit awards to employees at a weighted average grant date fair value of $28.03, 0.1 million of service-based restricted stock unit awards to non- employee directors at a weighted average grant date fair value of $34.48, and 0.1 million of service-based stock options to executive officers at a weighted average grant date fair value of $7.13.  
Teradyne determined the stock options’ expected life based upon historical exercise data for executive officers, the age of the executive officers and the terms of the stock option grant. Volatility was determined using historical volatility for a period equal to the expected life. The risk-free interest rate was determined using the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant. Dividend yield was based upon an estimated annual dividend amount of $0.36 per share for 2018 grants and $0.28 per share for 2017 grants divided by Teradyne’s stock price on the grant date of $47.70 for the 2018 grant and $28.56 for the 2017 grant.  
Teradyne performs its annual goodwill impairment test as required under the provisions of ASC 350-10, “Intangibles—Goodwill and Other” on December 31 of each fiscal year unless interim indicators of impairment exist. Goodwill is considered impaired when the net book value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value.  
Includes intangible assets acquired in 2018, $80.7 million from the MiR acquisition and $12.3 million from the Energid acquisition.  
In 2018, $0.3 million of amortizable intangible assets became fully amortized and have been eliminated from the gross carrying amount and accumulated amortization.  
Aggregate intangible asset amortization expense was $11.1 million and $28.6 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and $7.0 million and $23.1 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended October 1, 2017.  
Incremental shares from assumed conversion of the convertible notes was calculated using the difference between the average Teradyne stock price for the period and the conversion price of $31.80, multiplied by 14.5 million shares. The result of this calculation, representing the total intrinsic value of the convertible debt, was divided by the average Teradyne stock price for the period.  
Convertible notes hedge warrant shares were calculated using the difference between the average Teradyne stock price for the period and the warrant price of $39.91, multiplied by 14.5 million shares. The result of this calculation, representing the total intrinsic value of the warrant, was divided by the average Teradyne stock price for the period.  
The computation of diluted net income per common share for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 excludes the effect of the potential vesting of 0.5 million of restricted stock units because the effect would have been anti-dilutive.  
During the three months ended September 30, 2018, Teradyne recorded $1.7 million for employee severance charges, primarily in Semiconductor Test, and $0.8 million of acquisition related compensation, partially offset by a $0.8 million gain for the decrease in the fair value of the Universal Robots contingent consideration liability.  
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, Teradyne recorded $7.9 million for employee severance charges, primarily in Semiconductor Test, and $4.1 million for acquisition related expenses and compensation, partially offset by a $9.2 million gain for the decrease in the fair value of the Universal Robots contingent consideration liability.  
During the three months ended October 1, 2017, Teradyne recorded $5.1 million of property insurance recovery related to the Japan earthquake, a $0.4 million credit related to a previously impaired lease termination of a Wireless Test facility in Sunnyvale, CA, which was terminated in September 2017, and a $0.3 million credit for the decrease in the fair value of the Universal Robots contingent consideration liability, partially offset by $0.8 million of Japan earthquake related expenses and $0.6 million recorded for employee severance charges, primarily in Semiconductor Test.  
During the nine months ended October 1, 2017, Teradyne recorded $2.0 million for employee severance charges, primarily in Industrial Automation and Corporate, $1.8 million for the increase in the fair value of the Universal Robots contingent consideration liability, $0.9 million for a lease impairment of a Wireless Test facility in Sunnyvale, CA, which was terminated in September 2017, and $0.8 million of Japan earthquake related expenses, partially offset by $5.1 million of property insurance recovery related to the Japan earthquake.  
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, Teradyne purchased a group annuity contract for its retiree participants in the U.S. qualified pension plan. Under the group annuity, the accrued pension obligations  
In the nine months ended September 30, 2018, Teradyne contributed $1.9 million to the U.S. supplemental executive defined benefit pension plan and $0.6 million to certain qualified pension plans for non-U.S. subsidiaries.  
In addition to receiving pension benefits, Teradyne employees in the United States who meet early retirement eligibility requirements as of their termination dates may participate in Teradyne’s Welfare Plan, which includes medical and dental benefits up to age 65. Death benefits provide a fixed sum to retirees’ survivors and are available to all retirees. Substantially all of Teradyne’s current U.S. employees could become eligible for these benefits, and the existing benefit obligation relates primarily to those employees.  
As of September 30, 2018, Teradyne had entered into purchase commitments for certain components and materials. The purchase commitments covered by the agreements aggregate to approximately $275.6 million, of which $263.3 million is for less than one year.  
The effective tax rate for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and October 1, 2017 was 14.8% and 18.8%, respectively. The effective tax rate for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and October 1, 2017 was 13.6% and 14.7%, respectively.  
Discrete tax items recorded in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 amounted to $0.2 million of expense and $6.5 million of benefit, respectively. The $0.2 million of discrete tax expense recorded in the three months ended September 30, 2018 consisted of $1.1 million of expense related to non-taxable foreign exchange losses, partially offset by $0.5 million of benefit resulting from the resolution of an  
 audit and $0.4 million of other discrete tax benefit. The $6.5 million of discrete benefits recorded in the nine months ended September 30, 2018 consisted of $8.9 million of discrete tax benefit net of $2.4 million of discrete tax expense. The $8.9 million of discrete tax benefit was composed of $7.8 million from stock based compensation, $0.5 million resulting from the resolution of an audit and $0.6 million of other discrete tax benefit. The $2.4 million of discrete tax expense was composed of $1.7 million from the remeasurement of deferred tax assets as a result of reductions in tax rates and $0.7 million of other discrete tax expense.  
Discrete tax items recorded in the three and nine months ended October 1, 2017 amounted to expense of $0.3 million and benefit of $6.1 million, respectively. The $0.3 million of discrete tax expense recorded in the three months ended October 1, 2017 was primarily composed of $0.8 million of expense related to non-taxable foreign exchange loss, partially offset by $0.2 million of benefit from reductions in tax reserves and $0.2 million of benefit from stock based compensation. The $6.1 million of discrete tax benefit recorded in the nine months ended October 1, 2017 was primarily composed of $6.7 million of benefit from stock-based compensation, $0.7 million of benefit related to U.S. research and development tax credits, and $0.5 million of benefit from reductions in tax reserves, partially offset by $1.1 million of expense related to non-taxable foreign exchange loss, and $1.0 million of tax expense related to actuarial gains.  
As of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, Teradyne had $38.6 million and $36.3 million, respectively, of reserves for uncertain tax positions. The $2.3 million net increase in reserves for uncertain tax positions is primarily composed of additions related to transfer pricing and U.S. research and development tax credits.  
Teradyne recognizes interest and penalties related to income tax matters in income tax expense. As of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, $0.3 million and $0.3 million, respectively, of interest and penalties were accrued for uncertain tax positions. For the nine months ended September 30, 2018, an expense of $0.1 million was recorded for interest and penalties related to income tax items. For the nine months ended October 1, 2017, a benefit of $0.1 million was recorded for interest and penalties related to income tax items.  
Total business assets are directly attributable to each business. Corporate assets consist of cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and certain other assets.  
In January 2018, Teradyne’s Board of Directors cancelled the December 2016 stock repurchase program and authorized a new stock repurchase program for up to $1.5 billion of common stock. Teradyne intends to repurchase $750 million in 2018. During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, Teradyne repurchased 13.8 million shares of common stock for $562.3 million at an average price of $40.62 per share.  
In December 2016, the Board of Directors approved a $500 million share repurchase authorization which commenced on January 1, 2017. During the nine months ended October 1, 2017, Teradyne repurchased 4.6 million shares of common stock for $151.8 million at an average price of $32.66 per share.  
The total price includes commissions and is recorded as a reduction to retained earnings.  
Holders of Teradyne’s common stock are entitled to receive dividends when they are declared by Teradyne’s Board of Directors.  
In January 2018, May 2018 and August 2018, Teradyne’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.09 per share. Dividend payments for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 were $16.6 million and $51.3 million, respectively.  
In January 2017, May 2017 and August 2017, Teradyne’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.07 per share. Dividend payments for the three and nine months ended October 1, 2017 were $13.8 million and $41.7 million, respectively.  
While Teradyne declared a quarterly cash dividend and authorized a share repurchase program, it may reduce or eliminate the cash dividend or share repurchase program in the future. Future cash dividends and stock repurchases are subject to the discretion of Teradyne’s Board of Directors, which will consider, among other things, Teradyne’s earnings, capital requirements and financial condition.  
