On February 26, 2018, we acquired Energid Technologies Corporation (“Energid”) for a total purchase price of approximately $27.6 million. Energid’s technology enables and simplifies the programming of complex robotic motions used in a wide variety of end markets, ranging from heavy industry to healthcare, utilizing both traditional robots and collaborative robots.  
On April 25, 2018, we acquired Mobile Industrial Robots ApS (“MiR”), a Danish limited liability company. MiR is the leading maker of collaborative autonomous mobile robots for industrial applications. The total purchase price was approximately $198 million, which included cash paid of approximately $145 million and $53 million in fair value of contingent consideration payable upon achievement of certain thresholds and targets for revenue and earnings before interest and taxes through 2020. Contingent consideration for 2018 was $31 million and was paid in March 2019. The maximum payment for the remaining MiR contingent consideration that could be paid is $83.2 million.  
MiR and Energid are included in our Industrial Automation segment.  
On January 30, 2019, we acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of Lemsys SA (“Lemsys”) for a total purchase price of approximately $9.1 million. Lemsys strengthens our position in the electrification trends of vehicles, solar, wind, and industrial applications. Lemsys is included in our Semiconductor Test segment.  
Under ASC 842, a contract is or contains a lease when we have the right to control the use of an identified asset. We determine if an arrangement is a lease at inception of the contract, which is the date on which the terms of the contract are agreed to and the agreement creates enforceable rights and obligations. The commencement date of the lease is the date that the lessor makes an underlying asset available for use. As of March 31, 2019, we do not have material leases that have not yet commenced.  
We determine if the lease is operating or finance at the lease commencement date based upon the terms of the lease and the nature of the asset. The lease term used to calculate the lease liability includes options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that the option will be exercised.  
Our contracts often include non-lease components such as common area maintenance. We elected the practical expedient to account for the lease and non-lease components as a single lease component. For leases with a term of one year or less we elected not to record the lease asset or liability. The lease payments are recognized in the consolidated statement of earnings on a straight-line basis over the lease term. We include lease costs within cost of revenues and operating expenses  
The decrease in Semiconductor Test revenues of $32.4 million, or 8.7%, was driven primarily by a decrease in memory test sales and lower mobility test sales, partially offset by higher image sensor test sales. The increase in Industrial Automation revenues of $17.3 million, or 35.5%, was due to higher demand for collaborative robotic arms and the acquisition of MiR, which was acquired in April 2018. MiR added $9.1 million of revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2019.  
The increase in System Test revenues of $15.2 million, or 35.3%, was primarily due to higher sales in Storage Test of 3.5” hard disk drive and higher sales in Production Board Test. The increase in Wireless Test revenues of $6.5 million, or 28.9%, was primarily due to higher demand for millimeter wave and cellular test products.  
Revenues attributable to a country are based on location of customer site.  
Gross profit as a percent of revenue increased by 2.8 points, primarily due to favorable product mix.  
We assess the carrying value of our inventory on a quarterly basis by estimating future demand and comparing that demand against on-hand and on-order inventory positions. Forecasted revenue information is obtained from sales and marketing groups and incorporates factors such as backlog and future revenue demand. This quarterly process identifies obsolete and excess inventory. Obsolete inventory, which represents items for which there is no demand, is fully reserved. Excess inventory, which represents inventory items that are not expected to be consumed during the next twelve quarters for our Semiconductor Test, System Test and Industrial Automation segments and the next four quarters for our Wireless Test segment, is written-down to estimated net realizable value.  
During the three months ended March 31, 2019, we recorded an inventory provision of $2.4 million included in cost of revenues primarily due to downward revisions to previously forecasted demand levels, of which $1.2 million was related to Semiconductor Test and $0.5 million was related to System Test.  
During the three months ended April 1, 2018, we recorded an inventory provision of $3.5 million included in cost of revenues primarily due to downward revisions to previously forecasted demand levels of which $2.2 million was related to Semiconductor Test, $0.8 million was related to Wireless Test, $0.3 million was related to System Test, and $0.2 million was related to Industrial Automation.  
During the three months ended March 31, 2019 and April 1, 2018, we scrapped $0.4 million and $0.3 million of inventory, respectively. During the three months ended March 31, 2019 and April 1, 2018, we sold $0.8 million and $2.2 million of previously written-down or written-off inventory, respectively. As of March 31, 2019, we had inventory related reserves for inventory, which had been written-down or written-off totaling $100.9 million. We have no pre-determined timeline to scrap the remaining inventory.  
The increase of $2.4 million in engineering and development expenses was primarily due to higher spending in Industrial Automation and Wireless Test, partially offset by lower spending in Semiconductor Test.  
Acquired intangible assets amortization expense increased primarily due to Industrial Automation acquisitions of MiR and Energid in 2018 and the Semiconductor Test acquisition of Lemsys in 2019.  
During the three months ended April 1, 2018, we recorded a $5.0 million credit for the decrease in the fair value of the Universal Robots contingent consideration liability, partially offset by $3.9 million recorded for employee severance charges, primarily in Semiconductor Test, and $0.8 million of acquisition related expenses.  
Interest income increased by $2.1 million due primarily to unrealized gains on equity marketable securities in 2019. Interest expense decreased by $1.2 million due primarily to lower realized losses on sales of marketable securities in 2019.  
The decrease in income before income taxes in Semiconductor Test was driven primarily by a decrease in memory test sales and lower mobility test sales partially offset by higher image sensor test sales. The increase in income before income taxes in System Test was primarily due to higher sales in Storage Test of 3.5” hard disk drive and higher sales in Production Board Test. The increase in income before income taxes in Wireless Test was primarily due to higher demand for millimeter wave and cellular test products. The decrease in income before income taxes in Industrial Automation was primarily due to increased intangible assets amortization expense from the acquisitions of MiR and Energid in 2018.  
The effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and April 1, 2018 was (16.1)% and 9.2%, respectively. The decrease in the effective tax rate from the three months ended April 1, 2018 to the three months ended March 31, 2019 resulted from discrete tax benefit from the release of reserves for uncertain tax positions, increases in benefits related to the U.S. foreign derived intangible income deduction and U.S. research and development tax credits, a decrease in expense related to the uncertain tax positions for transfer pricing and a reduction in discrete tax expense associated with remeasurement of deferred tax assets as a result of reductions in tax rates. These reductions were partially offset by a projected shift in the geographic distribution of income, which increases the income subject to taxation in higher tax rate jurisdictions relative to lower tax rate jurisdictions, an increase in the U.S. global intangible low-taxed income inclusion and a reduction in the discrete benefit from stock based compensation.  
Our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances decreased by $207.8 million in the three months ended March 31, 2019 to $996.7 million.  
Operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2019 provided cash of $18.0 million. Changes in operating assets and liabilities used cash of $134.2 million. This was due to a $63.3 million increase in operating assets and a $70.9 million decrease in operating liabilities.  
The decrease in operating liabilities was due to a $59.5 million decrease in accrued employee compensation due primarily to first quarter payments related to variable compensation, a $22.8 million decrease in income taxes, an $11.5 million decrease in other accrued liabilities, and $1.2 million of retirement plan contributions, partially offset by a $17.7 million increase in accounts payable, and a $6.5 million increase in deferred revenue and customer advance payments.  
Operating activities during the three months ended April 1, 2018 used cash of $81.9 million. Changes in operating assets and liabilities used cash of $212.6 million. This was due to a $162.4 million increase in operating assets and a $50.2 million decrease in operating liabilities.  
The increase in operating assets was primarily due to a $140.7 million increase in accounts receivable due to an increase in shipments during the last month of the quarter and the impact of the new revenue recognition standard, a $21.0 million increase in inventories, and a $0.7 million increase in prepayments and other assets.  
The decrease in operating liabilities was due to a $56.3 million decrease in accrued employee compensation due primarily to first quarter payments related to variable compensation, a $12.1 million decrease in income taxes, a $7.5 million decrease in other accrued liabilities, and $1.0 million of retirement plan contributions, partially offset by a $17.1 million increase in accounts payable and a $9.6 million increase in deferred revenue and customer advance payments.  
Investing activities during the three months ended April 1, 2018 provided cash of $462.9 million, due to $800.7 million and $212.7 million in proceeds from sales and maturities of marketable securities, respectively, partially offset by $490.3 million used for purchases of marketable securities, $34.8 million used for purchases of property, plant and equipment and $25.4 million used for the acquisition of Energid.  
In January 2019, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.09 per share. Dividend payments for the three months ended March 31, 2019 were $15.6 million.  
In January 2018, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.09 per share. Dividend payments for the three months ended April 1, 2018 were $17.6 million.  
While we declared a quarterly cash dividend and authorized a share repurchase program, we may reduce or eliminate the cash dividend or share repurchase program in the future. Future cash dividends and stock repurchases are subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors, which will consider, among other things, our earnings, capital requirements and financial condition.  
Includes three hundred ninety one thousand shares at an average price of $36.60 withheld from employees for the payment of taxes.  
We satisfy U.S. federal and state minimum withholding tax obligations due upon the vesting and the conversion of restricted stock units into shares of our common stock, by automatically withholding from the shares being issued, a number of shares with an aggregate fair market value on the date of such vesting and conversion that would satisfy the minimum withholding amount due.  
