consolidated financial statements.
consolidated financial statements.
 consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes, together with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Teradyne’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, are an integral part of the condensed consolidated financial statements.
consolidated financial statements.
The consolidated interim financial statements include the accounts of Teradyne and its wholly-owned subsidiaries.
All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
Certain prior year amounts were reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
10-K, filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on March 1, 2019, for the year ended December 31, 2018.
right-of-use (“ROU”) asset and a lease liability on the balance sheet for operating leases with terms longer than twelve months.
Under this method of adoption, the comparative information in the consolidated financial statements has not been revised and continues to be reported under the previously applicable lease accounting guidance (ASC 840).
 resulted in recording ROU assets and lease liabilities of approximately $50.1
Under ASC 842, a contract is or contains a lease when Teradyne has the right to control the use of an identified asset.
Teradyne determines if an arrangement is a lease at inception of the contract, which is the date on which the terms of the contract are agreed to and the agreement creates enforceable rights and obligations.
The commencement date of the lease is the date that the lessor makes an underlying asset available for use by Teradyne.
As of June 30, 2019, Teradyne does not have material leases that have not yet commenced.
Teradyne determines if the lease is operating or finance at the lease commencement date based upon the terms of the lease and the nature of the asset.
The lease term used to calculate the lease liability includes options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that the option will be exercised.
As Teradyne is typically unable to determine the implicit rate, Teradyne uses an incremental borrowing rate based on the lease term and economic environment at commencement date.
Variable payments that do not depend on an index are not included in the lease liability and are recognized as they are incurred.
The ROU asset is initially measured as the amount of lease liability, adjusted for any initial lease costs, prepaid lease payments, and reduced by any lease incentives.
non-lease components such as common area maintenance.
one-step impairment test will be applied to goodwill at all reporting units, even those with zero or negative carrying amounts.
Entities will be required to disclose the amount of goodwill at reporting units with zero or negative carrying amounts.
The revised guidance will be applied prospectively, and is effective in 2020.
On January 30, 2019, Teradyne acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of Lemsys SA (“Lemsys”) for a total purchase price of approximately $9.1 million.
Lemsys strengthens Teradyne’s position in the electrification trends of vehicles, solar, wind, and industrial applications.
Teradyne’s final allocation of the purchase price was goodwill of $1.4 million, which is not deductible for tax purposes, acquired intangible assets of $4.6 million with an average estimated useful life of 5.2 years, and $3.1 million of net tangible assets.
The acquisition was not material to Teradyne’s condensed consolidated financial statements.
On April 25, 2018, Teradyne acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of Mobile Industrial Robots Aps (“MiR”), a Danish limited liability company located in Odense, Denmark.
MiR is the leading maker of collaborative autonomous mobile robots for industrial applications.
MiR is part of Teradyne’s Industrial Automation segment.
The contingent consideration is payable in Euros upon the achievement of certain thresholds and targets for revenue and earnings before interest and taxes for periods from January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2018; January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2019; and January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2020.
The contingent consideration related to revenue for the period from January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2018 in the amount of $30.8 million was paid in March 2019.
MiR’s products will help expand the Industrial Automation segment, which is a key component of Teradyne’s growth strategy.
The allocation of the total purchase price to MiR’s net tangible liabilities and identifiable intangible assets was based on their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date.
Pro forma results for the three and six months ended July 1, 2018 were adjusted to exclude $2.3 million and $2.9 million, respectively,
 of acquisition related costs, and $0.4 million of non-recurring expense related to fair value adjustment to acquisition-date inventory
On February 26, 2018, Teradyne acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of Energid Technologies Corporation (“Energid”) for a total purchase price of approximately $27.6 million.
As of the acquisition date, Teradyne’s purchase price allocation was goodwill of $14.4 million which is deductible for tax purposes, acquired intangible assets of $12.3 million with an average estimated useful life of 7.7 years, and $1.0 million of net tangible assets.
The acquisition was not material to Teradyne’s condensed consolidated financial statements.
On June 3, 2019, Teradyne invested $15.0 million in RealWear, Inc. (“RealWear”).
RealWear, a private company, develops and sells advanced wearable technology including industrial, hands-free, head-mounted augmented reality devices that make the workplace safer and more productive.
The investment was recorded at cost and is evaluated for impairment or an indication of changes in fair value resulting from observable price changes in orderly transactions for the identical or a similar investment of the same issuer on a quarterly basis.
At June 30, 2019 the value of the investment was $15.0 million.
Revenue from Contracts with Customers” were $562.5 million and $1,054.9 million, respectively.
For the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, Teradyne also recognized $1.7 million and $3.4 million, respectively, of revenues from leases of Teradyne systems, which are accounted for outside of ASC 606.
Revenue from Contracts with Customers” were $523.3 million and $1,006.5 million, respectively.
The following table provides information about disaggregated revenue by primary geographical market, major product line and timing of revenue recognition.
During the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, Teradyne recognized $13.3 million and $33.4 million, respectively, that was previously included within the deferred revenue and customer advances balances.
 million, respectively, that was previously included within the deferred revenue and customer advances balances.
This revenue primarily relates to extended warranties, training, application support, and post contract support.
Each of these represents a distinct performance obligation.
 years, and the remainder thereafter.
non-recourse basis to third-party financial institutions pursuant to factoring agreements.
Teradyne accounts for these transactions as sales of receivables and presents cash proceeds as a cash provided by operating activities in the consolidated statements of cash flows.
Total trade accounts receivable sold under the factoring agreements were $82.1 million and $8.9 million for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and July 1, 2018, respectively.
Inventory reserves at June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018 were $102.6 million and $100.8 million, respectively.
Teradyne considers all highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less at the date of acquisition to be cash equivalents.
available-for-sale debt securities are classified as Level 2 and equity securities are classified as Level 1.
Contingent consideration is classified as Level 3.
The vast majority of Level 2 securities are fixed income securities priced by third party pricing vendors.
During the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 and July 1, 2018, there were no transfers in or out of Level 1, Level 2, or Level 3 financial instruments.
Realized gains recorded in the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 were $0.1 million and $0.2 million, respectively.
Realized losses recorded in the six months ended June 30, 2019 were $0.1 million.
Realized losses recorded in the six months ended July 1, 2018 were $1.5 million.
Unrealized gains on equity securities recorded in the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 were $0.9 million and $3.7 million, respectively.
Unrealized gains on equity securities recorded in the three and six months ended July 1, 2018 were $0.4 million.
The cost of securities sold is based on the specific identification method.
As of June 30, 2019, the maximum amount of contingent consideration that could be paid in connection with the acquisition of MiR is $84.1 million.
earn-out  periods end on December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2020.
The fair values of accounts receivable, net and accounts payable approximate the carrying value due to the short-term nature of these instruments.
available-for-sale securities with unrealized losses totaled $38.3 million.
Of this value, $22.7 million had unrealized losses of $0.4 million for greater than one year and $15.6 million had unrealized losses of $0.1 million for less than one year.
As of December 31, 2018, the fair market value of investments with unrealized losses totaled $192.0 million.
Of this value, $28.5 million had unrealized losses of $1.6 million greater than one year and $163.5 million had unrealized losses of $1.4 million for less than one year.
Teradyne reviews its investments to identify and evaluate investments that have an indication of possible impairment.
available-for-sale securities held at June 30, 2019 exclude $3.3 million of debt mutual funds as they do not have a contractual maturity date.
To minimize the effect of exchange rate fluctuations associated with the remeasurement of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, Teradyne enters into foreign currency forward contracts.
The change in fair value of these derivatives is recorded directly in earnings, and is used to offset the change in value of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies.
The notional amount of foreign currency forward contracts at June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018 was $143.3 million and $163.1 million, respectively.
On January 1, 2019, Teradyne adopted ASC 842 using the modified retrospective approach.
Under this method of adoption, the comparative information in the consolidated financial statements has not been revised and continues to be reported under the previously applicable lease accounting guidance (ASC 840).
Adoption of ASC 842 resulted in recording ROU assets and lease liabilities of approximately $50.1 million and $54.3 million, respectively.
The adoption of ASC 842 did not have a material impact on beginning retained earnings, the consolidated statement of operations, cash flows, or earnings per share.
Teradyne has facility and auto leases, which are accounted for as operating leases.
Teradyne’s facility leases are primarily used for administrative functions, research and development, manufacturing, and storage and distribution.
Remaining lease terms range from less than one year to ten years.
At June 30, 2019, the weighted average remaining lease term and weighted average discount rate for operating leases was 4.7 years and 5.2%, respectively.
, Teradyne completed a private offering of $460.0
 million aggregate principal amount of 1.25
 million of which was used to pay the net cost of the convertible note hedge transactions and $50.1
 million of which was used to repurchase 2.0
 at a rate of 1.25
 upon the occurrence of specified corporate events.
may convert their Notes at any time, regardless of the foregoing circumstances.
, the conversion price was approximately $31.70
The conversion rate is subject to adjustment under certain circumstances.
Concurrent with the offering of the Notes, Teradyne entered into convertible note hedge transactions (the “Note Hedge Transactions”) with the initial purchasers or their affiliates (the “Option Counterparties”).
The Note Hedge Transactions cover, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, the number of shares of the common stock that underlie the Notes, with a strike price equal to the conversion price of the Notes of $31.70.
The Note Hedge Transactions cover, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, approximately 14.5 million shares of Teradyne’s common stock.
net-share-settled (or, at its election subject to certain conditions, cash-settled) warrants to the Option Counterparties.
The Warrant Transactions cover, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, approximately 14.5 million shares of common stock.
As of June 30, 2019, the strike price of the warrants was approximately $39.78 per share.
The strike price is subject to adjustment under certain circumstances.
The net cost of the Note Hedge Transactions, after being partially offset by the proceeds from the sale of the warrants, was approximately $33.0
The convertible note hedge is considered indexed to Teradyne’s common stock as the terms of the Note Hedge Transactions do not contain an exercise contingency and the settlement amount equals the difference between the fair value of a fixed number of Teradyne’s shares and a fixed strike price.
consideration as the holders of the underlying stock; (4) the counterparty does not have rights that rank higher than those of a shareholder of the stock underlying the convertible note hedge; and (5) there is no requirement to post collateral.
Based on its analysis of those criteria, Teradyne concluded that the convertible note hedge should be recorded in equity and no further adjustment should be made in future periods to adjust the value of the convertible note hedge.
“Derivatives and Hedging—Contracts in Entity’s Own Equity,” and other relevant literature, and determined that it met the criteria for classification as an equity transaction and is considered indexed to Teradyne’s common stock.
As a result, Teradyne recorded the proceeds from the warrants as an increase to additional paid-in capital.
Teradyne does not recognize subsequent changes in fair value of the warrants in its financial statements.
” are applicable to the Notes.
ASC 470-20 requires Teradyne to separately account for the liability (debt) and equity (conversion feature) components of the Notes in a manner that reflects Teradyne’s nonconvertible debt borrowing rate at the date of issuance when interest cost is recognized in subsequent periods.
Teradyne allocated $100.8 million of the $460.0 million principal amount of the Notes to the equity component, which represents a discount to the debt and will be amortized to interest expense using the effective interest method through December 2023.
Accordingly, Teradyne’s effective annual interest rate on the Notes will be approximately 5.0%.
Debt issuance costs of approximately $7.2
As of June 30, 2019, debt issuance costs were approximately $4.8
As of June 30, 2019, the remaining unamortized discount was $72.8 million, which will be amortized over 4.5 years using the effective interest rate method.
The carrying amount of the equity component was $100.8 million.
, which Teradyne entered into with Barclays Bank PLC, on April 27, 2015.
When Teradyne receives revenue for extended warranties, beyond one year, it is deferred and recognized on a straight-line basis over the contract period.
The balance below is included in short and long-term deferred revenue and customer advances on the balance sheet.
% of the award vesting on the earlier of (a) the first anniversary of the grant date or (b) the date of the following year’s Annual Meeting of Shareholders.
Teradyne expenses the cost of the restricted stock unit awards subject to time-based vesting, which is determined to be the fair market value of the shares at the date of grant, ratably over the period during which the restrictions lapse.
Performance-based restricted stock units (“PRSUs”) granted to Teradyne’s executive officers have a performance metric based on relative total shareholder return (“TSR”).
 TSR performance is measured against the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) Composite Index.
% of the target shares capped at four times the grant date value.
The TSR PRSUs are valued using a Monte Carlo simulation model.
The number of units expected to be earned, based upon the achievement of the TSR market condition, is factored into the grant date Monte Carlo valuation.
Compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the three-year service period or the period from the grant to the date described in the retirement provisions below.
Compensation expense for employees meeting the retirement provisions prior to the grant date will be recognized in full on the date of the grant.
Compensation expense is reversed if at any time during the three-year service period the executive officer is no longer an employee, subject to the retirement and termination eligibility provisions noted below.
non-recurring gains and charges.
The final number of PBIT PRSUs that vest will vary based upon the level of performance achieved from 200% to 0% of the target shares.
Compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the three year service period or the period from the grant date to the date described in the retirement provisions below.
will be recognized in full on the date of grant.
Compensation expense is recognized based on the number of units that are earned based upon the three-year Teradyne PBIT as a percent of Teradyne’s revenue, provided the executive officer remains an employee at the end of the three-year period subject to the retirement and termination eligibility provisions noted below.
If a PRSU recipient’s employment ends prior to the determination of the performance percentage due to (1) permanent disability or death or (2) retirement or termination other than for cause, after attaining both at least age sixty and at least ten years of service, then all or a portion of the recipient’s PRSUs (based on the actual performance percentage achieved on the determination date) will vest on the date the performance percentage is determined.
Except as set forth in the preceding sentence, no PRSUs will vest if the executive officer is no longer an employee at the end of the three-year period.
Expected volatility was based on the historical volatility of Teradyne’s stock and the NYSE Composite Index for each of the 2019 and 2018 grants over the most recent three-year period.
The risk-free interest rate was determined using the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of each of the grants.
Dividend yield was based upon an estimated annual dividend amount of $0.36 per share for 2019 grants and 2018 grants, divided by Teradyne’s stock price on the grant date of $37.95 for 2019 grants and
 for the 2018 grant.
During the six months ended June 30, 2019 and July 1, 2018, Teradyne granted 0.1 million and 0.1 million, respectively, of PBIT PRSUs with a grant date fair value of $36.88 and $46.62, respectively.
, Teradyne granted 0.7 million of service-based restricted stock unit awards to employees at a weighted average grant date fair value of $36.10
During the six months ended July 1, 2018, Teradyne granted 0.6 million of service-based restricted stock unit awards to employees at a weighted average grant date fair value of $46.38
, 0.1 million of service-based restricted stock unit awards to
Stock options to purchase Teradyne’s common stock at 100% of the fair market value on the grant date vest in equal annual installments over four years from the grant date and have a maximum term of seven years.
Volatility was determined using historical volatility for a period equal to the expected life.
Dividend yield was based upon an estimated annual dividend amount of $0.36 per share divided by Teradyne’s stock price on the grant date of $37.95 for 2019 grants
 on December 31 of each fiscal year unless interim indicators of impairment exist.
Goodwill is considered impaired when the net book value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value.
Aggregate intangible asset amortization expense was $10.1 million and $20.7 million, respectively, for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 and $9.8 million and $17.5 million, respectively, for the three and six months ended July 1, 2018.
The computation of diluted net income per common share for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 excludes the effect of the potential vesting of 0.2 million and 0.4 million of stock options, respectively because the effect would have been anti-dilutive.
The computation of diluted net income per common share for the three and six months ended July 1, 2018 excludes the effect of the potential vesting of 0.6 million and 0.5 million shares, respectively of restricted stock units because the effect would have been anti-dilutive.
million of acquisition related compensation and expenses.
million credit for the decrease in the fair value of the Universal Robots.
million recorded for severance charges primarily in Semiconductor Test.
During the six months ended July 1, 2018, Teradyne recorded $6.3 million for severance charges, primarily in Semiconductor Test and Industrial Automation, $3.3 million for acquisition related expenses, partially offset by an $8.5 million credit for the decrease in the fair value of the Universal Robots contingent consideration liability.
The pension asset or liability represents a difference between the fair value of the pension plan’s assets and the projected benefit obligation.
non-U.S.  subsidiaries.
Benefits under these plans are based on employees’ years of service and compensation.
The assets of the U.S. qualified pension plan consist primarily of fixed income and equity securities.
In the six months ended June 30, 2019, Teradyne contributed $1.3 million to the U.S. supplemental executive defined benefit pension plan and $0.4 million to certain qualified pension plans for
non-U.S. subsidiaries.
Death benefits provide a fixed sum to retirees’ survivors and are available to all retirees.
Substantially all of Teradyne’s current U.S. employees could become eligible for these benefits, and the existing benefit obligation relates primarily to those employees.
As of June 30, 2019, Teradyne had entered into purchase commitments for certain components and materials.
The purchase commitments covered by the agreements aggregate to approximately $306.9 million, of which $300.7 million is for less than one year.
As of June 30, 2019, Teradyne believes that it will ultimately realize the deferred tax assets recorded on the condensed consolidated balance sheet.
As of June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, Teradyne had $13.4 million and $43.4 million, respectively, of reserves for uncertain tax positions.
As of June 30, 2019, Teradyne does not anticipate a material change in the balance of unrecognized tax benefits during the next twelve months.
On July 27, 2015, in Altera Corp. v. Commissioner (“Altera”), the U.S. Tax Court issued an opinion invalidating the regulations relating to the treatment of stock-based compensation expense in an intercompany
A final decision was issued by the Tax Court in December 2015.
The IRS appealed the decision in June 2016.
On June 7, 2019, the Ninth Circuit Federal Court upheld the cost-sharing regulations.
As of June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, $0.4 million and $0.3 million, respectively, of interest and penalties were accrued for uncertain tax positions.
For the six months ended June 30, 2019 and July 1, 2018, expense of $0.1 million and $0.1 million, respectively, was recorded for interest and penalties related to income tax items.
Teradyne qualifies for a tax holiday in Singapore by fulfilling the requirements of an agreement with the Singapore Economic Development Board under which certain headcount and spending requirements must be met.
The tax savings due to the tax holiday for the six months ended June 30, 2019 was $7.0 million, or $0.04 per diluted share.
The tax savings due to the tax holiday for the six months ended July 1, 2018 was $4.8 million, or $0.02 per diluted share.
The tax holiday is scheduled to expire on December 31, 2020.
Total business assets are directly attributable to each business.
In January 2018, Teradyne’s Board of Directors cancelled the December 2016 stock repurchase program and authorized a new stock repurchase program for up to $1.5 billion of common stock.
Teradyne intends to repurchase $500 million in 2019.
During the six months ended June 30, 2019, Teradyne repurchased 6.5 million shares of common stock for $247.2 million at an average price of $38.20 per share.
The cumulative repurchases under the $1.5 billion stock repurchase program as of June 30, 2019 totaled 28.1 million shares of common stock for $1.1 billion at an average price per share of $38.09.
During the six months ended July 1, 2018, Teradyne repurchased 8.8 million shares of common stock for $360.8 million at an average price of $40.82 per share.
Holders of Teradyne’s common stock are entitled to receive dividends when they are declared by Teradyne’s Board of Directors.
In January 2019 and May 2019, Teradyne’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.09 per share.
Dividend payments for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 were $15.4 million and $31.0 million, respectively.
In January 2018 and May 2018, Teradyne’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.09 per share.
While Teradyne declared a quarterly cash dividend and authorized a share repurchase program, it may reduce or eliminate the cash dividend or share repurchase program in the future.
July 17, 2019 (the “Retirement Date”).
As previously announced, Sanjay Mehta succeeded Mr. Beecher as Teradyne’s Chief Financial Officer effective April 25, 2019.
 with Mr. Beecher (the “Retirement Agreement”).
In the Retirement Agreement, Mr. Beecher agreed to be bound by non-competition and non-solicitation restrictions through January 31, 2023 (the “Non-Competition Period”).
The Retirement Agreement also includes additional, standard terms and conditions relating to Mr. Beecher’s separation from Teradyne.
Under the Retirement Agreement, Mr. Beecher’s unvested time-based restricted stock units and stock options granted prior to 2019 will continue to vest in accordance with their terms; unvested time-based restricted stock units and stock options granted in 2019 prior to the Retirement Date will continue to vest during the Non-Competition Period in a pro-rated amount based on the number of days that Mr. Beecher was employed during 2019;
unvested, performance-based restricted stock units awarded prior to 2019 will continue to vest in accordance with their terms; unvested, performance-based restricted stock units awarded in 2019 will vest on the date the amount of shares underlying the performance-based restricted stock units are determined in a pro-rated amount of shares based on the number of days that Mr. Beecher was employed during the 365 calendar day period following the grant date; vested options or options that vest during the Non-Competition Period may be exercised for the remainder of the applicable option term.
Teradyne will record a stock based compensation expense of approximately $2.5 million in the third quarter of 2019 related to the Retirement Agreement.
10-K remain applicable to our business.
On May 16, 2019, Huawei and 68 of its affiliates, including HiSilicon, were added to the U.S. Department of Commerce Entity List under the EAR.
This action by the U.S. Department of Commerce imposes new export licensing requirements on exports,
in-country transfers of all U.S. regulated products, software and technology to the designated Huawei entities.
