Statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q which are not historical facts, so called “forward-looking statements,” are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
See also Part II, Item 1A of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and Part I, Item 1A “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
During the first quarter of 2018, demand outlook for mobile device test capacity in 2018 declined sharply for our Semiconductor Test business.
On February 26, 2018, we acquired Energid Technologies Corporation (“Energid”) for a total purchase price of approximately $27.6 million.
Energid’s technology enables and simplifies the programming of complex robotic motions used in a wide variety of end markets, ranging from heavy industry to healthcare, utilizing both traditional robots and collaborative robots.
On April 25, 2018, we acquired Mobile Industrial Robots ApS (“MiR”), a Danish limited liability company.
The total purchase price for MiR was approximately $197 million, which included cash paid of approximately $146 million and $51 million in fair value of contingent consideration payable upon achievement of revenue and earnings targets through 2020.
MiR and Energid are included in our Industrial Automation segment.
 customer obtains control of promised goods or services.
The amount of revenue recognized reflects the consideration to which we expect to be entitled to receive in exchange for fulfillment of the performance obligation.
Our primary source of revenue will continue to be from the sale of systems, instruments, robots, and the delivery of services.
In accordance with ASC 606, we recognize revenues, when or as control is transferred to a customer.
Our determination of revenue is dependent upon a five step process outlined below.
We periodically enter into contracts with its customers in which a customer may purchase a combination of goods and or services, such as products with extended warranty obligations.
We determine performance obligations by assessing whether the products or services are distinct from the other elements of the contract.
In order to be distinct, the product or service must perform either on its own or with readily available resources and must be separate within the context of the contract.
We consider the amount stated on the face of the purchase order to be the transaction price.
We use standalone transactions when available to value each performance obligation.
Any discounts from standalone selling price are spread over each performance obligation.
In order to determine the appropriate timing for revenue recognition, we first determine if the transaction meets any of three criteria for over time recognition.
We use input variables such as hours or months utilized or costs incurred to determine the amount of revenue to recognize in a given period.
Input variables are used as they best align consumption with benefit to the customer.
For transactions that do not meet the criteria for over time recognition, we will recognize revenue at a point in time based on an assessment of the five criteria for transfer of control.
We have concluded that revenue should be recognized when shipped or delivered based on contractual terms.
Typically acceptance of our products and services is a formality as we deliver similar systems, instruments and robots to standard specifications.
In cases where acceptance is not deemed a formality, we will wait for customer acceptance before recognizing revenue.
This guidance requires the service cost component of net benefit costs to be reported in the same line item in the consolidated statement of operations as other employee compensation costs.
The non-service components of net benefit costs such as interest cost, expected return on assets, amortization of prior service cost, and actuarial gains or losses, are required to be reported separately outside of income or loss from operations.
The retrospective adoption of this standard decreased the three and six months ended July 2, 2017 income from operations by $2.1 million and $1.7 million, respectively, due to the removal of net actuarial pension gains and increased non-operating (income) expense by the same amount with no impact to net income.
The increase in System Test revenues of $33.0 million, or 89.9%, was primarily due to higher sales in Storage Test of 3.5” hard disk drive and system level testers.
The increase in Industrial Automation revenues of $22.8 million, or 58.0%, was due to higher demand for collaborative robotic arms and the acquisition of MiR, completed in April of 2018.
The increase in Wireless Test revenues of $7.5 million, or 27.1%, was primarily due to higher demand for connectivity test systems.
Revenues attributable to a country are based on location of customer site.
Gross profit as a percent of revenue increased by 2.2 points, as a result of an increase related to product mix primarily in Semiconductor Test.
This quarterly process identifies obsolete and excess inventory.
Obsolete inventory, which represents items for which there is no demand, is fully reserved.
Excess inventory, which represents inventory items that are not expected to be consumed during the next twelve quarters for our Semiconductor Test, System Test and Industrial Automation segments and the next four quarters for our Wireless Test segment, is written-down to estimated net realizable value.
During the three months ended July 1, 2018, we recorded an inventory provision of $2.7 million included in cost of revenues primarily due to downward revisions to previously forecasted demand levels.
Of the $2.7 million of total excess and obsolete provisions, $1.6 million was related to Semiconductor Test, $0.6 million was related to Wireless Test, $0.3 million was related to System Test, and $0.2 million was related to Industrial Automation.
During the three months ended July 2, 2017, we recorded an inventory provision of $2.6 million included in cost of revenues primarily due to downward revisions to previously forecasted demand levels.
Of the $2.6 million of total excess and obsolete provisions, $1.6 million was related to Semiconductor Test, $0.5 million was related to System Test, and $0.5 million was related to Wireless Test.
During the three months ended July 1, 2018 and July 2, 2017, we scrapped $1.1 million of inventory.
During the three months ended July 1, 2018 and July 2, 2017, we sold $1.9 million and $2.1 million of previously written-down or written-off inventory, respectively.
As of July 1, 2018, we had inventory related reserves for inventory, which had been written-down or written-off totaling $103.2 million.
We have no pre-determined timeline to scrap the remaining inventory.
The increase of $9.3 million in selling and administrative expenses was due primarily to higher spending in Industrial Automation, partially offset by lower variable compensation.
Acquired intangible assets amortization expense increased primarily due to acquisitions in the Industrial Automation segment in 2018.
During the three months ended July 1, 2018, we recorded $2.5 million of acquisition related expenses and $2.4 million for employee severance charges, primarily in Semiconductor Test, partially offset by a $3.5 million gain for the decrease in the fair value of the Universal Robots contingent consideration liability.
Interest income increased by $2.1 million due primarily to higher interest rates in 2018.
Other (income) expense, net included net foreign exchange losses and non-service components of net periodic pension costs and net periodic postretirement benefit costs.
The decrease in income before income taxes in Semiconductor Test was driven primarily by lower revenues due to a decrease in mobility test segment sales.
The increase in income before income taxes in System Test was primarily due to higher sales in Storage Test of 3.5” hard disk drive and system level testers.
The increase in income before income taxes in Wireless Test was primarily due to higher demand for connectivity test systems.
The increase in loss before income taxes in Industrial Automation was primarily due to increased intangible assets amortization expense from the acquisitions of MiR and Energid in 2018.
The increase in the effective tax rate from the three months ended July 2, 2017 to the three months ended July 1, 2018 primarily resulted from a projected shift in the geographic distribution of income, which increased income subject to taxation in the U.S. relative to lower tax rate jurisdictions.
The increase in System Test revenues of $36.1 million, or 47.1%, was primarily due to higher sales of 3.5” hard disk drive and system level testers in Storage Test.
The increase in Industrial Automation revenues of $35.3 million, or 46.7%, was due to higher demand for collaborative robotic arms and the acquisition of MiR, completed in April of 2018.
The increase in Wireless Test revenues of $4.8 million, or 9.0%, was primarily due to increased sales of connectivity test systems.
Revenues attributable to a country are based on location of customer site.
Gross profit as a percent of revenue increased by 0.1 points, as a result of an increase related to product mix primarily in Semiconductor Test, partially offset by a decrease due to lower sales in Semiconductor Test.
This quarterly process identifies obsolete and excess inventory.
Obsolete inventory, which represents items for which there is no demand, is fully reserved.
Excess inventory, which represents inventory items that are not expected to be consumed during the next twelve quarters for our Semiconductor Test, System Test and Industrial Automation segments and the next four quarters for our Wireless Test segment, is written-down to estimated net realizable value.
During the six months ended July 1, 2018, we recorded an inventory provision of $6.2 million included in cost of revenues primarily due to downward revisions to previously forecasted demand levels.
Of the $6.2 million of total excess and obsolete provisions, $3.8 million was related to Semiconductor, $1.5 million was related to Wireless Test, $0.6 million was related to System Test, and $0.3 million was related to Industrial Automation.
During the six months ended July 2, 2017, we recorded an inventory provision of $5.3 million included in cost of revenues primarily due to downward revisions to previously forecasted demand levels.
Of the $5.3 million of total excess and obsolete provisions, $2.9 million was related to Semiconductor Test, $1.4 million was related to System Test, and $1.0 million was related to Wireless Test.
During the six months ended July 1, 2018 and July 2, 2017, we scrapped $1.5 million and $2.9 million of inventory, respectively.
During the six months ended July 1, 2018 and July 2, 2017, we sold $4.2 million and $3.3 million of previously written-down or written-off inventory, respectively.
As of July 1, 2018, we had inventory related reserves for inventory, which had been written-down or written-off totaling $103.2 million.
We have no pre-determined timeline to scrap the remaining inventory.
The increase of $15.0 million in selling and administrative expenses was due primarily to higher spending in Industrial Automation, partially offset by lower variable compensation.
Acquired intangible assets amortization expense increased primarily due to acquisitions in the Industrial Automation segment in 2018.
During the six months ended July 1, 2018, we recorded $6.3 million for employee severance charges, primarily in Semiconductor Test and Industrial Automation, and $3.3 million for acquisition related expenses, partially offset by an $8.5 million gain for the decrease in the fair value of the Universal Robots contingent consideration liability.
During the six months ended July 2, 2017, we recorded $2.1 million for the increase in the fair value of the Universal Robots contingent consideration liability, $1.4 million for employee severance charges, primarily in Corporate and Industrial Automation, and a $1.3 million charge for a lease impairment of a Wireless Test facility in Sunnyvale, CA, which was terminated in September 2017.
Interest income increased by $4.6 million due primarily to higher interest rates in 2018.
Interest expense increased by $1.6 million due primarily to realized losses on sales of marketable securities.
Other (income) expense, net included net foreign exchange losses and non-service components of net periodic pension costs and net periodic postretirement benefit costs.
The increase in income before income taxes in System Test was primarily due to higher sales in Storage Test of 3.5” hard disk drive and system level testers.
The increase in income before income taxes in Wireless Test was primarily due to higher sales of connectivity test systems.
The decrease in loss before income taxes in Industrial Automation was primarily due to an increase in sales for collaborative robotic arms and the acquisition of MiR, partially offset by an increase in intangible assets amortization expense from the acquisitions of MiR and Energid in 2018.
The effective tax rate for the six months ended July 1, 2018 and July 2, 2017 was 12.9%.
Our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances decreased by $599.6 million in the six months ended July 1, 2018 to $1,304.1 million.
Operating activities during the six months ended July 1, 2018 provided cash of $49.9 million.
Changes in operating assets and liabilities used cash of $225.2 million.
The decrease in operating liabilities was due to a $27.3 million decrease in accrued employee compensation due primarily to first quarter payments related to variable compensation, a $26.3 million decrease in income taxes, and $2.2 million of retirement plan contributions, partially offset by a $14.7 million increase in accounts payable, a $10.5 million increase in deferred revenue and customer advance payments, and a $4.5 million increase in other accrued liabilities.
Investing activities during the six months ended July 1, 2018 provided cash of $418.5 million, due to $829.1 million and $469.9 million in proceeds from sales and maturities of marketable securities, respectively, partially offset by $647.1 million used for purchases of marketable securities, $170.6 million used for acquisitions of MiR and Energid, and $62.7 million used for purchases of property, plant and equipment.
Financing activities during the six months ended July 1, 2018 used cash of $418.1 million, due to $360.8 million used for the repurchase of 8.8 million shares of common stock at an average price of $40.82 per share, $34.7 million used for dividend payments, $19.8 million used for payment related to net settlement of employee stock compensation awards, and $13.6 million used for a payment related to Universal Robots acquisition contingent consideration, partially offset by $10.7 million from the issuance of common stock under employee stock purchase and stock option plans.
Changes in operating assets and liabilities used cash of $165.7 million.
This was due to a $217.9 million increase in operating assets partially offset by a $52.2 million increase in operating liabilities.
The increase in operating liabilities was due to a $21.1 million increase in other accrued liabilities, a $14.4 million increase in income taxes, an $11.9 million increase in accrued employee compensation due primarily to variable compensation, a $5.3 million increase in deferred revenue and customer advance payments, and a $1.6 million increase in accounts payable, partially offset by $2.0 million of retirement plan contributions.
Investing activities during the six months ended July 2, 2017 provided cash of $240.1 million, due to $313.3 million and $307.6 million in proceeds from maturities and sales of marketable securities, respectively, partially offset by $334.8 used for purchases of marketable securities and $46.0 million used for purchases of property, plant and equipment.
Financing activities during the six months ended July 2, 2017 used cash of $120.5 million, due to $94.3 million used for the repurchase of 3.0 million shares of common stock at an average price of $31.77 per share, $27.9 million used for dividend payments, $12.4 million used for payment related to net settlement of employee stock compensation awards and $1.1 million used for a payment related to AIT acquisition contingent consideration, partially offset by $15.2 million from the issuance of common stock under employee stock purchase and stock option plans.
In January 2018 and May 2018, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.09 per share.
In January 2017 and May 2017, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.07 per share.
In January 2018, our Board of Directors cancelled the December 2016 stock repurchase program and authorized a new stock repurchase program for up to $1.5 billion of common stock.
We intend to repurchase $750 million in 2018.
During the six months ended July 1, 2018, we repurchased 8.8 million shares of common stock for $360.8 million at an average price of $40.82 per share.
During the six months ended July 2, 2017, we repurchased 3.0 million shares of common stock for $94.3 million at an average price of $31.77 per share.
While we declared a quarterly cash dividend and authorized a share repurchase program, we may reduce or eliminate the cash dividend or share repurchase program in the future.
We believe our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balance will be sufficient to pay our quarterly dividend, execute our authorized share repurchase program and meet our working capital and expenditure needs for at least the next twelve months.
Inflation has not had a significant long-term impact on earnings.
All other goodwill impairment guidance will remain largely unchanged.
Entities will continue to have the option to perform a qualitative assessment to determine if a quantitative impairment test is necessary.
The same one-step impairment test will be applied to goodwill at all reporting units, even those with zero or negative carrying amounts.
Entities will be required to disclose the amount of goodwill at reporting units with zero or negative carrying amounts.
Leases will be classified as either finance or operating, with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition in the statements of operations.
A modified retrospective transition approach is required for lessees for capital and operating leases existing at, or entered into after, the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented in the financial statements.
In January 2018, our Board of Directors cancelled the December 2016 stock repurchase program and authorized a new stock repurchase program for up to $1.5 billion of common stock.
We intend to repurchase $750 million in 2018.
During the six months ended July 1, 2018, we repurchased 8.8 million shares of common stock for $360.8 million at an average price of $40.82 per share.
During the six months ended July 2, 2017, we repurchased 3.0 million shares of common stock for $94.3 million at an average price of $31.77 per share.
We satisfy U.S. federal and state minimum withholding tax obligations due upon the vesting and the conversion of restricted stock units into shares of our common stock, by automatically withholding from the shares being issued, a number of shares with an aggregate fair market value on the date of such vesting and conversion that would satisfy the minimum withholding amount due.
