consolidated financial statements.
consolidated financial statements.
consolidated financial statements.
consolidated financial statements.
The consolidated interim financial statements include the accounts of Teradyne and its wholly-owned subsidiaries.
All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
Certain prior year amounts were reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
The accompanying financial information should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto contained in Teradyne’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on March 1, 2018, for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Teradyne adopted Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” (“ASC 606”) on January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method for all contracts not completed as of the date of adoption.
In accordance with ASC 606, Teradyne recognizes revenues, when or as control is transferred to a customer.
Teradyne determines performance obligations by assessing whether the products or services are distinct from the other elements of the contract.
Teradyne considers the amount stated on the face of the purchase order to be the transaction price.
Transaction price is allocated to each individual performance obligation based on the standalone selling price of that performance obligation.
Teradyne uses standalone transactions when available to value each performance obligation.
In order to determine the appropriate timing for revenue recognition, Teradyne first determines if the transaction meets any of three criteria for over time recognition.
If the transaction meets the criteria for over time recognition, Teradyne recognizes revenue as the good or service is delivered.
Teradyne uses input variables such as hours or months utilized or costs incurred to determine the amount of revenue to recognize in a given period.
Input variables are used as they best align consumption with benefit to the customer.
For transactions that do not meet the criteria for over time recognition, Teradyne will recognize revenue at a point in time based on an assessment of the five criteria for transfer of control.
Teradyne has concluded that revenue should be recognized when shipped or delivered based on contractual terms.
Typically acceptance of Teradyne’s products and services is a formality as Teradyne delivers similar systems, instruments and robots to standard specifications.
In cases where acceptance is not deemed a formality, Teradyne will defer revenue recognition until customer acceptance.
For the three and six months ended July 1, 2018, Teradyne also recognized $3.6 million and $7.9 million, respectively, in revenue on leases of Teradyne systems, which are accounted for outside of ASC 606.
The following table provides information about disaggregated revenue by primary geographical market, major product line and timing of revenue recognition.
 not obligate Teradyne to provide a separate service to the customer and it cannot be purchased separately.
Teradyne’s hardware is recognized at a point in time upon transfer of control to the customer.
Customers have the option to purchase an extended warranty, which extends the warranty period for systems and robots beyond the one-year standard warranty.
The extended warranty is purchased in the same transaction as the system or robot purchase and is classified as a separate performance obligation, which meets the criteria for over time recognition.
The relative standalone selling price of the extended warranty is recognized ratably over the course of the extended warranty based on months completed.
Teradyne sells training and applications support to customers either in standalone transactions or included with system purchases.
Training and applications support included in system orders are valued based on their standalone selling price and all training and applications support is recognized over time as the customer receives and consumes the benefit associated with each.
Teradyne provides support services for certain systems and robots outside of warranty.
These services include telephone support, bug fixes, and when-and-if available upgrades.
Standalone selling price for PCS is not directly observable as Teradyne does not sell these services separately.
Teradyne has estimated the standalone selling price for these services based on adjusted market assessments.
Teradyne does not allow customer returns or provide refunds to customers for any products or services.
The following table provides information about contract liabilities.
Teradyne does not have material contract assets on the balance sheet.
The amount of revenue recognized during the three and six months ended July 1, 2018 that was included within the deferred revenue and customer advances balance at January 1, 2018 was $24.7 million and $46.5 million, respectively, and primarily relates to extended warranties, training, application support, and PCS.
Each of these represents a distinct performance obligation.
Customers typically pay for these services net 30 to 60 days from the date that transfer of control of the associated system or product occurs.
Teradyne does not have material remaining performance obligations from contracts with an original expected duration of greater than one year.
Teradyne makes no significant judgements in determining the amount or timing of revenue recognition.
Teradyne has adopted the practical expedients available within ASC 340 “Other Assets and Deferred Costs” for contract assets, specifically in relation to incremental costs of obtaining a contract.
Teradyne generally expenses sales commissions when incurred because the amortization period would be less than one year.
Teradyne has adopted the practical expedient, which states an entity need not adjust the promised amount of consideration for the effects of a significant financing component if the entity expects, at contract inception, that the period between when the entity transfers a promised good or service to the customer and when the customer pays for that good or service will be one year or less.
Teradyne does not have material payments associated with performance obligations outside this one-year time frame.
The following tables summarize the impact of ASC 606 to Teradyne’s consolidated financial statements.
Differences are the result of timing differences between the recognition of revenue under ASC 606 and ASC 605 primarily with respect to software transactions deferred due to lack of vendor specific objective evidence of price under ASC 605 and Teradyne’s assessment of acceptance under ASC 606.
Under Legacy GAAP, Teradyne did not recognize revenue prior to acceptance if payment, title, or risk of loss was tied to acceptance.
 changes in fair value were recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income on the balance sheet.
Teradyne continues to record realized gains in interest income and realized losses in interest expense.
The adoption of this new accounting guidance increased the January 1, 2018 retained earnings balance by $3.1 million and decreased the accumulated other comprehensive income balance by the same amount.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, “Leases (Topic 842).” The guidance in this ASU supersedes the lease recognition requirements in Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 840, “Leases.” The new standard establishes a right- of-use (“ROU”) model that requires a lessee to record an ROU asset and a lease liability on the balance sheet for all leases with terms longer than twelve months.
A modified retrospective transition approach is required for lessees for capital and operating leases existing at, or entered into after, the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented in the financial statements.
On April 25, 2018, Teradyne acquired all the issued and outstanding shares of Mobile Industrial Robots ApS (“MiR”), a Danish limited liability company located in Odense, Denmark.
MiR is the leading maker of collaborative autonomous mobile robots for industrial applications.
MiR is part of Teradyne’s Industrial Automation segment.
The total preliminary purchase price of $196.6 million consisted of $145.2 million of cash paid and $51.4 million of contingent consideration, measured at fair value.
 Euros upon the achievement of certain thresholds and targets for revenue and earnings before interest and taxes for periods from January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2018; January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2019; and January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2020.
At July 1, 2018, the maximum amount of contingent consideration that could be paid is $117 million.
The allocation of the preliminary total purchase price to MiR’s net tangible liabilities and identifiable intangible assets was based on their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date.
The purchase price and purchase price allocation are preliminary pending the final determination of the fair value of contingent consideration, acquired assets and assumed liabilities.
For the period from April 25, 2018 to July 1, 2018, MiR contributed $4.5 million of revenues and had a $(1.5) million loss from operations before income taxes.
Pro forma results for the three and six months ended July 1, 2018 were adjusted to exclude $2.3 million and $2.9 million, respectively, of acquisition related costs, and $0.4 million of non-recurring expense related to fair value adjustment to acquisition-date inventory.
On February 26, 2018, Teradyne acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of Energid Technologies Corporation (“Energid”) for a total purchase price of approximately $27.6 million.
Energid’s technology enables and simplifies the programming of complex robotic motions used in a wide variety of end markets, ranging from heavy industry to healthcare, utilizing both traditional robots and collaborative robots.
The Energid acquisition was accounted for as a business combination and, accordingly, Energid’s results have been included in Teradyne’s Industrial Automation segment from the date of acquisition.
As of the acquisition date, Teradyne’s purchase price allocation was goodwill of $14.4 million, acquired intangible assets of $12.3 million with an average estimated useful life of 7.7 years, and $1.0 million of net tangible assets.
The acquisition was not material to Teradyne’s condensed consolidated financial statements.
Inventory reserves at July 1, 2018 and December 31, 2017 were $103.2 million and $102.9 million, respectively.
Teradyne considers all highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less at the date of acquisition to be cash equivalents.
The intent and ability to retain the investment in the issuer for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value.
Teradyne’s available-for-sale debt securities are classified as Level 2, and equity securities are classified as Level 1.
Acquisition-related contingent consideration is classified as Level 3.
Teradyne determines the fair value of acquisition-related contingent consideration using a Monte Carlo simulation model.
The vast majority of Level 2 securities are fixed income securities priced by third party pricing vendors.
 $0.2 million and $0.5 million, respectively.
Realized losses recorded in the three and six months ended July 2, 2017 were $0.1 million and $0.2 million, respectively.
Changes in fair value of equity securities are included in other (income) expense, net.
The cost of securities sold is based on the specific identification method.
During the three and six months ended July 1, 2018 and July 2, 2017, there were no transfers in or out of Level 1, Level 2 or Level 3 financial instruments.
The following table sets forth by fair value hierarchy Teradyne’s financial assets and liabilities that were measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of July 1, 2018 and December 31, 2017.
In the three and six months ended July 1, 2018, the fair value of contingent consideration for the earn-out in connection with the acquisition of Universal Robots was decreased by $3.5 million and $8.5 million, respectively, primarily due to a decrease in forecasted revenue.
In the three and six months ended July 2, 2017, the fair value of contingent consideration for the earn-out in connection with the acquisition of Universal Robots was increased by $1.5 million and $2.1 million, respectively, primarily due to a decrease in the discount rate.
As of July 1, 2018, the significant unobservable inputs used in the Monte Carlo simulation to fair value the Universal Robots contingent consideration include forecasted revenue, revenue volatility and discount rate.
The maximum payment for the remaining Universal Robots revenue earn-out is $25.0 million.
As of July 1, 2018, the significant unobservable inputs used in the Monte Carlo simulation to fair value the MiR contingent consideration include forecasted revenue, revenue volatility, and discount rate.
As of July 1, 2018, the maximum amount of contingent consideration that could be paid in connection with the acquisition of MiR is $117.0 million.
The earn-out periods in connection with the MiR acquisition end on December 31, 2018, December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2020.
The fair values of accounts receivable, net and accounts payable approximate the carrying value due to the short-term nature of these instruments.
As of July 1, 2018, the fair market value of investments in available-for-sale securities with unrealized losses totaled $691.6 million.
Of this value, $32.7 million had unrealized losses of $1.6 million for greater than one year and $658.9 million had unrealized losses of $1.7 million for less than one year.
As of December 31, 2017, the fair market value of investments with unrealized losses totaled $1,350.9 million.
Of this value, $141.0 million had unrealized losses of $1.2 million for greater than one year and $1,209.9 million had unrealized losses of $2.2 million for less than one year.
Teradyne reviews its investments to identify and evaluate investments that have an indication of possible impairment.
Contractual maturities of investments in available-for-sale securities held at July 1, 2018 exclude $2.8 million of debt mutual funds as they do not have a contractual maturity date.
The purpose of Teradyne’s foreign currency management is to minimize the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on certain foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities.
To minimize the effect of exchange rate fluctuations associated with the remeasurement of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, Teradyne enters into foreign currency forward contracts.
The change in fair value of these derivatives is recorded directly in earnings, and is used to offset the change in value of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies.
The following table summarizes the effect of derivative instruments recognized in the statement of operations for the three and six months ended July 1, 2018 and July 2, 2017.
For the three and six months ended July 1, 2018, net gains from the remeasurement of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies were $1.9 million and $2.5 million, respectively.
For the three and six months ended July 2, 2017, net losses from the remeasurement of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies were $2.4 million and $0.9 million, respectively.
Teradyne may satisfy its conversion obligation by paying or delivering cash, shares of its common stock or a combination of cash and shares of its common stock, at Teradyne’s election.
The conversion rate for the Notes is 31.4463 shares per $1,000 principal amount, which is equivalent to a conversion price of approximately $31.80 per share of Teradyne’s common stock.
The conversion rate is subject to adjustment under certain circumstances.
Concurrent with the offering of the Notes, Teradyne entered into convertible note hedge transactions (the “Note Hedge Transactions”) with the initial purchasers or their affiliates (the “Option Counterparties”).
The Note Hedge Transactions cover, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, approximately 14.5 million shares of Teradyne’s common stock.
The convertible note hedge is considered indexed to Teradyne’s stock as the terms of the Note Hedge Transactions do not contain an exercise contingency and the settlement amount equals the difference between the fair value of a fixed number of Teradyne’s shares and a fixed strike price.
Separately and concurrent with the pricing of the Notes, Teradyne entered into warrant transactions with the Option Counterparties (the “Warrant Transactions”) in which it sold net-share-settled (or, at its election subject to certain conditions, cash-settled) warrants to the Option Counterparties.
The Warrant Transactions cover, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, approximately 14.5 million shares of common stock.
The strike price of the warrants is approximately $39.91 per share.
The strike price is subject to adjustments under certain circumstances.
The net cost of the Notes Hedge Transactions, after being partially offset by the proceeds from the sale of the warrants, was approximately $33 million.
The Notes are classified as long-term debt in the balance sheet based on their December 15, 2023 maturity date.
Debt issuance costs of approximately $7.2 million are being amortized to interest expense using the effective interest method over the seven year term of the Notes.
As of July 1, 2018, unamortized debt issuance costs were approximately $5.8 million.
As of July 1, 2018, the remaining unamortized discount was $87.1 million, which will be amortized over 5.5 years using the effective interest rate method.
The carrying amount of the equity component was $100.8 million.
The Credit Agreement provides for a five-year, senior secured revolving credit facility of up to $350 million (the “Credit Facility”).
The Credit Agreement further provides that, subject to customary conditions, Teradyne may seek to obtain from existing or new lenders incremental commitments under the Credit Facility in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $150 million.
Proceeds from the Credit Facility may be used for general corporate purposes and working capital.
Teradyne incurred $2.3 million in costs related to the revolving credit facility.
As of August 10, 2018, Teradyne has not borrowed any funds under the Credit Facility.
The interest rates applicable to loans under the Credit Facility are, at Teradyne’s option, equal to either a base rate plus a margin ranging from 0.00% to 1.00% per annum or LIBOR plus a margin ranging from 1.00% to 2.00% per annum, based on the Consolidated Leverage Ratio of Teradyne and its Restricted Subsidiaries.
In addition, Teradyne will pay a commitment fee on the unused portion of the commitments under the Credit Facility ranging from 0.125% to 0.350% per annum, based on the then applicable Consolidated Leverage Ratio.
Teradyne is not required to repay any loans under the Credit Facility prior to maturity, subject to certain customary exceptions.
Teradyne is permitted to prepay all or any portion of the loans under the Credit Facility prior to maturity without premium or penalty, other than customary LIBOR breakage costs.
Teradyne generally provides a one-year warranty on its products, commencing upon installation, acceptance, delivery or shipment.
A provision is recorded upon revenue recognition to cost of revenues for estimated warranty expense based on historical experience.
When Teradyne receives revenue for extended warranties, beyond one year, it is deferred and recognized on a straight-line basis over the contract period.
The balance below is included in short and long-term deferred revenue and customer advances on the balance sheet.
Teradyne expenses the cost of the restricted stock unit awards subject to time-based vesting, which is determined to be the fair market value of the shares at the date of grant, ratably over the period during which the restrictions lapse.
Commencing in January 2014, Teradyne granted performance-based restricted stock units (“PRSUs”) to its executive officers with a performance metric based on relative total shareholder return (“TSR”).
For TSR grants issued in 2018 and 2017, Teradyne’s three-year TSR performance is measured against the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) Composite Index.
The final number of TSR PRSUs that vest will vary based upon the level of performance achieved from 200% to 0% of the target shares capped at four times the grant date value.
The TSR PRSUs are valued using a Monte Carlo simulation model.
The number of units expected to be earned, based upon the achievement of the TSR market condition, is factored into the grant date Monte Carlo valuation.
Compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the three-year service period or the period from the grant date to the date described in the retirement provisions below.
Compensation expense for employees meeting the retirement provisions prior to the grant date will be recognized in full on the date of the grant.
Compensation expense is recognized regardless of the eventual number of units that are earned based upon the market condition, provided the executive officer remains an employee at the end of the three-year period.
Compensation expense is reversed if at any time during the three-year service period the executive officer is no longer an employee, subject to the retirement and termination eligibility provisions noted below.
In January 2018 and 2017, Teradyne granted PRSUs to its executive officers with a performance metric based on three-year cumulative non-GAAP profit before interest and tax (“PBIT”) as a percent of Teradyne’s revenue.
The final number of PBIT PRSUs that vest will vary based upon the level of performance achieved from 200% to 0% of the target shares.
Compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the three year service period or the period from the grant date to the date described in the retirement provisions below.
Compensation expense is recognized based on the number of units that are earned based upon the three-year Teradyne PBIT as a percent of Teradyne’s revenue, provided the executive officer remains an employee at the end of the three-year period subject to the retirement and termination eligibility provisions noted below.
Beginning with PRSUs granted in January 2014, if the recipient’s employment ends prior to the determination of the performance percentage due to (1) permanent disability or death or (2) retirement or termination other than for cause, after attaining both at least age sixty and at least ten years of service, then all or a portion of the recipient’s PRSUs (based on the actual performance percentage achieved on the determination date) will vest on the date the performance percentage is determined.
Except as set forth in the preceding sentence, no PRSUs will vest if the executive officer is no longer an employee at the end of the three-year period.
Expected volatility was based on the historical volatility of Teradyne’s stock and the NYSE Composite Index for the 2018 and 2017 grant over the most recent three-year period.
Dividend yield was based upon an estimated annual dividend amount of $0.36 per share for 2018 grants and $0.28 per share for 2017 grants, divided by Teradyne’s stock price on the grant date of $47.70 for the 2018 grant and $28.56 for the 2017 grant.
During the six months ended July 1, 2018, Teradyne granted 0.6 million of service-based restricted stock unit awards to employees at a weighted average grant date fair value of $46.38, 0.1 million of service-based restricted stock unit awards to non-employee directors at a weighted average grant date fair value of $35.81, and 0.1 million of service-based stock options to executive officers at a weighted average grant date fair value of $12.17.
During the six months ended July 2, 2017, Teradyne granted 0.8 million of service-based restricted stock unit awards to employees at a weighted average grant date fair value of $27.98, 0.1 million of service-based restricted stock unit awards to non-employee directors at a weighted average grant date fair value of $35.21, and 0.1 million of service-based stock options to executive officers at a weighted average grant date fair value of $7.13.
Stock options to purchase Teradyne’s common stock at 100% of the fair market value on the grant date vest in equal annual installments over four years from the grant date and have a maximum term of seven years.
Teradyne determined the stock options’ expected life based upon historical exercise data for executive officers, the age of the executive officers and the terms of the stock option grant.
Volatility was determined using historical volatility for a period equal to the expected life.
Dividend yield was based upon an estimated annual dividend amount of $0.36 per share for 2018 grants and $0.28 per share for 2017 grants divided by Teradyne’s stock price on the grant date of $47.70 for the 2018 grant and $28.56 for the 2017 grant.
Teradyne performs its annual goodwill impairment test as required under the provisions of ASC 350-10, “Intangibles—Goodwill and Other” on December 31 of each fiscal year unless interim indicators of impairment exist.
Goodwill is considered impaired when the net book value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value.
Includes intangible assets acquired in 2018, $79.7 million from the MiR acquisition and $12.3 million from the Energid acquisition.
In 2018, $0.3 million of amortizable intangible assets became fully amortized and have been eliminated from the gross carrying amount and accumulated amortization.
Aggregate intangible asset amortization expense was $9.8 million and $17.5 million, respectively, for the three and six months ended July 1, 2018 and $8.2 million and $16.1 million, respectively, for the three and six months ended July 2, 2017.
Incremental shares from assumed conversion of the convertible notes was calculated using the difference between the average Teradyne stock price for the period and the conversion price of $31.80, multiplied by 14.5 million shares.
The result of this calculation, representing the total intrinsic value of the convertible debt, was divided by the average Teradyne stock price for the period.
Convertible notes hedge warrant shares were calculated using the difference between the average Teradyne stock price for the period and the warrant price of $39.91, multiplied by 14.5 million shares.
The result of this calculation, representing the total intrinsic value of the warrant, was divided by the average Teradyne stock price for the period.
The computation of diluted net income per common share for the three and six months ended July 1, 2018 excludes the effect of the potential vesting of 0.6 million and 0.5 million shares of restricted stock units because the effect would have been anti-dilutive.
During the six months ended July 1, 2018, Teradyne recorded $6.3 million for employee severance charges, primarily in Semiconductor Test and Industrial Automation, $3.3 million for acquisition related expenses, partially offset by an $8.5 million gain for the decrease in the fair value of the Universal Robots contingent consideration liability.
During the three months ended July 2, 2017, Teradyne recorded $1.5 million for the increase in the fair value of the Universal Robots contingent consideration liability and $0.8 million for employee severance charges.
During the six months ended July 2, 2017, Teradyne recorded $2.1 million for the increase in the fair value of the Universal Robots contingent consideration liability, $1.4 million for employee severance charges, primarily in Corporate and Industrial Automation, and a $1.3 million charge for a lease impairment of a Wireless Test facility in Sunnyvale, CA, which was terminated in September 2017.
The pension asset or liability represents a difference between the fair value of the pension plan’s assets and the projected benefit obligation.
Benefits under these plans are based on employees’ years of service and compensation.
The assets of the U.S. qualified pension plan consist primarily of fixed income and equity securities.
Under the group annuity, the accrued pension obligations for approximately 1,700 retiree participants were transferred to an insurance company.
In the six months ended July 1, 2018, Teradyne contributed $1.3 million to the U.S. supplemental executive defined benefit pension plan and $0.4 million to certain qualified pension plans for non-U.S. subsidiaries.
In addition to receiving pension benefits, Teradyne employees in the United States who meet early retirement eligibility requirements as of their termination dates may participate in Teradyne’s Welfare Plan, which includes medical and dental benefits up to age 65.
Substantially all of Teradyne’s current U.S. employees could become eligible for these benefits, and the existing benefit obligation relates primarily to those employees.
As of July 1, 2018, Teradyne had entered into purchase commitments for certain components and materials.
The purchase commitments covered by the agreements aggregate to approximately $310.4 million, of which $302.7 million is for less than one year.
The effective tax rate for the three months ended July 1, 2018 and July 2, 2017 was 15.8% and 15.4%, respectively.
The effective tax rate for the six months ended July 1, 2018 and July 2, 2017 was 12.9%.
The increase in the effective tax rate from the three months ended July 2, 2017 to the three months ended July 1, 2018 primarily resulted from a projected shift in the geographic distribution of income, which increased income subject to taxation in the U.S. relative to lower tax rate jurisdictions.
The $0.7 million of discrete tax benefit recorded in the three months ended July 1, 2018 consisted primarily of non-taxable foreign exchange gains.
The $6.7 million of discrete benefits recorded in the six months ended July 2, 2018 consisted of $9.1 million of discrete tax benefit net of $2.4 million of discrete tax expense.
The $9.1 million of discrete tax benefit was composed of $7.6 million from stock based compensation, $1.1 million of non-taxable foreign exchange gains and $0.4 million of other discrete tax benefit.
Discrete tax items recorded in the three and six months ended July 2, 2017 amounted to expense of $0.5 million and benefit of $6.5 million, respectively.
The $0.5 million of discrete tax expense recorded in the three months ended July 2, 2017 was primarily composed of $1.0 million of expense related to actuarial gains, $0.7 million of expense from non-taxable foreign exchange loss and $1.0 million of benefit from stock based compensation, and $0.2 million of other discrete tax benefit.
The $6.5 million of discrete tax benefit recorded in the six months ended July 2, 2017 was primarily composed of $6.5 million of benefit from stock-based
 compensation, $1.0 million of expense related to actuarial gains, $0.7 million of benefit related to U.S. research and development tax credits and $0.3 million of expense from non-taxable foreign exchange loss, and $0.6 million of other discrete benefit.
As of July 1, 2018, Teradyne believes that it will ultimately realize the deferred tax assets recorded on the condensed consolidated balance sheet.
As of July 1, 2018 and December 31, 2017, Teradyne had $37.9 million and $36.3 million, respectively, of reserves for uncertain tax positions.
The $1.6 million net increase in reserves for uncertain tax positions is primarily composed of additions related to transfer pricing exposures and U.S. research and development tax credits.
As of July 1, 2018 and December 31, 2017, $0.3 million and $0.3 million, respectively, of interest and penalties were accrued for uncertain tax positions.
For the six months ended July 1, 2018, an expense of $0.1 million was recorded for interest and penalties related to income tax items.
For the six months ended July 2, 2017, a benefit of $0.1 million was recorded for interest and penalties related to income tax items.
Teradyne qualifies for a tax holiday in Singapore by fulfilling the requirements of an agreement with the Singapore Economic Development Board under which certain headcount and spending requirements must be met.
The tax savings due to the tax holiday for the six months ended July 1, 2018 was $4.8 million, or $0.02 per diluted share.
The tax savings due to the tax holiday for the six months ended July 2, 2017 was $15.1 million, or $0.07 per diluted share.
The tax holiday is scheduled to expire on December 31, 2020.
Any adjustment to the provisional amounts will be recorded in 2018 when the analysis is complete.
Teradyne has four reportable segments (Semiconductor Test, System Test, Industrial Automation and Wireless Test).
Total business assets are directly attributable to each business.
Corporate assets consist of cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and certain other assets.
In January 2018, Teradyne’s Board of Directors cancelled the December 2016 stock repurchase program and authorized a new stock repurchase program for up to $1.5 billion of common stock.
Teradyne intends to repurchase $750 million in 2018.
During the six months ended July 1, 2018, Teradyne repurchased 8.8 million shares of common stock for $360.8 million at an average price of $40.82 per share.
During the six months ended July 2, 2017, Teradyne repurchased 3.0 million shares of common stock for $94.3 million at an average price of $31.77 per share.
The total price includes commissions and is recorded as a reduction to retained earnings.
Holders of Teradyne’s common stock are entitled to receive dividends when they are declared by Teradyne’s Board of Directors.
In January 2018 and May 2018, Teradyne’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.09 per share.
In January 2017 and May 2017, Teradyne’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.07 per share.
While Teradyne declared a quarterly cash dividend and authorized a share repurchase program, it may reduce or eliminate the cash dividend or share repurchase program in the future.
Future cash dividends and stock repurchases are subject to the discretion of Teradyne’s Board of Directors, which will consider, among other things, Teradyne’s earnings, capital requirements and financial condition.
It is uncertain whether this proposed tariff will be implemented and, if implemented, as to the products that will be covered.
