fls.txt



item1.txt
The interim financial data as of September 30, 2019, and for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 are unaudited; however, in the opinion of MKS, the interim data includes all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair statement of the results for the interim periods.
2018-16,  “Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815).” This standard permits the use of the Overnight Index Swap Rate (“OIS”) based on the Secured Overnight Financing Rate as a U.S. benchmark interest rate for hedge accounting purposes under Topic 815 in addition to the interest rates on direct treasury obligations of the U.S. government, the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) swap rate, the OIS rate based on the Federal Funds Effective Rate and the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association Municipal Swap Rate.
The Company adopted this ASU during the first quarter of 2019 and the adoption of this ASU did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
the impact of pending adoption on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
The Company adopted this ASU during the first quarter of 2019 and the adoption of this ASU did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
As such, the Company did not adjust prior period amounts.
The Company also elected to adopt the package of practical expedients upon transition, which permits companies to not reassess lease identification, classification, and initial direct costs for leases that commenced prior to the effective date.
The Company implemented internal controls and a lease accounting information system to enable preparation on adoption.
The Company does not have any finance leases.
right-of-use asset of $67,632, short-term lease liability of $20,575 and long-term lease liability of $47,294 were reflected on the balance sheet as of September 30, 2019.
Management has the ability, if necessary, to liquidate any of its investments in order to meet the Company’s liquidity needs in the next 12 months.
Level 2 assets and liabilities include debt securities with quoted prices that are traded less frequently than exchange-traded instruments or securities or derivative contracts that are valued using a pricing model with inputs that are observable in the market or can be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data.
Level 3 assets and liabilities include financial instruments whose value is determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies, or similar techniques, as well as instruments for which the determination of fair value requires significant management judgment or estimation.
In such cases, the Company categorizes such assets and liabilities based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety.
The long-term investments presented in the table above do not include the Company’s minority interest investment in a private company, which is accounted for under the cost method.
The long-term investments presented in the table above do not include the Company’s minority interest investment in a private company, which is accounted for under the cost method.
Available-for-sale investments consisted of time deposits, certificates of deposit, bankers’ acceptance drafts, asset-backed securities (which include auto loans, credit card receivables and equipment trust receivables), commercial paper, corporate obligations, U.S. treasury obligations, U.S. agency obligations and group insurance contracts.
The Company measures its debt and equity investments at fair value.


item2.txt
At the effective time of the ESI Merger and pursuant to the terms and conditions of the merger agreement, each share of ESI’s common stock that was issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the ESI Merger was converted into the right to receive $30.00 in cash, without interest and subject to deduction of any required withholding tax.
non-cash consideration related to the exchange of share-based awards of approximately $31 million for a total purchase consideration of approximately $1.063 billion.
We funded the payment of the aggregate consideration with a combination of our available cash on hand and the proceeds from our senior secured term loan facility as described below.
Approximately 52% and 44% of our net revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, were from sales to customers in our advanced markets.
Approximately 48% and 56% of our net revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, were from sales to semiconductor capital equipment manufacturers and semiconductor device manufacturers.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, international net revenues accounted for approximately 53% and 50% of our total net revenues, respectively.
right-of-use assets are recorded based on the present value of lease payments over the expected remaining fixed lease term.
Gross profit as a percentage of net service revenues increased by 5.1 percentage points and 0.8 percentage points for the three and nine month periods ended September 30, 2019, respectively, compared to the same periods in the prior year, primarily due to favorable absorption and favorable product mix, partially offset by higher material costs.
Excluding this adjustment, the gross margin for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 would have been 43.6% for this period.
Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $11.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2019, compared to the same period in the prior year.


item4.txt



part2.txt
A-16-734039-B, were filed in the District Court, Clark County, Nevada on behalf of a putative class of stockholders of Newport Corporation (“Newport”) for claims related to the merger agreement (“Newport Merger Agreement”) between the Company, Newport, and a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company (“Merger Sub”).


