ITEM 2.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Certain statements in this report may constitute “forward-looking” statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
The terms “may,” “should,” “could,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “continues,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “objective,” “plan,” “potential,” “project” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict.
These statements are based on management’s current expectations, intentions or beliefs and are subject to a number of factors, assumptions and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements.
Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences or that might otherwise impact the business include the risk factors set forth in Item 1A, of our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on August 2, 2018.
We undertake no obligation to update any such factor or to publicly announce the results of any revisions to any forward-looking statements contained herein whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
In addition, while we do, from time to time, communicate with securities analysts, it is against our policy to disclose to them any material non-public information or other confidential commercial information.
Accordingly, stockholders should not assume that we agree with any statement or report issued by any analyst irrespective of the content of the statement or report.
Thus, to the extent that reports issued by securities analysts contain any projections, forecasts or opinions, such reports are not our responsibility.
INTRODUCTION
•
Business Overview – a brief synopsis of our Company for the periods ended September 1, 2018 and September 2, 2017.
•
Results of Operations – an analysis and comparison of our consolidated results of operations for the three month periods ended September 1, 2018 and September 2, 2017, as reflected in our consolidated statements of comprehensive (loss) income.
•
Liquidity, Financial Position and Capital Resources – a discussion of our primary sources and uses of cash for the three month periods ended September 1, 2018 and September 2, 2017, and a discussion of changes in our financial position.
Business Overview
Richardson Electronics, Ltd. is a leading global provider of engineered solutions, power grid and microwave tubes and related consumables; power conversion and RF and microwave components; high value flat panel detector solutions, replacement parts, tubes and service training for diagnostic imaging equipment; and customized display solutions.
We serve customers in the alternative energy, healthcare, aviation, broadcast, communications, industrial, marine, medical, military, scientific and semiconductor markets.
The Company’s strategy is to provide specialized technical expertise and “engineered solutions” based on our core engineering and manufacturing capabilities.
The Company provides solutions and adds value through design-in support, systems integration, prototype design and manufacturing, testing, logistics and aftermarket technical service and repair through its global infrastructure.
Our products include electron tubes and related components, microwave generators, subsystems used in semiconductor manufacturing and visual technology solutions.
These products are used to control, switch or amplify electrical power signals, or are used as display devices in a variety of industrial, commercial, medical and communication applications.
Power and Microwave Technologies Group (“PMT”) combines our core engineered solutions, power grid and microwave tube business with new RF and power technologies.
As a manufacturer and authorized distributor, PMT’s strategy is to provide specialized technical expertise and engineered solutions based on our core engineering and manufacturing capabilities.
We provide solutions and add value through design-in support, systems integration, prototype design and manufacturing, testing, logistics and aftermarket technical service and repair—all through our existing global infrastructure.
PMT’s focus is on products for power, RF and microwave applications for customers in alternative energy, aviation, broadcast, communications, industrial, marine, medical, military, scientific and semiconductor markets.
PMT focuses on various applications including broadcast transmission, CO2 laser cutting, diagnostic imaging, dielectric and induction heating, high energy transfer, high voltage switching, plasma, power conversion, radar and radiation oncology.
PMT also offers its customers technical services for both microwave and industrial equipment.
Canvys provides customized display solutions serving the corporate enterprise, financial, healthcare, industrial and medical original equipment manufacturers markets.
Our engineers design, manufacture, source and support a full spectrum of solutions to match the needs of our customers.
We offer long term availability and proven custom display solutions that include touch screens, protective panels, custom enclosures, all-in-ones, specialized cabinet finishes and application specific software packages and certification services.
Our volume commitments are lower than the large display manufacturers, making us the ideal choice for companies with very specific design requirements.
We partner with both private label manufacturing companies and leading branded hardware vendors to offer the highest quality display and touch solutions and customized computing platforms.
Healthcare manufactures, refurbishes and distributes high value replacement parts for the healthcare market including hospitals, medical centers, asset management companies, independent service organizations and multi-vendor service providers.
Products include Diagnostic Imaging replacement parts for CT and MRI systems; replacement CT and MRI tubes; CT service training; MRI coils, cold heads and RF amplifiers; hydrogen thyratrons, klystrons, magnetrons; flat panel detector upgrades; and additional replacement solutions currently under development for the diagnostic imaging service market.
Through a combination of newly developed products and partnerships, service offerings and training programs, we believe we can help our customers improve efficiency and deliver better clinical outcomes while lowering the cost of healthcare delivery.
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Financial Summary – Three Months Ended September 1, 2018
•
The first three months of fiscal 2019 and 2018 contained 13 and 14 weeks, respectively.
•
Net sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 were $44.2 million, an increase of 19.4%, compared to net sales of $37.0 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
•
Gross margin decreased to 31.6% during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to 32.8% during the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
•
Selling, general and administrative expenses were $13.1 million, or 29.7% of net sales, for the first quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to $12.3 million, or 33.3% of net sales, for the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
•
Operating income during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was $0.9 million, compared to an operating income of less than $0.1 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
•
Net income during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was $0.4 million, compared to net loss of $0.1 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
Net Sales and Gross Profit Analysis
During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, consolidated net sales increased 19.4% compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
Sales for PMT increased 19.4%, sales for Canvys increased 24.4% and sales for Healthcare increased 5.2%.
The increase in PMT was due to market share gains in the RF and Microwave tube business as well as major growth in our new technology partners in power conversion and RF and Microwave components.
The increase for Canvys was due to increased customer demand in both our North American and European markets.
The increase in Richardson Healthcare was due to increased Equipment and CT tube sales, partially offset by lower part sales.
Gross profit reflects the distribution and manufacturing product margin less manufacturing variances, inventory obsolescence charges, customer returns, scrap and cycle count adjustments, engineering costs and other provisions.
Consolidated gross profit increased to $14.0 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to $12.1 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
Consolidated gross margin as a percentage of net sales decreased to 31.6% during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, from 32.8% during the first quarter of fiscal 2018, primarily due to unfavorable product mix for PMT, unfavorable product mix and manufacturing variances for Richardson Healthcare, partially offset by favorable product mix and lower costs on selected products for Canvys.
Power and Microwave Technologies Group
PMT net sales increased 19.4% to $34.8 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, from $29.1 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
The increase was due to market share gains in RF and Microwave tube business as well as major growth in our new technology partners in power conversion and RF and Microwave components.
Gross margin as a percentage of net sales decreased to 31.7% during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to 32.9% during the first quarter of fiscal 2018, due to unfavorable product mix.
Canvys
Canvys net sales increased 24.4% to $7.2 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, from $5.8 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2018 due to increased customer demand in both our North American and European markets.
Gross margin as a percentage of net sales increased to 32.2% during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to 26.8% during the first quarter of fiscal 2018, due to favorable product mix and lower costs on selected products sold.
Healthcare
Healthcare net sales increased 5.2% to $2.2 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, from $2.1 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2018 due to increased Equipment and CT tube sales, partially offset by lower part sales.
Gross margin as a percentage of net sales decreased to 28.6% during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to 48.8% during the first quarter of fiscal 2018 due to an unfavorable product mix and manufacturing variances.
Selling, General, and Administrative Expenses
Selling, general and administrative expenses increased to $13.1 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 from $12.3 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
The increase was due to higher compensation and other expenses mostly related to the increase in net sales.
Operating expenses as a percent of net sales decreased to 29.7% in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 from 33.3% in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
Income Tax Provision
We recorded an income tax provision of $0.3 million and $0.1 million for the first three months of fiscal 2019 and the first three months of fiscal 2018, respectively.
The effective income tax rate during the first three months of fiscal 2019 was a tax provision of 38.6%, as compared to a tax provision of (133.3%) during the first three months of fiscal 2018.
The difference in rate during the first three months of fiscal 2019, as compared to the first three months of fiscal 2018, reflects the change from overall loss to overall income realized through the first quarter in each respective period, changes in our geographical distribution of income (loss), the recording of provision to return true-ups of various foreign jurisdictions and our positions with respect to ASC 740-30, Income Taxes - Other Considerations or Special Areas.
The 38.6% effective income tax rate differs from the federal statutory rate of 21% as a result of our geographical distribution of income (loss) and the movement of the valuation allowance against our U.S. state and federal net deferred tax assets.
In the normal course of business, we are subject to examination by taxing authorities throughout the world.
Generally, years prior to fiscal 2008 are closed for examination under the statute of limitation for U.S. federal, U.S. state and local or non-U.S. tax jurisdictions.
We are currently under examination in Thailand (fiscal 2008 through 2011).
Our primary foreign tax jurisdictions are Germany and the Netherlands.
We have tax years open in Germany beginning in fiscal 2015 and the Netherlands beginning in fiscal 2012.
Net Income (Loss) and Per Share Data
Net income during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was $0.4 million or $0.03 per diluted common share and $0.03 per Class B diluted common share, as compared to net loss of $0.1 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2018, or ($0.01) per diluted common share and ($0.01) per Class B diluted common share.
LIQUIDITY, FINANCIAL POSITION AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
Our operations and cash needs have been primarily financed through income from operations and cash on hand.
We believe that the existing sources of liquidity, including current cash, will provide sufficient resources to meet known capital requirements and working capital needs through the next twelve months.
Cash Flows from Operating Activities
The cash used in operating activities primarily resulted from adjustments for non-cash items and changes in our operating assets and liabilities.
Operating activities used $3.6 million of cash during the first three months of fiscal 2019.
We had net income of $0.4 million during the first three months of fiscal 2019, which included non-cash stock-based compensation expense of $0.2 million associated with the issuance of stock option and restricted stock awards, $0.2 million for inventory reserve provisions and depreciation and amortization expense of $0.8 million associated with our property and equipment as well as amortization of our intangible assets.
Changes in our operating assets and liabilities resulted in a use of cash of $5.3 million during the first three months of fiscal 2019, net of foreign currency exchange gains and losses, included a decrease of $5.4 million in accounts payable and an increase in accounts receivable of $0.2 million, partially offset by an increase in accrued liabilities of $0.2 million.
The decrease in our accounts payable was due to timing of payments for some of our larger vendors for both inventory and services.
Cash Flows from Investing Activities
The cash flow used in investing activities consisted primarily of purchases of investments and capital expenditures.
Cash used in investing activities of $3.4 million during the first three months of fiscal 2019 included $2.3 million from purchases of investments and $1.1 million in capital expenditures.
Capital expenditures relates primarily to our Healthcare growth initiatives, a new air conditioner unit for the building and capital used for our IT system.
Our purchases of investments consisted of a CD.
Purchasing of future investments may vary from period to period due to interest and foreign currency exchange rates.
Cash Flows from Financing Activities
The cash flow from financing activities consisted primarily of cash dividends paid.
Cash used in financing activities of $0.6 million during the first three months of fiscal 2019 resulted from $0.8 million of cash used to pay dividends partially offset by $0.2 million of proceeds from the issuance of common stock from stock option exercises.
All future payments of dividends are at the discretion of the Board of Directors.
Dividend payments will depend on earnings, capital requirements, operating conditions and such other factors that the Board may deem relevant.
ITEM 2.
UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS
ITEM 5.
OTHER INFORMATION
Results of Operation and Financial Condition and Declaration of Dividend
On October 10, 2018, we issued a press release reporting results for our first quarter ended September 1, 2018, and the declaration of a cash dividend.
A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 10-Q and incorporated by reference herein.
Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
We held our annual meeting of stockholders on October 9, 2018.
At the annual meeting, our stockholders (i) elected each of the nominees listed below to the Company's Board of Directors to serve for a term expiring at the 2019 Annual Meeting; (ii) ratified the selection of BDO USA, LLP as our independent registered public accounting firm for fiscal year 2019; (iii) approved, on an advisory basis, the compensation of the Company's named executive officers, and (iv) approved an amendment to the 2011 Long-Term Incentive Plan to increase the number of shares available under the plan.
The final results for the votes regarding each proposal are set forth below.
ITEM 6.
EXHIBITS
Exhibit Index
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
