fls.txt
Important factors that could cause actual future activities and results to differ materially from those expressed in such forward-looking statements include, among others, variation in demand for our products and services, reliance on third-party relationships, reliance on key personnel, the inherent risks associated with international operations and the continued uncertainties in the global economy, our continued effort to market and sell both domestically and internationally, foreign currency exchange rates, the potential legal and financial liabilities and reputation damage due to cyber-attacks and security breaches, and management of our growth.
These risks and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in such forward-looking statements are described more completely in Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 and other filings we make with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).


item1.txt
Results for reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, 2019 are presented under ASC 842, while prior period amounts were not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with the Company’s historical accounting under ASC 840 “Leases”.
In June 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-13, “Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments,” which requires measurement and recognition of expected credit losses for financial assets measured at amortized cost, including accounts receivable, upon initial recognition of that financial asset using a forward-looking expected loss model, rather than an incurred loss model.
Credit losses relating to available-for-sale debt securities should be recorded through an allowance for credit losses when the fair value is below the amortized cost of the asset, removing the concept of “other-than-temporary” impairments.
The Company does not expect the adoption of this standard will have a material effect on its financial position or results of operations.
Contract assets are client committed amounts for which revenue recognized exceeds the amount billed to the client and the right to payment is subject to conditions other than the passage of time, such as the completion of a related performance obligation.
Contract assets and deferred revenue are netted at the contract level for each reporting period.
The change in deferred revenue in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 was primarily due to revenue recognized during the period that was included in deferred revenue at December 31, 2018, partially offset by new billings in advance of revenue recognition.
The Company records its cash equivalents, marketable securities, and investments in privately-held companies at fair value on a recurring basis.
Fair value is an exit price, representing the amount that would be received from the sale of an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants based on assumptions that market participants would use in pricing an asset or liability.
The Company’s cash equivalents are composed of money market funds and time deposits, which are classified within Level 1 and Level 2, respectively, in the fair value hierarchy.
The Company’s marketable securities, which are classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy, are valued based on a market approach using quoted prices, when available, or matrix pricing compiled by third-party pricing vendors, using observable market inputs such as interest rates, yield curves, and credit risk.
The Company’s investments in privately-held companies are classified within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.
If applicable, the Company will recognize transfers into and out of levels within the fair value hierarchy at the end of the reporting period in which the actual event or change in circumstance occurs.
For certain other financial instruments, including accounts receivable and accounts payable, the carrying value approximates fair value due to the relatively short maturity of these items.
The Company accounts for a contract as a lease when it has the right to control the asset for a period of time while obtaining substantially all of the asset’s economic benefits.
The Company determines the initial classification and measurement of its operating right of use assets and lease liabilities at the lease commencement date and thereafter if modified.
The lease liability includes lease payments related to options to extend or renew the lease term if the Company is 
The Company’s leases do not contain any material residual value guarantees or restrictive covenants.
As of September 30, 2019, the Company had $95.6 million of unrecognized stock-based compensation expense, net of estimated forfeitures, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.2 years.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2019, the Company issued 1.1 million shares of common stock under the Company’s stock-based compensation plans.
Diluted earnings per share is computed using the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the applicable period, plus the dilutive effect of outstanding stock options and RSUs, using the treasury stock method.


item2.txt
Our cloud-architected portfolio of customer engagement and digital process automation applications leverages artificial intelligence (“AI”), case management, and robotic automation technology, built on our unified no-code Pega Platform, empowering businesses to quickly design, extend, and scale their enterprise applications to meet strategic business needs.
The change in ACV measures the growth and predictability of future cash flows from Pega Cloud and Client Cloud committed arrangements as of the end of the particular reporting period.
Our cloud revenue is derived from our hosted Pega Platform and software applications.
The decreases in perpetual license revenue in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 reflects the shift in client preferences in favor of our cloud offerings instead of our perpetual license arrangements.
The recent shift in our revenue mix toward cloud arrangements has resulted in slower total gross profit growth as our cloud business continues to grow and scale.
Revenue from cloud arrangements is generally recognized over the service period, while revenue from term and perpetual license arrangements is generally recognized upfront when the license rights become effective.
The increase in total gross profit in the three months ended September 30, 2019 was primarily due to an increase in term revenue recognized from several large, multi-year term license contracts in the three months ended September 30, 2019.
It was also due to an increase in cloud revenue reflecting the shift in client preferences to cloud arrangements from other types of arrangements, an increase in maintenance revenue due to the continued growth in the aggregate value of the installed base of our software and strong renewal rates in excess of 90%.
The decrease in total gross profit in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 was primarily due to a decrease in term and perpetual license revenue and a decrease in consulting revenue due to a decrease in billable hours.
The decrease in total gross profit percent in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 was driven by the shift in client preferences in favor of cloud arrangements, which are lower margin than our term and perpetual license revenue streams and decreases in cloud and consulting gross profit percent.
The decreases in cloud gross profit percent in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 were driven by an increase in costs as we accelerated our investments in cloud infrastructure and service delivery to support future growth.
The decreases in consulting gross profit percent in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 were driven by a decrease in billable hours as consulting resources were transitioning to new projects after completing a large project and an increase in consulting resource availability as we continue growing and leveraging our partner network.
The increases in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 were primarily due to compensation and benefits of $22.6 million and $58.1 million, attributable to increased headcount, equity compensation, and increases of $4.0 million and $10.6 million in deferred contract cost amortization.
The increases in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 were primarily due to compensation and benefits of $3.8 million and $10.5 million, attributable to an increase in headcount and equity compensation, and $1.2 million and $4.5 million in cloud hosting expenses as we expand our cloud-focused research and development activities.
The increases in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 were primarily due to compensation and benefits of $3.2 million and $3.7 million, due to increased headcount.
The increases in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 were primarily due to the increased value of our annual periodic equity awards granted in March 2019 and 2018 and increased headcount.
The inclusion of excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation in the provision for income taxes has increased the variability of the effective tax rates in recent periods.
This fluctuation may continue in future periods, depending on our future stock price in relation to the fair value of awards, the timing of RSU vestings, the exercise behavior of our stock option holders, and the total value of future grants of stock-based compensation awards.
We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, cash flow from operations, and borrowing capacity will be sufficient to fund our operations, quarterly cash dividends, and stock repurchases for at least the next 12 months.
Whether these resources are adequate to meet our liquidity needs beyond that period will depend on our growth, operating results, and the investments required to meet possible increased demand for our services.
As client preferences continue to shift in favor of cloud arrangements, we could continue to experience slower operating cash flow growth, or negative cash flow, in the near term.
Cash from cloud arrangements is generally collected over an average service period of three years, while cash from perpetual license arrangements is generally collected upfront, shortly after the license rights become effective.
The primary driver of the decrease in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 was the recent shift in our revenue mix toward cloud arrangements, which are generally collected over an average service period of three years, and increased costs as the Company accelerated investments in its cloud offerings and selling and marketing activities to support future growth.
We primarily used cash in financing activities for repurchases of our common stock under our publicly announced stock repurchase programs, stock repurchases for tax withholdings for the net settlement of our equity awards, and the payment of our quarterly dividend.
Subject to specific circumstances, the Credit Agreement allows us to increase the aggregate commitment up to $200 million.
We are obligated to pay an unused commitment fee during the term of the Credit Agreement that varies between 0.15% and 0.225% depending on our net consolidated leverage ratio.


part2.txt
On November 6, 2019, we entered into a five-year $100 million, senior secured revolving credit agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) with PNC Bank, National Association (“PNC”).
Subject to specific circumstances, the Credit Agreement allows us to increase the aggregate commitment up to $200 million.
On November 6, 2019, we entered into a five-year $100 million senior secured revolving credit agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) with PNC Bank, National Association (“PNC”).
Subject to specific circumstances, the Credit Agreement allows us to increase the aggregate commitment up to $200 million.
The Credit Agreement contains customary representations and warranties, affirmative and negative covenants, and events of default.
Our obligations under the Credit Agreement may be accelerated upon the occurrence of an event of default under the Credit Agreement, which includes, among other things, payment defaults, defaults in the performance of 
We are obligated to pay an unused commitment fee during the term of the Credit Agreement that varies between 0.15% and 0.225% depending on our net consolidated leverage ratio.
The credit facility includes a provision for the replacement of the LIBOR rate in the event that such rate is no longer available.


