fls.txt
These statements include, but are not limited to, statements about our future financial performance and business plans, the adequacy of our liquidity and capital resources, the continued payment of quarterly dividends, and the timing of revenue recognition and are described more completely in Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
These risk factors could materially affect our business, financial condition, and future results and could cause our actual business and financial results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements made in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or elsewhere by management from time to time.


item1.txt
•   Perpetual licenses with extended payment terms and term licenses - Revenue from perpetual license with extended payment terms and term license is now recognized when control is transferred to the client, the point in time when the client can use and benefit from the license.
Unbilled receivables in the Company’s unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets increased significantly due to the revenue from perpetual license with extended payment terms and term license being recognized prior to amounts billed, or prepaid by, clients.
•   Allocation of future credits and significant discounts - The perpetual or term licenses delivered are a separate performance obligation which now requires us to allocate any future credits and discounts to the performance obligations in the arrangement based upon their relative stand-alone selling prices.
(1)  Includes cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, income taxes receivable, other current assets, property and equipment, intangible assets, goodwill, and other long-term assets (as reflected in the consolidated balance sheets in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017).
Contract assets are unbilled amounts resulting from client contracts where revenue recognized exceeds the amount billed to the client and the right to payment is subject to conditions other than the passage of time, such as the completion of a related performance obligation.
The change in deferred revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2018, excluding the impact of the netting of contract assets and deferred revenue, was primarily due to new billings in advance of revenue recognition and $101.6 million of revenue recognized that was included in deferred revenue at December 31, 2017.
The Company’s investments in privately-held companies are classified within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy and are valued using model-based techniques, including option pricing models and discounted cash flow models.
If applicable, the Company will recognize transfers into and out of levels within the fair value hierarchy at the end of the reporting period in which the actual event or change in circumstance occurs.
During the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, the Company did not recognize any impairments of its assets recorded at fair value on a nonrecurring basis.
The Company’s revenue is derived from sales of software licenses, maintenance fees related to the Company’s software licenses, and services.
The Company’s license and cloud arrangements often contain multiple performance obligations, including maintenance, consulting, and training.
The transaction price is allocated to the separate performance obligations on a relative stand-alone selling price basis.
Variable fees within the transaction price will be estimated and recognized in revenue as the Company satisfies its performance obligations to the extent it is probable that a significant reversal of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable fee is resolved.
If the contract grants the client the option to acquire additional products or services, the Company assesses whether or not any discount on the products and services is in excess of levels normally available to similar clients and, if so, accounts for that discount as an additional performance obligation.
The Company has concluded that its software licenses are distinct performance obligations as the client can benefit from the software on its own.
Software license revenue is typically recognized at a point in time when control is transferred to the client, which is defined as the point in time when the client can use and benefit from the license.
The Company’s license arrangements generally contain multiple performance obligations, including consulting, training, and maintenance.
The Company utilizes the residual approach as license performance obligations are sold for a broad range of amounts (the selling price is highly variable) and a stand-alone selling price is not discernible from past transactions or other observable evidence.
Periodically, the Company evaluates whether the residual approach is appropriate for its license and cloud performance obligations when sold with other performance obligations.
As a result, if the stand­alone selling price analysis illustrates that the license and cloud performance obligations are no longer highly variable, the Company will utilize the relative allocation method for such arrangements.
The Company recognizes software license revenue when control is transferred, and the corresponding difference between the amount invoiced and recognized as revenue is recorded as unbilled receivables, as the payment of consideration is subject only to the passage of time.
Each of the performance obligations included in maintenance revenue is a stand-alone obligation that is recognized over the passage of the contractual term, which is typically one year.
The Company’s services revenue is comprised of consulting and training, including software license implementations, training, reimbursable expenses, and cloud which is derived from sales of the Company’s hosted Pega Platform and software application environments.
The Company estimates the stand-alone selling price for fixed price services based on the estimated hours versus actual hours in similar geographies and for similar contract sizes.
Revenue for fixed price services is recognized over time as the services are provided.
The stand-alone selling price of cloud sales of production environments is determined based on the residual approach when sold with services and is recognized over the term of the service.
The Company utilizes the residual approach as cloud performance obligations are sold for a broad range of amounts (the selling price is highly variable) and a stand-alone selling price is not discernible from past transactions or other observable evidence.
The stand-alone selling price for cloud sales of development and testing environments is developed using observable prices in similar transactions without multiple performance obligations and is recognized over time over the term of the service.
The amount of revenue recognized from performance obligations satisfied in prior periods was not material.
Transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations represents contracted revenue that has not yet been recognized.
Transaction price on remaining performance obligations was $291 million as of March 31, 2018, of which the Company expects to recognize $198.3 million prior to January 1, 2020.
For reporting periods ending prior to January 1, 2018, the date of initial adoption of ASC 606, the Company has elected the practical expedient and not compiled and disclosed the amount of the transaction price allocated to the remaining performance obligations.
As of March 31, 2018, the Company had, net of estimated forfeitures, $92.5 million of unrecognized stock-based compensation expense, related to all unvested restricted stock units (“RSUs”) and stock options, which was expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.3 years.


item2.txt
We develop, market, license, and support software applications for customer engagement and digital process automation, in addition to licensing our Pega Platform application development product for clients that wish to build and extend their own applications.
The decrease in total revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2018 was primarily due to a large term license arrangement recognized in revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2017 and a shift in client preferences to cloud arrangements.
Thus, we estimate stand-alone selling price for software licenses and cloud performance obligations using the residual approach, determined based on total transaction price minus the stand-alone selling price of other performance obligations promised in the contract.
“Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements” of this Quarterly Reporting on Form 10-Q for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
The decrease in perpetual license revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2018 was primarily due to a decrease in the value of perpetual arrangements executed in the three months ended March 31, 2018 driven primarily by a shift in client preferences to cloud arrangements.
The decrease in term license revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2018 was primarily due to a large term license arrangement recognized in revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2017 and a shift in client preferences to cloud arrangements.
The increase in cloud revenue was primarily due to the continued growth of our cloud client base driven by a shift in client preferences to cloud arrangements.
The decrease in total gross profit in the three months ended March 31, 2018 was primarily due to a large term license arrangement recognized in revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2017.
Additionally we have experienced a shift in client preferences to cloud arrangements, which are generally recognized in revenue over the term of the cloud contract, as compared to other arrangements, which are generally recognized in revenue on the contract effective date.
The increase in maintenance gross profit percent in the three months ended March 31, 2018 was driven by a $0.5 million decrease in client support expenses as we transferred client support resources to support our growing cloud business.
The increase in cloud gross profit percent in the three months ended March 31, 2018 was driven by cost efficiency gains as our cloud business continues to grow and scale, partially offset by a $0.5 million increase in client support expenses as we expanded our cloud client support function to sustain our growing cloud business.
The increase in the three months ended March 31, 2018 was primarily due to an increase in compensation and benefits of $11.6 million, driven by increased headcount and equity compensation, amortization of deferred commissions, increased spending on event marketing and digital advertising, and the expenses associated with assigning contract negotiation resources to drive efficiencies in the sales process in support of our long-term growth.
Research and development expenses include compensation, benefits, contracted services, and other headcount-related expenses associated with the creation and development of our products, as well as enhancements and design changes to existing products and the integration of acquired technologies.
The increase in the three months ended March 31, 2018 was primarily due to an increase in compensation and benefits of $4.6 million attributable to increased headcount, and the expansion of our application development team to support the continued development of our software.
The increase in the three months ended March 31, 2018 was primarily due to an increase in compensation and benefits of $1.1 million, attributable to equity compensation, and an increase of $1 million in legal fees.
The inclusion of excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation as a component of the provision for income taxes has increased the volatility of the effective tax rates in recent periods, and may continue to do so in future periods, as the amount of excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation awards varies depending on our future stock price in relation to the fair value of awards, the timing of RSU vestings, exercise behavior of our stock option holders, and the total value of future grants of stock-based compensation awards.
During the three months ended March 31, 2018, we purchased investments of $35.2 million and made investments of $2.1 million in property and equipment, partially offset by proceeds received from maturities of investments (including called marketable debt securities) of $6 million.
During the three months ended March 31, 2017, we purchased investments of $3.3 million, partially offset by proceeds received from maturities of investments (including called marketable debt securities) of $2.3 million.
(2)  During the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, instead of receiving cash from the equity holders, we withheld shares with a value of $11.2 million and $7.7 million for the exercise price of options.
During the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, we paid cash dividends of $2.3 million.


item3.txt
However, the operating expenses of our foreign operations are also primarily denominated in foreign currencies, which partially offset our foreign currency exposure.


