fls.txt
These statements include, but are not limited to, statements about our future financial performance and business plans, the adequacy of our liquidity and capital resources, the continued payment of quarterly dividends, and the timing of revenue recognition and are described more completely in Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
These risk factors could materially affect our business, financial condition, and future results and could cause our actual business and financial results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements made in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or elsewhere by management from time to time.


item1.txt
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, “Leases (Topic 842),” which requires lessees to record most leases on their balance sheets, recognizing a lease liability for the obligation to make lease payments and a right-of-use asset for the right to use the underlying asset for the lease term.
Perpetual licenses with extended payment terms and term licenses - Revenue from perpetual licenses with extended payment terms and term licenses is now recognized when control is transferred to the client, the point in time when the client can use and benefit from the license.
Unbilled receivables in the Company’s unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets increased significantly upon adoption due to the revenue from term licenses being recognized prior to amounts billed, or prepaid by, clients and perpetual licenses with extended payment terms.
Allocation of future credits and significant discounts - Perpetual or term licenses delivered are a separate performance obligation which now requires us to allocate any future credits and discounts to the performance obligations in the arrangement based upon their relative stand-alone selling prices.
Includes cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, income taxes receivable, other current assets, property and equipment, intangible assets, goodwill, and other long-term assets (as reflected in the consolidated balance sheets in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017).
Contract assets are amounts under client contracts where revenue recognized exceeds the amount billed to the client and the right to payment is subject to conditions other than the passage of time, such as the completion of a related performance obligation.
The change in deferred revenue in the six months ended June 30, 2018, was primarily due to new billings in advance of revenue recognition and $168.2 million of revenue recognized, excluding the impact of the netting of contract assets and deferred revenue, during the period that was included in deferred revenue at December 31, 2017.
Fair value is an exit price, representing the amount that would be received from the sale of an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants based on assumptions that market participants would use in pricing an asset or liability.
The Company’s investments in privately-held companies are classified within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy and are valued using model-based techniques, including option pricing models and discounted cash flow models.
If applicable, the Company will recognize transfers into and out of levels within the fair value hierarchy at the end of the reporting period in which the actual event or change in circumstance occurs.
During the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, the Company did not recognize any impairments of its assets recorded at fair value on a nonrecurring basis.
Services revenue is primarily derived from cloud revenue, which is sales of the Company’s hosted Pega Platform and software application environments and consulting revenue which is primarily related to new license implementations.
The Company’s license and cloud arrangements often contain multiple performance obligations, including maintenance, consulting, and training.
The transaction price is allocated to the separate performance obligations on a relative stand-alone selling price basis.
Variable fees within the transaction price are estimated and recognized in revenue as the Company satisfies each performance obligation to the extent it is probable that a significant reversal of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable fee is resolved.
If the contract grants the client the option to acquire additional products or services, the Company assesses whether or not any discount on the included products and services is in excess of levels normally available to similar clients and, if so, accounts for that discount as an additional performance obligation.
The Company has concluded that its software licenses are distinct performance obligations as the client can benefit from the software on its own.
Software license revenue is typically recognized at a point in time when control is transferred to the client, which is defined as the point in time when the client can use and benefit from the license.
The Company utilizes the residual approach as license performance obligations are sold for a broad range of amounts (the selling price is highly variable) and a stand-alone selling price is not discernible from past transactions or other observable evidence.
Periodically, the Company evaluates whether the residual approach is appropriate for its license and cloud performance obligations when sold with other performance obligations.
As a result, if the standalone selling price analysis illustrates that the license and cloud performance obligations are no longer highly variable, the Company will utilize the relative allocation method for such arrangements.
Term license fees are usually payable in advance on a monthly, quarterly, or annual basis over the term of the license agreement, which is typically three to five years and may be renewed for additional terms at the client’s option.
Technical support and software updates are considered distinct services but accounted for as a single performance obligation as they each constitute a series of distinct services that are substantially the same and have the same pattern of transfer to the client.
Software maintenance revenue is recognized over time on a straight-line basis over the contract period.
Each of the performance obligations included in maintenance are priced as a percentage of the selling price of the related software license, which is highly variable.
The Company determined the standalone selling price of each performance obligation included in maintenance based on this pricing relationship, which has remained constant within a narrow range, and observable data from standalone sales of maintenance, along with all other observable data.
The Company’s services revenue is comprised of consulting and training, including software license implementations, training, reimbursable expenses, and cloud which is derived from sales of the Company’s hosted Pega Platform and software application environments.
The Company estimates the stand-alone selling price for fixed price services based on the estimated hours versus actual hours in similar geographies and for similar contract sizes.
The stand-alone selling price of cloud sales of production environments is determined based on the residual approach when sold with services and is recognized over the term of the service.
The Company utilizes the residual approach as cloud performance obligations are sold for a broad range of amounts (the selling price is highly variable) and a stand-alone selling price is not discernible from past transactions or other observable evidence.
The stand-alone selling price for cloud sales of development and testing environments is developed using observable prices in similar transactions without multiple performance obligations and is recognized over time over the term of the service.
As of June 30, 2018, the Company had, net of estimated forfeitures, $79.7 million of unrecognized stock-based compensation expense, related to all unvested restricted stock units (“RSUs”) and stock options, which was expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.2 years.


item2.txt
Thus, we estimate stand-alone selling price for software licenses and cloud performance obligations using the residual approach, determined based on total transaction price minus the stand-alone selling price of other performance obligations promised in the contract.
The decrease in term license revenue in the six months ended June 30, 2018 was primarily due to $35.3 million in revenue recognized in the three months ended March 31, 2017 from a large term license renewal.
The increases in maintenance revenue were primarily due to the continued growth in the aggregate value of the installed base of our software and strong renewal rates significantly in excess of 90%.
The increases in consulting and training revenue were primarily due to higher billable hours driven by an increase in the number of projects during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018.
The increase in total gross profit in the three months ended June 30, 2018 was primarily due to a large term license recognized in revenue in the three months ended June 30, 2018.
The increases in maintenance gross profit percent in the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 were driven by decreases of $0.7 million and $1 million, respectively, in compensation and benefits due to decreased headcount and a decrease in client support expenses as we transferred resources to provide dedicated support to our growing cloud business.
The increases in cloud gross profit percent in the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 were driven by cost efficiency gains as our cloud business continues to grow and scale, partially offset by an increase in client support expenses as we expanded our cloud client support function to sustain our growing cloud business.
The decreases in consulting and training gross profit percent in the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 were driven primarily by lower utilization rates and the impact of our policy introduced late in the three months ended June 30, 2017 to offer our web-based training free of charge to users which reduced training revenue for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 by $0.9 million and $1.6 million, respectively.
Selling and marketing expenses include compensation, benefits, and other headcount-related expenses associated with our selling and marketing personnel as well as advertising, promotions, trade shows, seminars, and other programs.
The increases in the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 were primarily due to increases in compensation and benefits of $13.7 million and $25.4 million, increased employee travel and entertainment, and increased expenses related to the realignment of contract negotiation resources.
Research and development expenses include compensation, benefits, contracted services, and other headcount-related expenses associated with the creation and development of our products, as well as enhancements and design changes to existing products and the integration of acquired technologies.
The increases in the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 were primarily due to increases in compensation and benefits of $1 million and $5.5 million, respectively, attributable to increased headcount and the expansion of our application development team to support the continued development of our expanding suite of software.
The decrease in the three months ended June 30, 2018 was primarily due to a decrease in compensation and benefits of $1.6 million, due to decreased headcount reflecting the realignment of contract negotiation and product development resources to augment our selling and marketing and research development functions, respectively.
The increase in the six months ended June 30, 2018 was primarily due to an increase of $1.2 million in legal fees.
The increase in the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 was primarily due to the increased value of our annual periodic equity awards granted in March 2018 and 2017.
excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 of $11.4 million and $18.1 million were disproportionately greater relative to income before benefit from income taxes;  
This fluctuation may continue in future periods, as the amount of excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation awards varies depending on our future stock price in relation to the fair value of awards, the timing of RSU vestings, exercise behavior of our stock option holders, and the total value of future grants of stock-based compensation awards.
During the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, instead of receiving cash from the equity holders, we withheld shares with a value of $21.1 million and $20.7 million for the exercise price of options.
During the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, we paid cash dividends of $4.7 million and $4.6 million.


item3.txt
However, the operating expenses of our foreign operations are also primarily denominated in foreign currencies, which partially offset our foreign currency exposure.
We are primarily exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates associated with Australian dollar, Euro, and U.S. dollar denominated cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, unbilled receivables, and intercompany receivables and payables held by our U.K. subsidiary, a British pound functional entity.


part2.txt
ITEM 1A.


