The Company's sales do not represent a significant share of the industry's market for any class of its products.
These risks include, without limitation, requirements for power supplies in the rail industry, dependence on appropriations from the United States Government and the governments of foreign nations, program allocations, the potential of governmental termination of orders for convenience, and the general strength of the industry sectors in which our customers transact business.
In order to maintain a balanced business, we are continuing to place an emphasis on securing “build to print” opportunities, which will allow production work to go directly to the manufacturing floor, limiting the impact on our engineering staff.
New orders received in the first three months of fiscal year 2019 and 2018 were approximately $6.9 million.
The minimum of $33.7 million does not include any shipments, which may be made against orders subsequently received during the fiscal year ending June 30, 2019.
The estimate of the September 30, 2018 backlog to be shipped in fiscal year 2019 is subject to future events, which may cause the amount of the backlog actually shipped to differ from such estimate.
In addition to the backlog, the Company currently has outstanding opportunities representing in excess of $69.5 million in the aggregate as of October 31, 2018 for both repeat and new programs.
However, there can be no assurance that the Company will acquire any of the anticipated orders described above, many of which are subject to allocations of the United States defense spending and factors affecting the defense industry.
A significant portion of the Company’s business is the production of military and industrial electronic equipment for use by the U.S. and foreign governments and certain industrial customers.
Net sales to two significant customers represented 62.5% of the Company’s total sales for the three-month period ended September 30, 2018 and net sales to two significant customers represented 73.9% of the Company's total sales for the three-month period ended September 30, 2017.
We evaluate the products or services promised in each contract at inception to determine whether the contract should be accounted for as having one or more performance obligation.
We determine the transaction price for each contract based on the consideration we expect to receive for the products or services being provided under the contract.
Transaction prices on our contracts subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR) are typically based on estimated or actual costs plus a reasonable profit margin.
The provision for losses on contracts is included in other accrued expenses on the Company’s balance sheet.
The increase in net sales is primarily due to an increase in build to print sales offset, in part, by a decrease in power supply shipments.
Gross profit as a percentage of sales was 11.9% and 19.5%, for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.Item 5.Other Information31.1Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002