item1.txt
We develop and sell devices that use spintronics, a nanotechnology that relies on electron spin rather than electron charge to acquire, store, and transmit information.
The accompanying unaudited financial statements of NVE Corporation are prepared consistent with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States and in accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission rules and regulations.
We recognize revenue when we satisfy performance obligations by the transfer of control of products or services to our customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those products or services.
We recognize any such commissions as selling, general, and administrative expenses.
We recognize contract research and development revenue over a period of time as the performance obligation is satisfied over a period of time rather than a point in time.
Contracts have specifications unique to each customer and do not create an asset with an alternate use, and we have an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date.
Accounts receivable is recognized when we have transferred a good or service to a customer and our right to receive consideration is unconditional through the completion of our performance obligation.
A contract liability is recognized when we have been paid by a customer but have not yet satisfied the performance obligation by transferring goods or services.
Our performance obligations related to product sales and contract research and development contracts are satisfied in one year or less.
Unsatisfied performance obligations represent contracts with an original expected duration of one year or less.
As permitted under Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, we are using the practical expedient not to disclose the value of these unsatisfied performance obligations.
ASU 2018-13 modifies the disclosure requirements for fair value measurements by removing, modifying, or adding certain disclosures.
Early adoption is permitted for the removed disclosures and delayed adoption is permitted until fiscal 2021 for the new disclosures.
We adopted ASU 2018-13 early, effective the quarter ended  September 30, 2018.
The removed and modified disclosures were adopted on a retrospective basis and the new disclosures on a prospective basis.
The adoption did not have a significant effect on our financial statements.
Early adoption is permitted, and we adopted ASU 2018-02 in the quarter ended  June 30, 2018.
We adopted ASU 2016-15 retrospectively in the quarter ended  June 30, 2018.
The adoption did not have a significant impact on our financial statements.
ASU 2014-09 is based on the principle that revenue is recognized to depict the transfer of goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
The adoption did not have significant impact on our financial statements.
Corporate bonds with remaining maturities less than one year are classified as short-term, and those with remaining maturities greater than one year are classified as long-term.
We consider all highly-liquid investments with maturities of three months or less when purchased, including money market funds, to be cash equivalents.
Marketable securities as of  September 30, 2018 had remaining maturities between one and 55 months.
Level 1 – Financial instruments with quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 – Financial instruments with quoted prices in active markets for similar assets or liabilities.
Level 2 fair value measurements are determined using either prices for similar instruments or inputs that are either directly or indirectly observable, such as interest rates.
Money market funds are included on the balance sheets in “Cash and cash equivalents.” Corporate bonds are included on the balance sheets in “Marketable securities, short term” and “Marketable securities, long term.” We did not consider any of our available-for-sale securities to be impaired as of  September 30, 2018.
None of the securities were impaired at acquisition, and subsequent declines in fair value are not attributed to declines in credit quality.
The Repurchase Program  may be modified or discontinued at any time without notice.


