fls.txt



item1.txt
Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by U.S. GAAP to be included in full year financial statements.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments considered necessary for a fair statement of the results for the periods presented have been included and are of a normal recurring nature.
These interim financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2018 included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K.
The note receivable balance relates to a loan given to a third party and repayment is expected to occur in 12 months or less.
As of September 30, 2019, $176 thousand of the accrued product warranty liability was classified as current in "Accrued liabilities" in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and the remaining $45 thousand was classified as non-current in "Other liabilities".
We were not in compliance with one of our financial covenants of the TD Bank Credit Facility at September 30, 2019.
On November 6, 2019, we obtained a waiver from TD Bank for compliance with this financial covenant, which pertains to operating cash flow to total debt service (the “OCF”) at September 30, 2019 and amended the definition of interest expense to exclude fees paid on unused borrowings under the revolving credit line, which is used to calculate total debt service in the OCF.
Following the waiver, we had borrowings available under the TD Bank Credit Facility of $20 million.
We ended the third quarter of 2019 with $1.2 million in cash and cash equivalents, of which $0.2 million was held by our U.K. subsidiary, and no debt outstanding.


item2.txt
Our world-class products are designed from the ground up based on market and customer requirements and are sold under the BOHA!™, AccuDate™, Epic®, EPICENTRAL™, Ithaca®, and Printrex® brand names.
Through our TransAct Services Group (“TSG”), we provide a complete range of supplies and consumables used in the printing and scanning activities of customers in the restaurant and hospitality, banking, retail, casino and gaming, government and oil and gas exploration markets.
Through our webstore, www.transactsupplies.com, and our direct selling team, we address the demand for these products.
SaaS-based apps across 45 locations in the U.S. TransAct expects approximately 30 customer locations to go live with the BOHA!
Labeling SaaS-based app and TransAct Enterprise Management System (TEMS) over the next 12 months, with an additional 15 locations to follow over time.
Net sales for the third quarter of 2019 decreased $4.2 million, or 26%, from the same period in 2018.
The average selling price of our printers, terminals and other hardware increased 3% during the third quarter of 2019 compared to the third quarter of 2018 due primarily to a lower level of lottery printer sales and POS automation and banking printer sales, which sell at a lower price than our other products.
software recognized on a SaaS subscription basis, labels and other recurring revenue increased by 267%, including an over 250% increase in label sales and a ten-fold increase in software sales (though off of a low base in the third quarter of 2018) in the third quarter of 2019 compared to the third quarter of 2018.
Hardware sales increased by 2% in the third quarter of 2019 compared to the third quarter of 2018. solution sale to a casino operator located in the Asia-Pacific market.
solution, which includes hardware as well as recurring software subscription revenue, service and label sales.
The decrease in both domestic and international POS automation and banking product revenue for the third quarter of 2019 compared to the third quarter of 2018 was primarily driven by a 26% decrease in sales of our Ithaca® 9000 printer, largely to McDonald’s.
These decreases were partially offset by slightly higher revenue from recurring EPICENTRALTM annual software maintenance fees during the third quarter of 2019 compared to the third quarter of 2018.
The decrease in international sales of our casino and gaming products in the third quarter of 2019 compared to the third quarter of 2018 was due to a 20% decrease in sales of our thermal casino printers due primarily to lower sales to a large OEM in Europe.
The decrease was partially offset by 37% higher international sales of our off-premise gaming printers during the third quarter of 2019 compared to the third quarter of 2018, primarily to an OEM in Europe for sports betting, as well as stronger sales in Australia.
The decrease in domestic revenue from TSG for the third quarter of 2019 as compared to the prior year period was due primarily to lower sales of replacement parts including lower sales of lottery printer spare parts to IGT.


item3.txt



item4.txt
The term “disclosure controls and procedures,” as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act, means controls and other procedures of a company that are designed to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).
Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the company’s management, including its principal executive and principal financial officers, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Item 1A.
Information regarding risk factors appears under Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.


