Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 



Overview 



The discussion set forth below, as well as other portions of this Quarterly Report, contains statements concerning potential future events. Such forward-looking statements are based upon assumptions by management, as of the date of this Quarterly Report, including assumptions about risks and uncertainties faced by the Company. Readers can identify these forward-looking statements by their use of such verbs as expects, anticipates, believes or similar verbs or conjugations of such verbs. If any of the Company’s assumptions prove incorrect or should unanticipated circumstances arise, actual results could materially differ from those anticipated by such forward-looking statements. The differences could be caused by a number of factors or combination of factors including, but not limited to, those factors identified in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 29, 2018. This report has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC” or the “Commission”) in Washington, D.C. and can be obtained by contacting the SEC’s public reference operations or obtaining it through the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov. Readers are strongly encouraged to consider those factors when evaluating any forward-looking statement concerning the Company. The Company will not update any forward-looking statements in this Quarterly Report to reflect future events or developments. 



The information contained in this Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations should be read in conjunction with the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto included in this Form 10-Q and the audited financial statements and notes thereto in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 29, 2018. 



The Company is a leading worldwide provider of navigation, communications and information devices, most of which are enabled by Global Positioning System, or GPS, technology. We operate in five reportable segments, which serve the outdoor, fitness, marine, auto and aviation markets. The Company’s segments offer consumer products through its network of subsidiary distributors and independent dealers and distributors and some also maintain relationships with original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). However, the nature of products and types of customers for the five segments may vary significantly. As such, the segments are managed separately. 





Results of Operations 









The segment table located in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements sets forth the Company’s results of operations (in thousands) including net sales, gross profit, and operating income for each of the Company’s five segments during the periods shown. For each line item in the table, the total of the outdoor, fitness, marine, auto, and aviation segments’ amounts equals the amount in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income included in Item 1. 



As indicated in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, the methodology used to allocate certain selling, general, and administrative expenses was refined in the first quarter of 2019. The amounts presented below for the 13-weeks and 39-weeks ended September 29, 2018 are presented here as they were originally reported. 





Comparison of 13-Weeks ended September 28, 2019 and September 29, 2018  





Net Sales 





Net sales increased 15% for the 13-week period ended September 28, 2019 when compared to the year-ago quarter. The outdoor, fitness, marine, and aviation segments collectively increased by 24%, contributing 85% of total revenue. Outdoor was the largest portion of our revenue mix at 28% in the third quarter of 2019 compared to 26% in the third quarter of 2018. 



Total unit sales in the third quarter of 2019 increased to 3,659 when compared to total unit sales of 3,527 in the third quarter of 2018. 



Outdoor, fitness, marine, and aviation segment revenue increased 23%, 28%, 9%, and 28%, respectively, when compared to the year-ago quarter. The outdoor segment revenue increase was driven by sales growth in multiple product categories, led primarily by adventure watches. The fitness segment revenue increase was primarily driven by strong sales in wearables and sales from Tacx, a newly acquired group of subsidiaries that designs and manufactures indoor bike trainers. The current quarter marine segment revenue increase was driven by sales growth in multiple product categories, led primarily by chartplotters. The aviation segment revenue increase was driven by sales growth in both OEM and aftermarket categories. Auto segment revenue decreased 17% from the year-ago quarter, primarily due to lower OEM sales in the current quarter and the ongoing PND market contraction. 



Gross Profit 





Gross profit dollars in the third quarter of 2019 increased 18%, primarily due to growth in net sales along with a gross margin increase of 140 basis points compared to the year-ago quarter. Gross margin increased in the auto segment, was relatively flat in the outdoor and marine segments, and decreased in the fitness and aviation segments when compared to the year-ago quarter. 



The auto segment gross margin increase of 490 basis points was primarily attributable to lower license expense. A portion of license expense favorability in the auto segment is expected to continue for the remainder of the year. Gross margin remained relatively flat within the outdoor and marine segments. The fitness and aviation segment gross margin decreases were primarily attributable to product mix. 





Advertising Expense 





Advertising expense as a percent of revenue was relatively flat when compared to the year-ago quarter and increased 5% in absolute dollars. The total absolute dollar increase was primarily attributable to increased cooperative advertising in the outdoor, fitness, and marine segments, partially offset by decreased cooperative advertising in the auto and aviation segments. 



Selling, General and Administrative Expense 





Selling, general and administrative expense increased 9% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue compared to the year-ago quarter. The absolute dollar increase in the third quarter of 2019 was primarily attributable to personnel costs and expenses from recent acquisitions. The fitness segment decrease as a percent of revenue was primarily due to greater leverage of operating costs. 



As noted above and in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company refined its methodology to allocate certain selling, general and administrative expenses in the beginning of the 2019 fiscal year. The prior year amounts are presented here as originally reported. For comparative purposes, we estimate selling, general and administrative expenses for the third quarter of 2018 would have been approximately $4 million more for the aviation segment, approximately $2 million less for the marine segment, approximately $2 million less for the outdoor segment, and not significantly different for the fitness and auto segments. Selling, general and administrative expense as a percent of revenue also decreased in the outdoor and marine segments due to greater leverage of operating costs. 



Considering the refined allocation methodology noted above, we estimate selling, general and administrative expenses for the 52-weeks ended December 29, 2018 would have been approximately $18 million more for the aviation segment, approximately $11 million less for the marine segment, approximately $7 million less for the outdoor segment, and not significantly different for the fitness and auto segments. 



Research and Development Expense 







Research and development expense as a percent of revenue decreased 130 basis points when compared to the year-ago quarter and increased 7% in absolute dollars. The absolute dollar increase was primarily due to higher engineering personnel costs related to wearable and aviation product offerings and expenses resulting from recent acquisitions, partially offset by the capitalization of certain contractually reimbursable preproduction design and development personnel costs within the auto segment. Our research and development spending is focused on product development, improving existing software capabilities, and exploring new categories. 



Operating Income 





Operating income increased 33% in absolute dollars and 380 basis points as a percent of revenue when compared to the year-ago quarter. In the current quarter, the operating income growth in absolute dollars and as a percent of revenue was primarily attributable to revenue growth, improved gross margin, and greater leverage of operating expenses, as discussed above. 



Other Income (Expense)  







Foreign currency gains and losses for the Company are typically driven by movements in the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling in relation to the U.S. Dollar. The Taiwan Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin Corporation, the U.S. Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin (Europe) Ltd., and the Euro is the functional currency of most of our other European subsidiaries, although some transactions and balances are denominated in British Pounds. The majority of the Company’s consolidated foreign currency gain or loss is typically driven by the significant cash and marketable securities, receivables and payables held in a currency other than the functional currency at a given legal entity. Due to the relative size of the entities using a functional currency other than the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling, currency fluctuations related to these entities are not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s financial statements. 



The $16.3 million currency loss recognized in the third quarter of 2019 was primarily due to the U.S. Dollar strengthening against the Euro and British Pound Sterling, partially offset by the U.S. Dollar strengthening against the Taiwan Dollar, within the 13-weeks ended September 28, 2019. During this period, the U.S. Dollar strengthened 3.8% against the Euro and 3.2% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in losses of $9.8 million and $1.5 million, respectively, while the U.S. Dollar strengthened 0.3% against the Taiwan Dollar, resulting in a gain of $1.2 million. The remaining net currency loss of $6.2 million was related to the timing of transactions and impacts of other currencies, each of which was individually immaterial. 



The $6.9 million currency loss recognized in the third quarter of 2018 was primarily due to the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against the Euro and British Pound Sterling within the 13-weeks ended September 29, 2018. During this period, the U.S. Dollar strengthened 0.7% against the Euro and 1.3% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in losses of $2.7 million and $0.6 million, respectively, while the U.S. Dollar remained relatively flat against the Taiwan Dollar. The remaining net currency loss of $3.6 million was related to the timing of transactions and impacts of other currencies, each of which was individually immaterial. 





Income Tax Provision  



The Company recorded income tax expense of $29.9 million in the 13-week period ended September 28, 2019, compared to income tax expense of $17.1 million in the 13-week period ended September 29, 2018. The effective tax rate was 11.6% in the third quarter of 2019, compared to 8.5% in the third quarter of 2018. The 310 basis points increase to the third quarter of 2019 effective tax rate compared to the prior year quarter is primarily due to a decrease in uncertain tax position reserves released due to expiring statutes of limitations in the third quarter of 2019 compared to the third quarter of 2018. 



As discussed in Note 13 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, Switzerland corporate tax reform was approved by public referendum in May 2019 and enacted in October 2019. Accordingly, the Company expects to record an income tax benefit of approximately $20 to $220 million in the fourth quarter of 2019 due to an increase in certain Switzerland deferred tax assets resulting from enactment of Switzerland Federal and Schaffhausen cantonal tax reform. The Company is evaluating transitional measures in Switzerland tax law that may affect the overall increase in deferred tax assets as well as the impact of tax reform to its ongoing effective tax rate, the materiality of which is not yet known. 



Net Income  



As a result of the above, net income for the 13-weeks ended September 28, 2019 was $227.9 million compared to $184.2 million for the 13-week period ended September 28, 2018, an increase of $43.7 million. 



Comparison of 39-Weeks Ended September 28, 2019 and 39-Weeks Ended September 29, 2018 



Net Sales 





Net sales increased 10% for the 39-week period ended September 28, 2019 when compared to the year-ago period. The outdoor, fitness, marine, and aviation segments collectively increased by 16%, contributing 84% of total revenue. Fitness was the largest portion of our revenue mix at 25% in the first three quarters of 2019 compared to 24% in the first three quarters of 2018. 



Total unit sales in the first three quarters of 2019 increased to 10,678 when compared to the total unit sales of 10,266 in the first three quarters of 2018. 



Outdoor, fitness, marine, and aviation segment revenues increased 12%, 16%, 13%, and 22%, respectively, when compared to the year-ago period. The outdoor segment revenue increase was primarily driven by strong sales in adventure watches, golf and inReach product lines. Fitness segment revenue increases were primarily driven by strong sales in wearables and sales from newly acquired Tacx. Marine segment revenue increases were driven by sales growth in multiple product categories, led primarily by chartplotters and sonar products. The aviation segment revenue increase was driven by sales growth in both OEM and aftermarket categories. Auto segment revenue decreased 13% from the year-ago period, primarily due to the ongoing PND market contraction. 





Gross Profit 





Gross profit dollars in the 39-week period ended September 28, 2019 increased 11% while gross margin remained relatively flat compared to the year-ago period. Gross margin increased 430 basis points in the auto segment when compared to the year-ago period, primarily attributable to lower license expense and product mix. A portion of license expense favorability in the auto segment is expected to continue for the remainder of the year. Gross margin remained relatively flat within the outdoor, marine, and aviation segments. Gross margin decreased in the fitness segment primarily due to lower average selling prices and product mix. 



Advertising Expense 





Advertising expense increased 2% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue when compared to the year-ago period. Increased cooperative advertising in the outdoor, fitness, and marine segments and increased media advertising in the outdoor segment was partially offset by decreased cooperative advertising in the auto and aviation segments. 



Selling, General and Administrative Expense 





Selling, general and administrative expense increased 8% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue when compared to the year-ago period. The absolute dollar increase was primarily attributable to personnel costs, legal related costs, and expenses from recent acquisitions. The fitness segment increase as a percent of revenue was primarily due to expenses from newly acquired Tacx. 



As noted above and in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company refined its methodology to allocate certain selling, general and administrative expenses in the beginning of the 2019 fiscal year. The prior year amounts are presented here as originally reported. For comparative purposes, we estimate selling, general and administrative expenses for the first three quarters of 2018 would have been approximately $13 million more for the aviation segment, approximately $10 million less for the marine segment, approximately $3 million less for the outdoor segment, and not significantly different for the fitness and auto segments. Selling, general and administrative expense as a percent of revenue also decreased in marine due to greater leverage of operating costs. 





Considering the refined allocation methodology noted above, we estimate selling, general and administrative expenses for the 52-weeks ended December 29, 2018 would have been approximately $18 million more for the aviation segment, approximately $11 million less for the marine segment, approximately $7 million less for the outdoor segment, and not significantly different for the fitness and auto segments. 



Research and Development Expense 





Research and development expense as a percent of revenue was relatively flat when compared to the year-ago period and increased 5% in absolute dollars. The absolute dollar increase in research and development expenses when compared with the year-ago period was primarily due to engineering personnel costs related to our wearable and aviation product offerings and expenses resulting from recent acquisitions, partially offset by the capitalization of certain contractually reimbursable preproduction design and development personnel costs within the auto segment. Our research and development spending is focused on product development, improving existing software capabilities, and exploring new categories. 



Operating Income 





Operating income increased 20% in absolute dollars and increased 220 basis points as a percent of revenue when compared to the year-ago period. The growth in operating income on an absolute dollar basis and as a percent of revenue was the result of revenue growth, improved gross margin, and greater leverage of operating expenses, as discussed above. 



Other Income (Expense)  









The $12.6 million currency loss recognized in the first three quarters of 2019 was primarily due to the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against most other currencies, partially offset by the U.S. Dollar strengthening against the Taiwan Dollar within the 39-weeks ended September 28, 2019. During this period, the U.S. Dollar strengthened 1.5% against the Taiwan Dollar, resulting in a gain of $8.6 million. This was more than offset by the U.S. Dollar strengthening 4.4% against the Euro and 3.3% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in losses of $13.9 million and $0.9 million, respectively, and additional net currency losses of $6.4 million related to the timing of transactions and impacts of other currencies, each of which was individually immaterial. 



The $3.4 million currency loss recognized in the first three quarters of 2018 was primarily due to the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against most other currencies, partially offset by the U.S. Dollar strengthening against the Taiwan Dollar within the 39-weeks ended September 29, 2018. During this period, the U.S. Dollar strengthened 2.7% against the Taiwan Dollar, resulting in a gain of $13.6 million. This was more than offset by the U.S. Dollar strengthening 3.2% against the Euro and 3.6% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in losses of $7.7 million and $0.6 million, respectively, and additional net currency losses of $8.7 million related to the timing of transactions and impacts of other currencies, each of which was individually immaterial. 



Income Tax Provision  



The Company recorded income tax expense of $108.1 million in the first three quarters of 2019, compared to income tax expense of $87.4 million in the first three quarters of 2018. The effective tax rate was 15.4% in the first three quarters of 2019, compared to 14.8% in the first three quarters of 2018. 



As discussed in Note 13 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, Switzerland corporate tax reform was approved by public referendum in May 2019 and enacted in October 2019. Accordingly, the Company expects to record an income tax benefit of approximately $20 to $220 million in the fourth quarter of 2019 due to an increase in certain Switzerland deferred tax assets resulting from enactment of Switzerland Federal and Schaffhausen cantonal tax reform. The Company is evaluating transitional measures in Switzerland tax law that may affect the overall increase in deferred tax assets as well as the impact of tax reform to its ongoing effective tax rate, the materiality of which is not yet known. 



Net Income 



As a result of the above, net income for the 39-week period ended September 28, 2019 was $591.7 million compared to $503.9 million for the 39-week period ended September 29, 2018, an increase of $87.8 million. 



Liquidity and Capital Resources 



As of September 28, 2019, we had approximately $2.5 billion of cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities. We primarily use cash flow from operations, and expect that future cash requirements may be used, to fund our capital expenditures, support our working capital requirements, pay dividends, and fund strategic acquisitions. We believe that our existing cash balances and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our long-term projected capital expenditures, working capital and other cash requirements. 



It is management’s goal to invest the on-hand cash in accordance with the investment policy, which has been approved by the Company’s Board of Directors. The investment policy’s primary purpose is to preserve capital, maintain an acceptable degree of liquidity, and maximize yield within the constraint of low credit risk. Garmin’s average interest rate returns on cash and investments during the first three quarters of 2019 and 2018 were approximately 2.0% and 1.8%, respectively. The fair value of our securities varies from period to period due to changes in interest rates, in the performance of the underlying collateral and in the credit performance of the underlying issuer, among other factors. See Note 8 for additional information regarding marketable securities. 



Operating Activities 





The $237.6 million decrease in cash provided by operating activities during the first three quarters of 2019 compared to the first three quarters of 2018 was primarily due to the increase in cash used in working capital of $310.6 million (which included a decrease of $98.0 million in net receipts of accounts receivable, a net increase of $126.7 million in cash paid for inventory associated primarily with the Company’s effort to increase days of supply to support our increasingly diversified product lines, and a net increase of $85.9 million in cash used in other activities primarily driven by payments associated with an amendment to a license agreement) and income taxes payable of $34.5 million. These decreases were partially offset by the year over year increase in net income and other non-cash adjustments of $107.5 million. 





Investing Activities  





The $129.0 million increase in cash used in investing activities during the first three quarters of 2019 compared to the first three quarters of 2018 was primarily due to increased cash payments for acquisitions of $246.1 million, partially offset by decreased net purchases of marketable securities of $85.6 million and cash payments for net purchases of property and equipment of $30.4 million. 



Financing Activities 





The $20.4 million increase in cash used in financing activities during the first three quarters of 2019 compared to the first three quarters of 2018 was primarily due to an increase in dividend payments of $12.8 million and $7.6 million increase in treasury stock net purchases related to equity awards. 



Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 



We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements. 



Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 



General 



Garmin’s discussion and analysis of its financial condition and results of operations are based upon Garmin’s Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The presentation of these financial statements requires Garmin to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on-going basis, Garmin evaluates its estimates, including those related to bad debts, inventories, investments, intangible assets, income taxes, warranty obligations, contingencies, customer sales programs and incentives, product returns, relative standalone selling prices, and progress toward completion of performance obligations in certain contracts with customers. Garmin bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. 



For a description of the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, refer to Note 2, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 and “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” in Part II, Item 7 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2018. There were no material changes to the Company’s critical accounting policies and estimates in the 13-week and 39-week periods ended September 28, 2019, other than those discussed in Note 1, “Accounting Policies”. 





Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds 



Not applicable 



