Resources will be expended in researching potential acquisitions and investments that might not be consummated. 
In May 2017, we sold our Real-Time business consisting of real-time Linux operating system versions, development and performance optimization tools, simulation software and other system software combined, in many cases, with computer platforms and services. These real-time products were sold to a wide variety of companies seeking high performance, real-time computer solutions in the defense, aerospace, financial and automotive markets around the world. 
On December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our content delivery and storage business (the “Content Delivery business”) and other related assets to Vecima Networks, Inc. (“Vecima”) pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of October 13, 2017, between the Company and Vecima. Substantially all liabilities associated with the Content Delivery business were assigned to Vecima as part of the transaction. The Content Delivery business provided advanced applications focused on storing, protecting, transforming, and delivering high value media assets and served industries and customers that demand uncompromising performance, reliability and flexibility to gain a competitive edge, drive meaningful growth and confidently deliver best-in-class solutions that enrich the lives of millions of people around the world every day. Content delivery solutions consisted of software, hardware and services for intelligently streaming video content to a variety of consumer devices and storing and managing content in the network. These streaming video and storage products and services are deployed by service providers to support consumer-facing video applications including live broadcast video, video-on-demand and time-shifted video services such as cloud-based digital video recording. In fiscal year 2016, the Company introduced Aquari™ Storage, a unified scale-out storage solutions product that is ideally suited for a wide range of enterprise IT and video applications that require advanced performance, very large storage capacities, and a high degree of reliability. 
For both the three and six months ended December 31, 2017, the domestic tax expense is lower than the prior year primarily due to the favorable impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (enacted on December 22, 2017) on the realizability of our alternative minimum tax credits and lower domestic income as compared to the same periods from the prior year. 
We will be unable to compete with the Content Delivery business or the Real-Time business for a period of three years after the date of the closing of the sale of each respective business. 
 ·own, manage, operate, assist, invest in or acquire any person or entity that competes with the Content Delivery business or the Real-Time business (except for ownership of 5% or less of the outstanding securities of a publicly traded entity). 
When evaluating the desirability of effecting a business combination with a prospective target business, our ability to assess the target business’s management may be limited due to a lack of time, resources or information. Our assessment of the capabilities of the target’s management, therefore, may prove to be incorrect and such management may lack the skills, qualifications or abilities we suspected. Should the target’s management not possess the skills, qualifications or abilities necessary to manage a public company, the operations and profitability of the post-combination business may be negatively impacted. 
We may have a limited ability to assess the management of a prospective target business and, as a result, may effect a business combination with a target business whose management may not have the skills, qualifications or abilities to manage a public company. 
We may attempt to complete business combinations with private companies about which little information is available, which may result in a business combination with a company that is not as profitable as we suspected, if at all.  
We contributed $4 and $3 to our German defined benefit pension plans for the three months ending December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, and $7 for each of the six months ending December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. We expect to make additional, similar, quarterly contributions during the remaining quarters of our fiscal year 2018. In May 2017, we sold our Real-Time business to the RT Purchaser. The Real-Time business provided real-time Linux operating system variants, development and performance optimization tools, simulation software and other system software combined, in many cases, with computer platforms and services. Prior to the sale, we sold our Real-Time business products to a wide variety of companies seeking high performance, real-time computer solutions in the defense, aerospace, financial and automotive markets around the world. 
Loss from Continuing Operations. Our loss from continuing operations for the three months ended December 31, 2017 was $2.8 million, or $0.30 loss per basic and diluted share, compared to a net loss for the three months ended December 31, 2016 of $1.5 million, or $0.16 loss per basic and diluted share. 
General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses were $3.9 million for the three months ended December 31, 2017, an increase of $2.4 million, or 160.7%, from $1.5 million for the prior year period. This increase was primarily due to (1) $1.8 million in share-based compensation expenses resulting from the acceleration of vesting of restricted share awards due to the sale of our Content Delivery business on December 31, 2017 (2) $0.9 million in severance related to our former CEO and another employee, and (3) $0.5 million in bonuses related to the completion of the sale of our Content Delivery business. These cost increases were partially offset by $0.4 million lower legal fees related to prior year share-holder activism activity and $0.2 million of prior year strategic costs, as well as $0.2 million less in salaries wages and benefits resulting from efforts to reduce our operating costs. Following the close of the Content Delivery business during the three months ended December 31, 2017, which generated the aforementioned one-time transaction costs, we anticipate our operating expenses to be significantly lower in remaining quarters of our fiscal year 2018. We have reduced our staff to minimal levels while we look for strategic investment opportunities. We may make acquisitions where we do not own all or a majority of the target enterprise. 
Resources will be expended in researching potential acquisitions and investments that might not be consummated. 
We will be unable to compete with the Content Delivery business or the Real-Time business for a period of three years after the date of the closing of the sale of each respective business. 
 ·own, manage, operate, assist, invest in or acquire any person or entity that competes with the Content Delivery business or the Real-Time business (except for ownership of 5% or less of the outstanding securities of a publicly traded entity). 