In May 2017, we sold our Real-Time business consisting of real-time Linux operating system versions, development and performance optimization tools, simulation software and other system software combined, in many cases, with computer platforms and services. These real-time products were sold to a wide variety of companies seeking high performance, real-time computer solutions in the defense, aerospace, financial and automotive markets around the world. 
We may be limited in the types of acquisitions that we can pursue in order to preserve use of our NOLs. 
We are not presently involved in any material litigation. However, we are, from time to time, party to various routine legal proceedings arising out of our business. 
On December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our content delivery and storage business (the “Content Delivery business”) and other related assets to Vecima Networks, Inc. (“Vecima”) pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of October 13, 2017, between the Company and Vecima. Substantially all liabilities associated with the Content Delivery business were assigned to Vecima as part of the transaction. The Content Delivery business provided advanced applications focused on storing, protecting, transforming, and delivering high value media. 
In fiscal year 2018, following the sale of the Content Delivery business, we began developing a real estate operation initially through, among other things, making a number of commercial loans secured by real property. Based on the success of these activities, including the yield characteristics of these loans, and management’s experience in the real estate area, we created Recur Holdings LLC, a Delaware limited liability company wholly owned by the Company, during the first quarter of our fiscal year 2019. Through Recur Holdings LLC, we conduct, hold and manage our existing and future real estate operations. 
We also had a $1,400 deposit held by an escrow agent as of June 30, 2018 for a mortgage loan that was consummated subsequent to our June 30, 2018 fiscal year end. 
During the six months ended December 31, 2018, we provided a $2,000 cash advance to an aviation business to fund the deposit required for the recipient’s aircraft purchases for up to six months, in exchange for paying us an upfront fee and a guaranty of the full repayment obligation from the principal of the third-party business. The fee is earned over the six-month advance period and is reported as part of merchant cash advance income within the statement of operations. Each quarter, we review the carrying value of this cash advance, and determine if an impairment reserve is necessary. As of December 31, 2018, our advance receivable was not impaired. 
We participate in the MCA industry, which presents a number of unique risks. 
In December 2018, we acquired certain advance assets from an MCA originator and funder that is a leader in the MCA sector. An MCA funder provides small businesses with cash advances in return for the purchase of an amount of the small business’s future receipts. This type of transaction is not characterized or structured as a loan. Small businesses typically seek these advances for working capital purposes to finance their purchase of inventory, equipment, or to otherwise address immediate business needs. This business presents a number of unique risks, including the illiquidity of the cash advances; our critical reliance on certain individuals to operate the business; collection and cash advance repayment issues and challenges given that the MCAs are typically unsecured; and sensitivity to general economic conditions. At this time, we do not expect a significant increase in expenses for our operations as our management team believes it can manage the business without adding significant staffing resources. 
At this time, we do not expect a significant increase in expenses for our operations as our management team believes it can manage the business without adding significant staffing resources. 
 ·a $0.7 million decrease in bonuses due primarily to the non-recurring bonuses paid in the prior year period for the completion of the sale of our Content Delivery business; and  
 ·a $0.2 million decrease in Board fees. In the first quarter of our prior fiscal year we incurred fees attributable to the resignation of three of our independent directors that did not recur in the current year period. Additionally, in the first quarter of the prior fiscal year we reduced certain recurring Board fees for our remaining Board members.  
 ·potential liquidation of the Company pursuant to an organized plan of liquidation.  
 ·a $0.8 million decrease in bonuses due primarily to the non-recurring bonuses paid in the prior year period for the completion of the sale of our Content Delivery business, and secondarily for annual incentive plan bonuses for operating results for the first half of the prior fiscal year;  
Interest Income on Commercial Loans. We created Recur Holdings LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, during the first quarter of our fiscal year 2019. Through Recur Holdings LLC we conduct, hold and manage our existing and future real estate operations. During the three months ended December 31, 2018, we earned $0.2 million of interest income on seven mortgage and other commercial loans with a weighted average annualized yield of 11.0%. We may be limited in the types of acquisitions that we can pursue in order to preserve use of our NOLs. 
We are not presently involved in any material litigation. However, we are, from time to time, party to various routine legal proceedings arising out of our business. 