We may be limited in the types of acquisitions that we can pursue in order to preserve use of our NOLs. 
 ·successfully evaluate and continue to modify the MCA business under the relevant regulatory scheme. 
We are not presently involved in any material litigation. However, we are, from time to time, party to various routine legal proceedings arising out of our business. 
During the three months and nine months ended March 31, 2019, we received $8 and $581, respectively, of proceeds from prior utilization of our state tax credits. As of March 31, 2019, we had $94 remaining research and development tax credits available for future use. 
The amounts of LMCS’s revenue and earnings included in the Company's consolidated statement of operations for the nine months ended March 31, 2019, and the revenue and earnings of the combined entity had the acquisition date been July 1, 2017, are as follows. 
On December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our content delivery and storage business (the “Content Delivery business”) and other related assets to Vecima Networks, Inc. (“Vecima”) pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of October 13, 2017, between the Company and Vecima. Substantially all liabilities associated with the Content Delivery business were assigned to Vecima as part of the transaction. The Content Delivery business provided advanced applications focused on storing, protecting, transforming, and delivering high value media. 
On February 13, 2019, through our newly formed subsidiary, LM Capital Solutions, LLC (“LMCS”), we closed on a purchase agreement (the “Purchase Agreement”) to acquire the operating assets of LuxeMark Capital, LLC (“LuxeMark”). LMCS operates through its syndication network to facilitate merchant cash advance (“MCA”) funding by connecting a network of MCA originators (sometimes referred to herein as “funders”) with syndicate participants who provide those originators with additional capital by purchasing participation interests in funded MCAs. In addition, LMCS provides reporting and other administrative services to its syndication network. The Company holds an 80% interest in LMCS, with the remaining 20% held by LuxeMark. LMCS will do business as “LuxeMark Capital” with daily operations led by the three LuxeMark principals. Through LMCS, we (i) continue to operate the LuxeMark syndication network by sourcing syndication funding for MCA originators and providing reporting and other administrative services in exchange for a syndication fee, (ii) directly purchase participation interests from MCA originators for LMCS’ own MCA portfolio and (iii) provide loans to MCA originators to fund the MCAs themselves, which generates interest income and syndication fee income from servicing those MCAs. 
During the third quarter of our fiscal year 2019, we originated a commercial loan of $2,000 to an MCA originator. The commercial loan matures on February 28, 2021. Interest is charged at a rate of 17% per annum on the outstanding balance of the commercial loan. 
During the first quarter of our fiscal year 2019 we created Recur Holdings LLC (“Recur Holdings”), a Delaware limited liability company wholly owned by the Company. Through Recur Holdings we conduct, hold and manage our existing and future real estate operations. Sales and Marketing Expenses. During the third quarter of our fiscal year 2019, we began incurring sales and marketing expenses attributable to new business development resources that are focused on augmenting our current businesses and identifying potential new businesses. We incurred $0.1 million of these business development costs during the three months ended March 31, 2019, which are reported as part of our corporate operating expenses. Additionally, the former LuxeMark principals who now lead the LMCS daily operations following the closing of our LuxeMark acquisition are predominantly focused on generating incremental syndication fees and other MCA income for our MCA operations segment. As a result, our MCA operations segment incurred $0.1 million of sales and marketing expenses during the latter half of the third fiscal quarter of our fiscal year 2019. We anticipate our sales and marketing expenses will increase during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year 2019, when we will incur a full quarter of sales and marketing expenses from our MCA operations segment. 
Sales and Marketing Expenses. During the third quarter of our fiscal year 2019, we began incurring sales and marketing expenses attributable to new business development resources that are focused on augmenting our current businesses and identifying potential new businesses. We incurred $0.1 million of these business development costs during the nine months ended March 31, 2019, which are reported as part of our corporate operating expenses. Additionally, the former LuxeMark principals who now lead the LMCS daily operations following closing of our LuxeMark acquisition are predominantly focused on generating incremental syndication fees and other MCA income for our MCA operations segment. As a result, our MCA operations segment incurred $0.1 million of sales and marketing expenses during the latter half of the third fiscal quarter of our fiscal year 2019. We anticipate our sales and marketing expenses will increase during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year 2019, when we will incur a full quarter of sales and marketing expenses from our MCA operations segment. 
 ·a $0.1 million decrease in insurance expenses resulting from a reduction of operating complexity, and 
We generated $0.5 million and used $7.6 million of cash for operating activities during the nine months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Operating cash generated during the nine months ended March 31, 2019 was primarily attributable to cash generated by our operations and investments exceeding our operating costs. Operating cash flows during the nine months ending March 31, 2018 were primarily attributable to the timing of payments made against our accounts payable to settle the previous period’s transaction costs related to the sale of our Real-Time business in our fiscal year 2017, inventory purchases and accrued compensation, coupled with losses from continuing operations. 
References herein to the “current year period” and the “prior year period” refer to the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. 
Partially offsetting these decreases in expenses, we incurred $0.3 million of incremental legal and accounting fees in the nine months ended March 31, 2019 in connection with the consummation of the LuxeMark transaction. We may be limited in the types of acquisitions that we can pursue in order to preserve use of our NOLs. 
 ·successfully evaluate and continue to modify the MCA business under the relevant regulatory scheme. 
We are not presently involved in any material litigation. However, we are, from time to time, party to various routine legal proceedings arising out of our business. 
An increase in merchant defaults may reduce our overall profitability and historical merchant default rates may not be indicative of future results. 