In May 2017, we sold our Real-Time business consisting of real-time Linux operating system versions, development and performance optimization tools, simulation software and other system software combined, in many cases, with computer platforms and services. These real-time products were sold to a wide variety of companies seeking high performance, real-time computer solutions in the defense, aerospace, financial and automotive markets around the world. 
On December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our content delivery and storage business (the “Content Delivery business”) and other related assets to Vecima Networks, Inc. (“Vecima”) pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of October 13, 2017, between the Company and Vecima. Substantially all liabilities associated with the Content Delivery business were assigned to Vecima as part of the transaction. The Content Delivery business provided advanced applications focused on storing, protecting, transforming, and delivering high value media. The Content Delivery business consisted of (i) software, hardware and services for intelligently streaming video content to a variety of consumer devices and storing and managing content in the network and (ii) Aquari™ Storage, a unified scale-out storage solutions product that is ideally suited for a wide range of enterprise IT and video applications that require advanced performance, very large storage capacities, and a high degree of reliability. 
There can be no assurance that we will complete the acquisition of an 80% interest in LuxeMark that we have under a non-binding letter of intent. 
In fiscal year 2018, following the sale of the Content Delivery business, we began developing a real estate operation initially through, among other things, making a number of commercial loans secured by real property. Based on the success of these activities, including the yield characteristics of these loans, and management’s experience in the real estate area, we created Recur Holdings LLC, a Delaware limited liability company wholly owned by the Company, during the first quarter of our fiscal year 2019. Through Recur Holdings LLC, we conduct, hold and manage our existing and future real estate operations. 
During the three months ended September 30, 2018, we provided a $2,000 cash advance to an aviation business to fund the deposit required for the recipient’s aircraft purchases for up to six months, in exchange for paying us an upfront fee and a guaranty of the full repayment obligation from the principal of the third-party business. The fee is earned over the six-month advance period and is reported as part of other interest income within the statement of operations. Each quarter, we review the carrying value of this cash advance, and determine if an impairment reserve is necessary. As of September 30, 2018, our advance receivable was not impaired. 
There can be no assurance that we will complete the acquisition of an 80% interest in LuxeMark that we have under a non-binding letter of intent under the terms set forth in the letter of intent, or at all, because the letter of intent is not binding on us or on LuxeMark. Our acquisition of such interest is subject to us negotiating and executing with LuxeMark a mutually acceptable definitive and binding purchase agreement with respect to the business, which we expect will contain a number of conditions to closing the acquisition, including (i) our completion of satisfactory due diligence with respect to LuxeMark’s business, and (ii) satisfaction of customary closing conditions and, dependent on the results of due diligence and negotiation of the definitive documents between the parties, may require material modifications to the terms set forth in the letter of intent. There can be no assurance that LuxeMark will be willing to proceed with a transaction, that we will be able to negotiate and execute a satisfactory definitive purchase agreement with LuxeMark, that our due diligence will be satisfactory, or that the conditions to closing will be satisfied. 
As of June 30, 2018, we had state NOLs of $33,240. The state NOLs expire according to the rules of each state and expiration will occur between fiscal year 2019 and fiscal year 2037. 
During the three months ended September 30, 2018 we received $173 of proceeds from prior utilization of our State tax credits. Subsequent to the September 30, 2018 and prior to the filing date of this Form 10Q, we received an additional $376 of proceeds from prior utilization of our State tax credits. 
 1.Overview of Business and Basis of Presentation At this time, we do not expect a significant increase in expenses for our real estate operations as our management team has prior experience in this sector and believes it can manage the business without adding significant staffing resources. 
 ·a $0.3 million decrease in legal and accounting fees. Prior period fees were higher as a result of incremental services related to evaluation of strategic options and efforts to close the sale of the Content Delivery business; 
We used $0.1 million and $3.5 million of cash for operating activities during the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Operating cash usage during the three months ended September 30, 2018 was primarily attributable to operating costs during the period exceeding cash generating income, as approximately $0.5 million of our income for the period was from non-cash accretion and payment-in-kind interest. Operating cash flows during the three months ending September 30, 2017 were primarily attributable to the timing of payments made against our accounts payable to settle the previous quarter’s transaction costs related to the sale of our Real-Time business, inventory purchases and accrued compensation. 
 ·a $0.2 million decrease in Board fees. In the first quarter of our prior fiscal year we incurred fees attributable to the resignation of three of our independent directors that did not recur in the current year period. Additionally, in the second quarter of the prior fiscal year we reduced recurring Board fees for our remaining Board members; and 
During the three months ended September 30, 2018, we originated $1.8 million of short-term mortgage loans through our new real estate operating subsidiary, Recur Holdings LLC, of which $1.4 million was on deposit with an escrow agent at the end of the prior fiscal year. Additionally, we provided a $2.0 million cash advance to an aviation business to fund the deposit required for the recipient’s aircraft purchases for up to six months, in exchange for paying us an upfront fee. Our remaining investing activities consisted of $1.6 million in purchases and $6.2 million in maturities or sales of debt and equity securities for the purpose of funding our operating expenses as we continue to evolve our real estate operating business and actively search for additional operating businesses to acquire. 
 ·potential liquidation of the Company pursuant to an organized plan of liquidation. 
References herein to the “current year period” and the “prior year period” refer to the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. We are not presently involved in any material litigation. However, we are, from time to time, party to various routine legal proceedings arising out of our business. 
There can be no assurance that we will complete the acquisition of an 80% interest in LuxeMark that we have under a non-binding letter of intent. 