fls.txt
The foregoing list should not be construed as exhaustive, and the Company disclaims any obligation subsequently to revise any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements or to reflect the occurrence of anticipated or unanticipated events.


item1.txt



item2.txt
Successful conversion of engineering program backlog into sales is largely dependent on the execution and completion of our engineering design efforts.
However, there can be no assurance that the Company will acquire any of the anticipated orders described above, many of which are subject to allocations of the United States defense spending and factors affecting the defense industry.
A significant portion of the Company’s business is the production of military and industrial electronic equipment for use by the U.S. and foreign governments and certain industrial customers.
As part of our strategy, we adjust our pricing in order to achieve a balance which enables us both to retain repeat programs while being more competitive in bidding on new programs.
Contingent liabilities on outstanding standby letters of credit agreements aggregated to zero at December 31, 2018 and 2017.
The increase for the six months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to the same period in 2017 relates primarily to the increases described for the three month period, however, for the six-month period ended December 31, 2018, the increases were offset, in part, by a reduction in travel, and incurred marketing costs.
These risks include, without limitation, requirements for power supplies in the rail industry, dependence on appropriations from the United States Government and the governments of foreign nations, program allocations, the potential of governmental termination of orders for convenience, and the general strength of the industry sectors in which our customers transact business.
The increase in cash used in operating activities compared to the prior year primarily relates to a decrease in net income and income tax payable and the increase in inventories attributed to the sales volume and backlog increases offset, in part, by a decrease in prepaid expenses and other current assets, the collection of trade receivables and the increase in accounts payable.
In order to maintain a balanced business, we are continuing to place an emphasis on securing “build to print” opportunities, which will allow production work to go directly to the manufacturing floor, limiting the impact on our engineering staff.
The costs attributed to units delivered under contracts are based on the estimated average cost of all units expected to be produced.
The effective tax rate in fiscal 2019 is less than the statutory tax rate mainly due to the benefit derived from the ESOP dividends paid on allocated shares and for the tax benefit received in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 from the exercise of stock options.
 Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
Successful conversion of engineering program backlog into sales is largely dependent on the execution and completion of our engineering design efforts.
We determine the transaction price for each contract based on the consideration we expect to receive for the products or services being provided under the contract.
It is presently anticipated that a minimum of $24.4 million of orders comprising the December 31, 2018 backlog will be filled during the fiscal year ending June 30, 2019.
This increase in spending reduced the gross profit percentage by 7.2% and 8.0% for the three and six month periods, respectively.
Under existing authorizations from the Company's Board of Directors, as of December 31, 2018, management is authorized to purchase an additional $876,297 of Company stock.
Significant judgment is required in determining performance obligations.
The Company currently believes that the cash flow generated from operations and when necessary, from cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet its long-term funding requirements for the foreseeable future.
Engineering programs in both the funded and unfunded portions of the current backlog aggregate $6.7 million.
The increase for the three months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to the same period in 2017 relates primarily to the increase in employee compensation costs associated with added program management personnel supporting the Company’s sales backlog, professional services, and other miscellaneous expenses.
It is presently anticipated that a minimum of $24.4 million of orders comprising the December 31, 2018 backlog will be filled during the fiscal year ending June 30, 2019.
The increase for the three months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to the same period in 2017 relates primarily to the increase in employee compensation costs associated with added program management personnel supporting the Company’s sales backlog, professional services, and other miscellaneous expenses.
Engineering programs in both the funded and unfunded portions of the current backlog aggregate $6.7 million.


item3.txt
 Item 3.Defaults Upon Senior Securities


item4.txt
 Item 5.Other Information
 Item 6.Exhibits


part2.txt
 Item 4.Mine Safety Disclosures
 Item 4.Mine Safety Disclosures


