Interest income is a function of the level of investments and investment strategies which generally tend to be conservative.
This increase in spending reduced the gross profit percentage in the current quarter by 8.6%.
This trend will continue through fiscal year 2019.
The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses increased primarily due to employee compensation costs resulting from an increase in headcount.
The costs attributed to units delivered under contracts are based on the estimated average cost of all units expected to be produced.
We determine the transaction price for each contract based on the consideration we expect to receive for the products or services being provided under the contract.
Our business is not seasonal.
We recognize revenue using the output method based on the appraisal of results achieved and milestones reached or units delivered based on contractual shipment terms, typically shipping point.
During the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, the Company expended $611,995 and $28,758, respectively, for plant improvements and new equipment.
This increase in spending reduced the gross profit percentage in the current quarter by 8.6%.
Gross profit as a percentage of sales was 11.9% and 19.5%, for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
We account for a contract after it has been approved by all parties to the arrangement, the rights of the parties are identified, payment terms are identified, the contract has commercial substance, and collectability of consideration is probable.
Gross profit for the three months ended September 30, 2018 decreased due to a decline in the gross profit percentage due to expenditures incurred on a specific engineering design contract.
The increase for the three months ended September 30, 2018 as compared to the same period in 2017 relates primarily to the increase in employee compensation costs associated with added program management personnel supporting the Company’s sales backlog.
These risks include, without limitation, requirements for power supplies in the rail industry, dependence on appropriations from the United States Government and the governments of foreign nations, program allocations, the potential of governmental termination of orders for convenience, and the general strength of the industry sectors in which our customers transact business.
There is competition in all classes of products manufactured by the Company, ranging from divisions of the largest electronic companies, to many small companies. Item 6.Exhibits 31.2Certification of the Principal Financial Officer and Executive Vice President pursuant to Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002