fls.txt
The foregoing list should not be construed as exhaustive, and the Company disclaims any obligation subsequently to revise any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements or to reflect the occurrence of anticipated or unanticipated events.


item1.txt



item2.txt
The estimation of total cost at completion of a contract is subject to numerous variables involving contract costs and estimates as to the length of time to complete the contract.
We evaluate the products or services promised in each contract at inception to determine whether the contract should be accounted for as having one or more performance obligations.
Management has available a $3,000,000 line of credit to help fund further growth or working capital needs, if necessary, but does not anticipate the need for any borrowed funds in the foreseeable future.
Net sales to three significant customers represented 56.7% of the Company’s total sales for the three-month period ended September 30, 2019.
The Company currently believes that the cash flow generated from operations and when necessary, from cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet its long-term funding requirements for the foreseeable future.
We assess each contract at its inception to determine whether it should be combined with other contracts.
This report contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
During the three months ended September 30, 2018, the Company did not repurchase any shares held by the ESOP.
Net sales to three significant customers represented 56.7% of the Company’s total sales for the three-month period ended September 30, 2019.
Contingent liabilities on outstanding standby letters of credit agreements aggregated to zero at September 30, 2019 and 2018.
The effective tax rate in fiscal 2019 is less than the statutory tax rate mainly due to the benefit derived from the ESOP dividends paid on allocated shares.
This report contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Gross profit as a percentage of sales was 19.2% and 11.9%, for the same periods, respectively.
Other income for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 was $47,489 and $76,070, respectively.
In the case of the latter, the Company can incur what it refers to as “loss contracts,” primarily on engineering design contracts in which the Company invests with the objective of developing future product sales.
Our business is not seasonal.
The provision for losses on contracts is included in other accrued expenses on the Company’s balance sheet.
In the case of the latter, the Company can incur what it refers to as “loss contracts,” primarily on engineering design contracts in which the Company invests with the objective of developing future product sales.
The increase in cash provided by operating activities compared to the prior year primarily relates to a decrease in accounts receivable, inventory and prepaid and other expenses and an increase in contract liabilities offset, in part, by a decrease in accounts payable.
The transaction price for each performance obligation is based on the estimated standalone selling price of the product or service underlying each performance obligation.
Interest income is a function of the level of investments and investment strategies which generally tend to be conservative.
Certain contracts are expected to extend beyond twelve months.
We recognize revenue using the output method based on the appraisal of results achieved and milestones reached or units delivered based on contractual shipment terms, typically shipping point.
Selling, general and administrative expenses were $1,084,212 for the three months ended September 30, 2019; an increase of $74,668, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2018.


item3.txt
The Company is a smaller reporting company as defined under Securities and Exchange Commission Rule 12b-2.


item4.txt
   31.2  Certification of the Principal Financial Officer and Executive Vice President pursuant to Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
 Item 6.Exhibits


part2.txt
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
   32.2  Certification of the Principal Financial Officer and Executive Vice President pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
 Item 5.Other Information


