fls.txt
Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section below entitled “Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Statements,” elsewhere herein and in other filings made with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2018.


item1.txt
For U.S. federal tax purposes, the credit cannot be utilized immediately but will carryforward for a period of 20 years.
If we experience an ownership change as defined in Section 382 of the IRC, our ability to use these NOLs will be substantially limited, which could therefore significantly impair the value of that asset.
We have the intent and ability to hold these loans to maturity or payoff and as such, have classified these loans as held-for-investment.
These loans are reported on the balance sheet at the outstanding principal balance adjusted for any charge-offs, allowance for loan losses, and deferred fees or costs.
Subsequent recoveries, if any, are credited to the allowance.
As of June 30, 2018, we had state NOLs of $33,240.
Certain prior period income amounts have been reclassified to conform with current period presentation.
In addition, we may seek to restrict the percentage of our assets that are contained in illiquid real estate assets by seeking financing to continue expansion of our real estate operations while maintaining sufficient liquid assets to execute our business plan and invest in other value producing assets, including acquisition of additional businesses and assets.
In December 2018, we began purchasing participation interests in Merchant Cash Advances (“MCAs”) from a third party whose principal activity is originating MCAs to small businesses.
The accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements included herein have been prepared by the Company pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).
As a result of the TCJA, we are reassessing our intentions related to our indefinite reinvestment assertion as part of our provisional estimates.
Factor income on merchant advance receivables is earned and recognized ratably as receivables are collected, at factor rates stipulated in the client funding agreement from the date of purchase through the date the receivables are collected or ceases accruing factor revenue when the receivable is identified as uncollectible.
As of December 31, 2018, our advance receivable was not impaired.


item2.txt
We created Recur Holdings LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, during the first quarter of our fiscal year 2019.
Based upon our existing cash balances, equity securities and available-for-sale-term investments, historical cash usage, and anticipated operating cash flow in the current fiscal year, we believe that existing U.S. cash balances will be sufficient to meet our anticipated working capital requirements for at least the next 12 months from the issuance date of this report.
Our mortgage loans typically require interest only payments until maturity or payoff.
2016-01 on July 1, 2018, changes in fair value of equity securities are recorded within the consolidated statement of operations as a net unrealized gain (loss) on investments.
 ·a $1.8 million decrease in stock-based compensation expense resulting from the acceleration of vesting of restricted stock awards in the prior year due to the change of control triggered by the sale of our Content Delivery business on December 31, 2017;
Additionally, we provided a $2 million cash advance to an aviation business to fund the deposit required for the recipient’s aircraft purchases for up to six months, in exchange for paying us an upfront fee.
Results of the Content Delivery business are retrospectively reflected as discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for all periods presented (see Note 3, “Discontinued Operations,” to the accompanying consolidated financial statements).
On December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our content delivery and storage business (the “Content Delivery business”) and other related assets to Vecima Networks, Inc. (“Vecima”) pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement (the “CDN APA”), dated as of October 13, 2017, between the Company and Vecima.
We had no material off-balance sheet arrangements as of December 31, 2018.
In the latter half of our fiscal year 2018 we began investing a portion of our business sale proceeds in equity securities, some of which declared and paid dividends during the six months ended December 31, 2018.
Our mortgage loans typically require interest only payments until maturity or payoff.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Small businesses typically seek these advances for working capital purposes to finance their purchase of inventory, equipment, or to otherwise address immediate business needs.
This business presents a number of unique risks, including the illiquidity of the cash advances; our critical reliance on certain individuals to operate the business; collection and cash advance repayment issues and challenges given that the MCAs are typically unsecured; and sensitivity to general economic conditions.
Furthermore, engaging in unfamiliar transactions may require additional management time and attention relative to transactions with which we are more familiar.
An MCA funder provides small businesses with cash advances in return for the purchase of an amount of the small business’s future receipts.


