fls.txt
All forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events to differ materially from those projected.
Risk Factors” in this report or elsewhere herein.


item1.txt
Upon our adoption of ASU 2016-01, effective July 1, 2018, changes in fair value of equity securities are recorded within the consolidated statement of operations as a net realized gain (loss) on investments.
As of September 30, 2018, we had 15,000 stock options outstanding and 60,000 restricted shares outstanding.
References herein to “CCUR Holdings,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” or “our” refer to CCUR Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries unless the context specifically indicates otherwise.
During the year ended June 30, 2017, we applied for both a U.S. federal and state of Georgia research and development tax credit in the amounts of $719 and $675, respectively, for our fiscal year ending June 30, 2016.
We expect to conclude our analysis during the second quarter of fiscal 2019.
During the three months ended September 30, 2018, we provided a $2,000 cash advance to an aviation business to fund the deposit required for the recipient’s aircraft purchases for up to six months, in exchange for paying us an upfront fee and a guaranty of the full repayment obligation from the principal of the third-party business.
Based on the success of these activities, including the yield characteristics of these loans, and management’s experience in the real estate area, we created Recur Holdings LLC, a Delaware limited liability company wholly owned by the Company, during the first quarter of our fiscal year 2019.
During the three months ended September 30, 2018, the Company did not grant any equity compensation and no options or restricted stock awards vested, forfeited or canceled.
We recognize stock compensation expense over the requisite service period of the individual grantees, which generally equals the vesting period.
Basic earnings (loss) per share is computed by dividing income (loss) by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during each year.
As of June 30, 2018, we had U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards (“NOLs”) of approximately $56,113 for income tax purposes, of which none expire in fiscal year 2019, and the remainder expire at various dates through fiscal year 2037.
CCUR Holdings was formerly known as Concurrent Computer Corporation and changed its name on January 2, 2018.
We are not presently involved in any material litigation.
CCUR Holdings, Inc.


item2.txt
In May 2017, we sold our Real-Time business consisting of real-time Linux operating system versions, development and performance optimization tools, simulation software and other system software combined to Real-Time, Inc. pursuant to an Asset and Share Purchase Agreement.
We expect that the proposed transaction with LuxeMark will provide the Company with two revenue streams generated through (i) the Company’s 80% membership interest and thereby its pro-rated portion of the fee income earned by LuxeMark on its syndicators’ invested capital and (ii) returns received on the $10 million the Company makes available as a LuxeMark syndicator.
The SEC defines “critical accounting estimates” as those that require application of management’s most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain and may change in subsequent periods.
Our critical accounting policies and estimates are disclosed under the section “Application of Critical Accounting Policies” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018.
Certain statements made or incorporated by reference in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q may constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the federal securities laws.
Additionally, we provided a $2.0 million cash advance to an aviation business to fund the deposit required for the recipient’s aircraft purchases for up to six months, in exchange for paying us an upfront fee.
Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018 and in “Item 1A.
References herein to the “current year period” and the “prior year period” refer to the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
In the latter half of our fiscal year 2018 the Company began investing a portion of its business sale proceeds in equity securities, some of which declared and paid dividends during the three months ended September 30, 2018.
In May 2017, we sold our Real-Time business consisting of real-time Linux operating system versions, development and performance optimization tools, simulation software and other system software combined to Real-Time, Inc. pursuant to an Asset and Share Purchase Agreement.
The risks and uncertainties which could affect our financial condition or results of operations include, without limitation: uncertainty caused by the Company’s suspension of trading on The Nasdaq Stock Market and subsequent transfer of our stock listing to the OTCQB Venture Market; the process of evaluating strategic alternatives; the Company’s ability to compete with experienced investors in the acquisition of one or more businesses, the Company’s ability to consummate proposed acquisition transactions; the Company’s ability to utilize its NOLs to offset cash taxes, in general, and in the event of an ownership change as defined by the Internal Revenue Code; changes in and related uncertainties caused by changes in applicable tax laws, the current macroeconomic environment generally and with respect to acquisitions and the financing thereof; continuing unevenness of the global economic recovery; the availability of debt or equity financing to support any liquidity needs; global terrorism; and earthquakes, tsunamis, floods and other natural disasters.


item4.txt
Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the company’s management, including its principal executive and principal financial officers, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.


part2.txt
There can be no assurance that LuxeMark will be willing to proceed with a transaction, that we will be able to negotiate and execute a satisfactory definitive purchase agreement with LuxeMark, that our due diligence will be satisfactory, or that the conditions to closing will be satisfied.
 Item 1A.


