fls.txt
Our forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and speak only as of the date of such statements.


item1.txt
All remaining share-based compensation expense for the three and six month periods ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 resulted from vesting of shares over their respective vesting periods.
The Separation Agreement contains a general release of claims against us and other “Released Parties” by the CEO and a covenant not to sue such Released Parties.
In the event an agreement is terminated by us without cause or in certain circumstances constructively by us, the terminated employee will receive severance compensation for a period from 6 to 12 months, depending on the officer, in an annualized amount equal to the respective employee’s base salary then in effect.
The SEC issued Staff Accounting Bulletin (“SAB 118”) on December 22, 2017.
2016-15, Clarification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments (“ASU 2016-15”), which eliminates the diversity in practice related to the classification of certain cash receipts and payments in the statement of cash flows, by adding or clarifying guidance on eight specific cash flow issues.
As of December 31, 2017, 22,500 restricted stock awards granted to our three remaining independent directors in November 2017 remain outstanding and subject to their original time-based vesting schedule.
We provide fair value measurements disclosures of our available-for-sale securities in accordance with one of the three levels of fair value measurement.
During the three and six months ended December 31, 2017, we recognized $123 and $279, respectively, of the state of Georgia credit and reduced operating expenses accordingly.
A hearing before the Listing Panel is scheduled for February 15, 2018 and we expect a decision from the Listing Panel within or up to thirty (30) days of the hearing.
Additionally, as reported in our Current Report on Form 8-K filed on July 31, 2017, the Board approved an increase in the size of the Board of Directors from four (4) to five (5) members and added one new independent director.
We are not presently involved in any material litigation.
The Consent and Limited Waiver provides that so long as (i) the Investor Group collectively beneficially own no more than 24.9% of the outstanding shares of common stock of the Company and (ii) any acquisition of common stock of the Company by the Investor Group would not reasonably be expected to actually limit the Company’s ability to utilize the Company’s net operating loss carryforwards under applicable United States, state, or foreign tax laws, the Company shall not deem the Investor Group to have effected a Prohibited Transfer as that term is defined in the Company’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation.
Pursuant to the Separation Agreement, the CEO is required to comply with certain restrictive covenants regarding nondisclosure of Company information, non-disparagement, non-competition and non-solicitation of our customers and employees.
The Content Delivery business provided advanced applications focused on storing, protecting, transforming, and delivering high value media assets and served industries and customers that demand uncompromising performance, reliability and flexibility to gain a competitive edge, drive meaningful growth and confidently deliver best-in-class solutions that enrich the lives of millions of people around the world every day.
Substantially all liabilities associated with the Content Delivery business were assigned to Vecima as part of the transaction.
The Board also appointed Mr. Nicol as (i) Audit Committee Chairman and Audit Committee Financial Expert, replacing Wayne Barr, Jr. in those positions, and (ii) as a member of the Compensation and Nominating committees.


item2.txt
Our short-term investments consist of highly liquid commercial paper and U.S. Treasury bills and have original maturities of more than 3 months but no more than 12 months.
On October 27, 2017, we announced the Board of Directors’ decision to suspend future dividends after the payment of the December 2017 quarterly dividend while the Board of Directors and the Investment Committee consider potential acquisition targets and alternative uses of our remaining assets.
On January 2, 2018, we changed our Company name to “CCUR Holdings, Inc.” We currently trade on the Nasdaq stock market under the same “CCUR” symbol and have launched a new website located at www.ccurholdings.com.
Results of our Content Delivery and Real-Time businesses are retrospectively reflected as discontinued operations in our consolidated financial statements for all periods presented (see Note 4 to the condensed consolidated financial statements).
Our short-term investments consist of highly liquid commercial paper and U.S. Treasury bills and have original maturities of more than 3 months but no more than 12 months.
Other income, net increased in the current period relative to the prior period due to our increase in cash and short-term investments as a result of the sale of our Real-Time business in May 2017.


item3.txt



item4.txt
None.


part2.txt
If the company becomes a shell company, holders of restricted securities issued by the company will not be able to resell their securities in reliance upon Rule 144 until all of such conditions are satisfied, which cannot occur for at least one year after the company has ceased being shell company.
In the event that claims for indemnification for breach of most of the representations and warranties made by us under the Real-Time APA exceed this threshold, we will be obligated to indemnify the RT Purchaser for any damages or loss resulting from such breach up to $2 million, provided, however, that this cap does not apply to (i) fraud or (ii) breaches or inaccuracies of any of the fundamental representations identified in the Real-Time APA.
As such, the Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Department determined the continued listing of our common stock on the Nasdaq Global Market is no longer warranted.
Investments which yield a higher return also subject us to incremental risk over government securities other existing investments.
In addition, under Rule 144 of the Securities Act, a holder of restricted securities of a “shell company” is not allowed to resell their securities in reliance upon Rule 144 until certain conditions are satisfied.


