fls.txt
These statements are based on beliefs and assumptions of our management, which are based on currently available information.


item1.txt
The Protective Amendment was extended by our stockholders at our 2017 Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on October 25, 2017 and will expire on the earliest of (i) the Board of Directors’ determination that the Protective Amendment is no longer necessary for the preservation of the Company’s NOLs because of the amendment or repeal of Section 382 or any successor statute, (ii) the close of business on the first day of any taxable year of CCUR Holdings to which the Board of Directors determines that none of our NOLs may be carried forward (iii) such date as the Board of Directors otherwise determines that the Protective Amendment is no longer necessary for the preservation of the Company’s NOLs and (iv) the date of our Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held during calendar year 2018.
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly fashion between market participants at the measurement date.
Primarily, the screen requires that when substantially all of the fair value of the gross assets acquired is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or group of similar identifiable assets, the set is not a business.
Our Board of Directors has established a special committee consisting of directors David Nicol and Dilip Singh to review whether any additional amounts are subject to disgorgement from JDS1, LLC under Section 16 of the Exchange Act and to oversee recovery of any such amounts.
Because the participants are not entitled to these dividends unless they complete the requisite service period for the shares to vest, they are not “participating dividends” as defined under ASC Topic 260-10, Earnings per Share.
of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017 filed on September 20, 2017, our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended December 31, 2017 filed on February 14, 2018, and in “Risk Factors Relating to the Proposal to Approve the Asset Sale” of our Definitive Proxy Statement filed on November 6, 2017.
All of the above expenses were recorded as of December 31, 2017 and are included in general and administrative expenses of continuing operations in our condensed consolidated statement of operations for the nine months ended March 31, 2018.
At March 31, 2018, the maximum contingent liability under these agreements is $437.
During the term of the Consulting Agreement, which will run from January 1, 2018 through December 31, 2018 unless terminated earlier in accordance with its terms, Spartan will be paid an aggregate of $85,000 in twelve monthly installments.
We are exposed to market risk primarily through changes in fair value of available-for-sale fixed maturity and equity securities in which the Company invests.
On May 15, 2017, we completed the sale and transfer of certain assets and certain liabilities primarily related to our Real-Time business pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement (the “RT APA”) dated as of May 15, 2017 with Real Time, Inc. (the “RT Purchaser”), an investment company owned by Battery Ventures, a private-equity firm based in Boston, Massachusetts, for $35,000 less agreed upon adjustments for working capital.
SAB 118 provides registrants with guidance on when and how to report the impact of the law change when all necessary information is not available.
The TCJA also includes provisions that, beginning in 2018, reduce the maximum federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% and eliminate the alternative minimum tax, which would lessen any adverse impact of the limitations described in the preceding sentences.
ccur holdings, inc.
On October 27, 2017, we announced the Board of Directors’ decision to suspend the Company’s quarterly dividend following the payment of the December 28, 2017 dividend to preserve the Company’s liquidity while the Investment Committee considers potential acquisition targets and alternative uses of the Company’s remaining assets, including the proceeds of the Vecima transaction.
The amortized cost and fair value of fixed maturity securities available-for-sale as of March 31, 2018 are shown by contractual maturity in the table below.
Transaction costs directly associated with the sale of the Content Delivery business include legal, accounting, investment banking and other fees paid to external parties.


item2.txt
References to our Form 10-K made throughout this document refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017 as filed with the SEC on September 20, 2017.
We also paid less than $0.1 million of dividends that had been held as dividends payable from previous declarations to restricted stockholders for whom restrictions lapsed during each period.
On December 31, 2017 we entered into a Separation and Consulting Agreement and General Release of Claims with Derek Elder, whereby Mr. Elder’s role as president and CEO of the Company terminated and he ceased to be a member of our Board of Directors and all committees thereof, effective on December 31, 2017.
Certain statements made or incorporated by reference in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q may constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the federal securities laws.
Based upon our existing cash balances, historical cash usage, and anticipated operating cash flow in the near term, we believe that existing cash balances will be sufficient to meet our anticipated working capital, capital expenditure requirements and any dividend payments for at least the next twelve months from the date of issuance of this quarterly report.
At March 31, 2018, we had no material commitments for capital expenditures.
Mr. Elder’s separation from the Company did not involve any disagreement with the Board of Directors, the Company or its management on any matter relating to the Company’s operations, policies or practices.


item3.txt



item4.txt
 Item 6.Exhibits


part2.txt
c. Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and affiliated purchasers.
However, we are, from time to time, party to various routine legal proceedings arising out of our business.
Beginning in 2018, the TCJA generally will, among other things, permit us to offset only 80% (rather than 100%) of our taxable income with any net operating losses we generate after 2017.
While the Company has taken the steps described above to address transactions of Section 16 reporting persons, there can be no assurance that related litigation will not arise, including litigation initiated by the stockholders that have contacted the Company regarding these transactions.


