fls.txt
Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section below entitled “Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements,” elsewhere herein and in other filings made with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018.


item1.txt
The Management Agreement requires the Asset Manager to act in a fair and reasonable manner in allocating investment and trading opportunities among our account and any other account managed by the Asset Manager or any of its affiliates.
All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.
The Asset Manager may identify target operating businesses and assets that would be appropriate for acquisition by us and other entities managed by the Asset Manager and, after consideration of relevant factors, the Asset Manager may determine the target opportunity is more suitable for us or a different entity.
As of March 31, 2019, one of our mortgage loans with $1,400 of outstanding principal was subject to default rate interest.
The Management Agreement requires the Asset Manager to act in a fair and reasonable manner in allocating investment and trading opportunities among our account and any other account managed by the Asset Manager or any of its affiliates.
Weighted-average common share equivalents of 11,195 and 9,614 for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and weighted-average common share equivalents of 19,398 and 216,791 for the nine months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, were excluded from the calculation, as their effect would have been anti-dilutive.
As of February 13, 2019, we used Level 3 inputs to determine the fair value of our contingent consideration and common stock purchase warrants related to the purchase of LuxeMark (see Note 12 - Acquisitions).
Based upon the Company’s total assets as of March 31, 2019, the Company expects to issue 79,482 SARs to CIDM during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year 2019.
We have taken steps to protect the value of our NOLs with a “Tax Asset Preservation Plan” which is described more fully in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018.
Results associated with the Content Delivery business are classified within income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes, in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.
The fair value of common stock purchase warrants issued as part of the Purchase Agreement entitles the holders to purchase from the Company an aggregate amount of 444,361 common shares once vested.
If we experience an ownership change as defined in Section 382 of the IRC, our ability to use these NOLs will be substantially limited, which could therefore significantly impair the value of that asset.
These loans are reported on the balance sheet at the outstanding principal balance adjusted for any charge-offs, allowance for loan losses, and deferred fees or costs.


item2.txt
On January 1, 2019, upon the recommendation of the Compensation Committee of the Board, the Board adopted the 2019 CCUR Bonus Plan, also referred to herein as the “NAV Program,” pursuant to which certain employees of the Company have the opportunity, among other things, to earn cash and equity incentive awards through a program based on growth in the Company’s net asset value (“NAV”).
Operating cash flows during the nine months ending March 31, 2018 were primarily attributable to the timing of payments made against our accounts payable to settle the previous period’s transaction costs related to the sale of our Real-Time business in our fiscal year 2017, inventory purchases and accrued compensation, coupled with losses from continuing operations.
Unrealized Loss on Equity Securities, Net.
On December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our content delivery and storage business (the “Content Delivery business”) and other related assets to Vecima Networks, Inc. (“Vecima”) pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement (the “CDN APA”), dated as of October 13, 2017, between the Company and Vecima.
During the third quarter of our fiscal year 2019, we sold investments in certain debt and equity securities for which we recognized $0.5 million realized gains for the three months ended March 31, 2019.
 ·a $0.4 million decrease in non-acquisition-related legal and accounting fees.
Under the terms of the Management Agreement, in addition to a cash payment to compensate CIDM for expenses incurred in connection with providing these services, the Company will pay for these services through the issuance of cash-settled stock appreciation rights in respect of Company common stock resulting in no cash payment to CIDM unless and until there are certain qualifying changes of control of the Company (which does not include any change of control related to the stock ownership of CIDM or its affiliates).
During the third quarter of our fiscal year 2019, we sold investments in certain debt and equity securities for which we recognized $0.5 million realized gains for the three months ended March 31, 2019.
CIDM and its affiliates will be subject to standard trading restrictions and standstill provisions while the Management Agreement is active.
 3.14   Certificate of Amendment to Restated Certificate of Incorporation of CCUR Holdings, Inc., dated as of November 8, 2018 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No.


item4.txt



part2.txt
The Asset Manager has the ability to earn a management fee calculated based on the value of our total assets which may create incentive for the Asset Manager to invest, to the extent permitted by our investment policy, in investments with higher yield potential, that are generally riskier or more speculative, or sell an investment prematurely for a gain, in an effort to increase our short-term net income and thereby increase the fee to which it is entitled.
When engaging in such transactions, we may not be successful in our diligence and underwriting efforts.
The Asset Manager may identify target operating businesses and assets that would be appropriate for acquisition by us and other entities managed by the Asset Manager and, after consideration of relevant factors, the Asset Manager may determine the target opportunity is more suitable for us or a different entity.
Such acquisitions entail substantial risk.
10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 7, 2019 and Form 8-KA on January 9, 2019 (File No.


