fls.txt
Risk Factors” in this report or elsewhere herein.


item1.txt
Based upon the Company’s total assets as of September 30, 2019, we expect to issue an additional 87,997 SARs to CIDM during the second quarter of our fiscal year 2020.
All cash equivalents are carried at cost less any unamortized premium or discount, which approximates fair value.
 14.Commitments and Contingencies and Related Party Transactions
During the first quarter of our fiscal year 2019 we created Recur Holdings LLC (“Recur”), a Delaware limited liability company wholly owned by the Company.
We recently completed an evaluation of the potential effect of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (the “IRC”) on our ability to utilize these NOLs.
We completed an evaluation of the potential effect of Sections 382 and 383 on our ability to utilize these acquired NOLs and credits.
 1.Overview of the Business and Basis of Presentation
The risk-free interest rate is approximated using rates available on U.S. Treasury securities with a remaining term similar to the option’s expected life.
Land investment assets are stated at acquired cost.
In February 2019, the Company entered into a management agreement (as amended, the “Management Agreement”) with CIDM LLC (“CIDM” or the “Asset Manager”) under which CIDM provides consulting services and advice to the Board of Directors and the Company’s management regarding asset allocation and acquisition strategy.
Under the treasury stock method, incremental shares representing the number of additional common shares that would have been outstanding if the dilutive potential common shares had been issued are included in the computation.
The recent accounting guidance not yet adopted is consistent with the information provided in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019.
During the first three months of our fiscal year 2020 we loaned an additional $2,750,000 to the same MCA originator with the same terms as the loans issued in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year 2019.
Stock-based compensation is recorded net of expected forfeitures.
We do not believe the value of this loan is impaired, as the appraised value of the underlying property exceeds the outstanding balance of the mortgage.
We used Level 3 inputs to determine the fair value of our preferred stock investments.
CIDM is an affiliate of the Company’s largest stockholder, JDS1, LLC.


item2.txt
During the three months ended September 30, 2019, we generated $1.7 million of total revenue, compared to $0.1 million in the quarter ended September 30, 2018, driven largely by the growth in our participation in the MCA industry.
During the three months ended September 30, 2019, we generated $1.7 million of total revenue, compared to $0.1 million in the quarter ended September 30, 2018, driven largely by the growth in our participation in the MCA industry.
We had working capital (current assets less current liabilities) of $49.4 million at September 30, 2019, compared to working capital of $48.8 million at June 30, 2019.
Partially offsetting the net cash inflows from MCAs, debt and equity securities, we funded $2.0 million more in mortgage and commercial loans than we collected during the period, primarily attributable to new loans that we made to funders in the MCA industry.
Interest income also includes accretion of discounts for which we purchased debt securities whereby such discount is amortized over the term of the debt security to its commitment value that will be due on the maturity date, as well as early repayment.
Other interest income is earned on cash overnight sweep accounts and money market deposits, as well as investments in debt securities.
Pursuant to the terms of the purchase agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby, the Company holds an 80% interest in LMCS, with the remaining 20% held by LuxeMark Capital, LLC (“Old LuxeMark”).
We generated $0.5 million and used $0.1 million of cash for operating activities during the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Interest income also includes accretion of discounts for which we purchased debt securities whereby such discount is amortized over the term of the debt security to its commitment value that will be due on the maturity date, as well as early repayment.
 Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds


item4.txt



part2.txt
 Item 1A.Risk Factors


