fls.txt
 Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance that such expectations will prove to have been correct.


item1.txt
  Software product consists of sales of perpetual and term software licenses for products developed by third party vendors, which are distinct from related maintenance and support.
Delivery of the software license and related support over time is considered a single performance obligation of the third-party vendor for these products.
 Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries
In cases where the software maintenance is distinct from the related software license, software maintenance is accounted for as a separate performance obligation.
 In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (“ASU 2016-15”) which reduces diversity in practice in how certain transactions are classified in the statement of cash flows.
2014-09 Revenue from Contracts with customers, or Accounting Standard Codification (“ASC”) 606 using the full retrospective method, as discussed in detail in Note 5.
The table below summarizes previously reported and restated amounts on a comparative basis.
Delivery of the software license and related support over time is considered a single performance obligation of the third-party vendor for these products.
separately identifiable from other promises in the contract.
2017-09, “Scope of Modification Accounting”, to reduce diversity in practice and provide clarity regarding existing guidance in ASC 718, “Stock Compensation”.
 Contract balances - Accounts receivable are recorded at the invoiced amount, net of an allowance for doubtful accounts and returns.
These shares of Restricted Stock vest between sixteen and twenty equal quarterly installments.
 For the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, the Company recognized share-based compensation cost of $0.3 million and $0.3 million respectively, which is included in the Company’s general and administrative expense.
The table below summarizes previously reported and restated amounts on a comparative basis.


item2.txt
ASU 2016-02 requires a lessee to recognize in the statement of financial position a liability to make lease payments and a right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying asset for the lease term.
Leases will be classified as either finance or operating leases with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition in the statement of earnings.
In doing so, the Company considers competitive market rates and other factors.
 Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance that such expectations will prove to have been correct.
software that is highly interdependent with support, as well as maintenance, support and other services.
One major customer accounted for 25.9% and the other for 18.2%, of our total net sales during the three months ended March 31, 2018.
The Company is currently evaluating the potential effects of adopting the provisions of ASU No.
 first quarter of 2018.
 In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (“ASU 2016-15”) which reduces diversity in practice in how certain transactions are classified in the statement of cash flows.
 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
The Company is currently evaluating the potential effects of adopting the provisions of ASU No.
 This report includes “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).
We provided a reconciliation of Adjusted gross billings to net sales, which is the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure.


item3.txt



item4.txt
 Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures.


part2.txt
 Item 2.


