fls.txt
The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.


item1.txt
The Company also determined that the vendor has ongoing performance obligation for sales of certain third-party maintenance, support and service contracts.
The new guidance requires the Company to identify performance obligations and assess transfer of control.
 Accounts Receivable – From time to time, we sell accounts receivable to a financial institution on a non-recourse basis.
 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
 Hardware and software product - Hardware product consists of sales of hardware manufactured by third parties.
Non-vested restricted stock awards that include non-forfeitable rights to dividends are considered participating securities.
GAAP”) for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Rule 8-03 of Regulation S-X.
When acting as an agent in a transaction, the Company accounts for sales on a net basis, with the vendor cost associated with the sale recognized as a reduction of revenue.
The receivables are recorded at their discounted fair value at September 30 ,2018.
 The effective tax rate for the nine and three months ended September 30, 2018 was 35.4% and 24.2%, compared to 32.2% and 33.3%, for the same periods last year.
ASU 2016-02 requires a lessee to recognize in the statement of financial position a liability to make lease payments and a right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying asset for the lease term.
These shares of Restricted Stock vest between one and twenty equal quarterly installments.
The internal organization used by the public company’s Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM) to assess performance and allocate resources determines the basis for reportable operating segments.


item2.txt
consequences of an intra-entity transfer of an asset other than inventory when the transfer occurs.
The Company reported net income of $1.3 million for each of the quarters ended September 30, 2018 and 2017.
ASU 2018-07 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years.
The Company makes estimates regarding performance obligations inherent in the products and services it sells including, whether ongoing maintenance obligations performed by third party vendors are distinct from the related software licenses, and allocation of sales prices among distinct performance obligations.
 Stock Volatility.
2016-13 is effective for the Company in the first quarter of 2020, with early adoption permitted, and is to be applied using a modified retrospective approach.
Approximately 9.3% of our net sales were recorded on a net basis compared to 10.1% in the same period of the prior year.
The Credit Facility, which will be used for working capital and general corporate purposes, matures on August 31, 2020, at which time the Company must pay all outstanding principal of all outstanding loans plus all accrued and unpaid interest, and any interest, fees, costs and expenses, if any.
The ASU is effective for the Company beginning in fiscal 2019.
ASU 2018-07 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years.
The Company is continuing to evaluate the impact of the adoption of this guidance on its consolidated financial statements.
 Separation expense for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was $2.4 million compared to no expense in the same period in 2017.
Software and hardware products for which sales and cost of sales are reported on separate line items are referred to as being recorded on a gross basis.
Software and hardware products for which sales and cost of sales are reported on separate line items are referred to as being recorded on a gross basis.


item3.txt



item4.txt
   ·    Retain and evaluate the qualifications and performance of experts who are engaged to assist in the evaluation and adoption of accounting and tax matters where appropriate.


part2.txt
These shares are not included in the Common Stock repurchase program referred to in footnote (4) below.


