Net sales are recorded net of estimated discounts, rebates, and returns.
Non-vested restricted stock awards that include non-forfeitable rights to dividends are considered participating securities.
All revenue is generated from contracts with customers.
The ASU retains the existing cost attribution guidance, which requires entities to recognize compensation cost for nonemployee awards in the same period and in the same manner (i.e., capitalize or expense) they would if they paid cash for the goods or services, but it moves the guidance to ASC 718.
 Refund liability – The Company records a refund liability for expected product returns with a corresponding asset for an amount representing any expected recovery from vendors regarding the return.
 As permitted by FASB ASC Topic 280, the Company has utilized the aggregation criteria in combining its operations in Canada with the domestic segments as the Canadian operations provide the same products and services to similar clients and are considered together when the Company’s CODM decides how to allocate resources.
2016-13 revises the methodology for measuring credit losses on financial instruments and the timing of when such losses are recorded.
The unrecognized compensation cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.9 years.
Some amendments do not require transition guidance and will be effective upon the issuance of this standard. On an on-going basis, the Company evaluates its estimates, including those related to product returns, bad debts, inventories, intangible assets, income taxes, stock-based compensation, contingencies and litigation.
 On an on-going basis, the Company evaluates its estimates, including those related to product returns, bad debts, inventories, intangible assets, income taxes, stock-based compensation, contingencies and litigation.
We also use judgement in the allocation of sales proceeds among performance obligations, utilizing observable data such as stand-alone selling prices, or market pricing for similar products and services.
The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements.
 The Company operates in a rapidly changing business, and new risk factors emerge from time to time.
 The Company makes estimates regarding performance obligations inherent in the products and services it sells including, whether ongoing maintenance obligations performed by third party vendors are distinct from the related software licenses, and allocation of sales prices among distinct performance obligations.
 TechXtend segment net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2019 increased $1.1 million, or 29%, to $4.8 million compared to $3.7 million for the prior year.
The guidance also allows nonpublic entities to account for nonemployee awards using certain practical expedients that are already available for employee awards, but the same accounting policies must be used for awards to both employees and nonemployees.
Software and hardware products for which sales and cost of sales are reported on separate line items are referred to as being recorded on a gross basis.