 Hardware and software product - Hardware product consists of sales of hardware manufactured by third parties.
In cases where the software maintenance is not distinct from the related software license, it is accounted for as a single performance obligation with the related license.
2016-13 is effective for the Company in the first quarter of 2020, with early adoption permitted, and is to be applied using a modified retrospective approach.
All amounts and disclosures set forth in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q have been updated to comply with ASC 606 as discussed in Note 5.
The balance of accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful accounts and returns, as of December 31, 2017 and June 30, 2018 is presented in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheets.
The Company is an agent in these transactions, with revenue being recorded on a net basis when its performance obligation of processing a valid order between the supplier and customer contracting for the services is complete.
In the opinion of the Company’s management, all adjustments that are of a normal recurring nature, considered necessary for fair presentation, have been included in the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements.
2017-09, “Scope of Modification Accounting”, to reduce diversity in practice and provide clarity regarding existing guidance in ASC 718, “Stock Compensation”.ASU 2016-02 requires a lessee to recognize in the statement of financial position a liability to make lease payments and a right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying asset for the lease term.
 As of June 30, 2018, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S-K.
 Gross profit margin (gross profit as a percentage of net sales) for the quarter ended June 30, 2018 was 14.8% compared to 16.8% in 2017.
These estimates require significant judgement to determine whether the software’s functionality is dependent on ongoing maintenance or if substantially all functionality is available in the original software download.
The Company is currently assessing the impact this ASU will have on its consolidated financial statements.
The new guidance was effective for the Company on a prospective basis beginning on January 1, 2018 and did not impact the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements as it is not the Company’s practice to change either the terms or conditions of stock-based payment awards once they are granted.
 TechXtend segment net sales increased $2.0 million or 52% to $5.6 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2018, compared to $3.7 million for the prior year.
 For the three months ended June 30, 2018, the Company recorded a provision for income taxes of $0.1 million, compared to $0.6 million for the same period in 2017.
In addition, other companies, including companies in our industry, might calculate separation expenses net of tax, or similarly titled measures differently, which may reduce their usefulness as comparative measures.