 Our basic and diluted earnings per share are computed using the two-class method.
GAAP”) for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Rule 8-03 of Regulation S-X.
 Refund liability – The Company records a refund liability for expected product returns with a corresponding asset for an amount representing any expected recovery from vendors regarding the return.
Interest on the unpaid principal balance of the Note will be calculated using a rate of 1.50 percentage points over the Index.
During the six months ended June 30, 2019, a total of 5,125 shares of Restricted Stock were forfeited.
Non-vested restricted stock awards that include non-forfeitable rights to dividends are considered participating securities.
 Determination of the transaction price —The transaction price is determined based on the consideration to which we will be entitled in exchange for transferring goods or services to the customer.
 Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and SubsidiariesAs of June 30, 2019, no borrowings were outstanding under the Credit Facility.
Lifeboat Distribution segment gross profit for the three months ended June 30, 2019 increased 35%, or $1.8 million, to $7.1 million compared to $5.3 million for the same period in the prior year due to the sales growth from existing and new product lines discussed above and changes in early pay discounts to vendors.
 The adoption of the new standard had a material effect on the Company’s financial statements, with the most significant effects of adoption relating to (1) the recognition of new right-of-use assets and lease liabilities on its balance sheet for real estate operating leases; and (2) providing significant new disclosures about its leasing activities.
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this report and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Lifeboat Distribution segment gross profit for the six months ended June 30, 2019 increased 16%, or $1.9 million, to $13.4 million compared to $11.5 million for the same period in the prior year due to the sales growth from existing and new product lines discussed above.
In addition, other companies, including companies in our industry, might calculate separation expenses, net of taxes, or similarly titled measures differently, which may reduce their usefulness as comparative measures.
 The adoption of the new standard had a material effect on the Company’s financial statements, with the most significant effects of adoption relating to (1) the recognition of new right-of-use assets and lease liabilities on its balance sheet for real estate operating leases; and (2) providing significant new disclosures about its leasing activities.
The decrease was primarily due to fewer high dollar enterprise sale transactions and a decrease in extended payment term sales during the six months ended June 30, 2019 compared to the same period in the prior year.
 Lifeboat Distribution segment net sales for the three months ended June 30, 2019 increased $9.0 million, or 23%, to $47.3 million compared to $38.3 million for the same period in the prior year.