fls.txt
 Accordingly, forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as a prediction of actual results and readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates.


item1.txt
 Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Under this option, comparative periods presented in the financial statements in which the new lease standard is adopted will continue to be presented in accordance with prior guidance.
The unrecognized compensation cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.4 years.
This involves considering if the software provides its original intended functionality without the updates, or is dependent on frequent, or continuous updates to maintain its functionality.
2016-13 is effective for the Company in the first quarter of 2020, with early adoption permitted, and is to be applied using a modified retrospective approach.
 As permitted by FASB ASC Topic 280, the Company has utilized the aggregation criteria in combining its operations in Canada with the domestic segments as the Canadian operations provide the same products and services to similar clients and are considered together when the Company’s CODM decides how to allocate resources.
2016-13 is effective for the Company in the first quarter of 2020, with early adoption permitted, and is to be applied using a modified retrospective approach.
 On May 24, 2019, the Company entered into a Separation and Release Agreement (“2019 Separation Agreement”) with its former President, Chief Executive Officer and member of the Board upon his resignation from the Company effective June 6, 2019.
 Allocation of the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract — If the contract contains a single performance obligation, the entire transaction price is allocated to the single performance obligation.
 The 2012 Stock-Based Compensation Plan (the “2012 Plan”) authorizes the grant of Stock Options, Stock Units, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock, Deferred Stock, Stock Bonuses and other equity-based awards.
million, $1.9 million and $0.2 million during the 12-month periods ending September 30, 2020, 2021 and 2022, respectively.
The new standard provides optional practical expedients in transition, which the Company has elected as a package permitting the Company to not reassess under the new standard prior conclusions regarding lease identification, lease classification and initial direct costs.
The effective tax rate for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 was 25.4% and 35.4%, respectively.


item2.txt
The effective date of the standard is dependent on the facts and circumstances of each amendment.
In addition, other companies, including companies in our industry, might calculate separation expenses, net of taxes, or similarly titled measures differently, which may reduce their usefulness as comparative measures.
 Net cash and cash equivalents used in investing activities during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 was $0.1 million.
This shift in product mix had the effect of increasing gross profit as a percent of net sales by 120 basis points.
The net proceeds from such sales are included in the operating section of the statement of cash flows as changes in accounts receivable.
 Our cash and cash equivalents decreased to $10.2 million as of September 30, 2019 compared to $14.9 million as of December 31, 2018.
It expands the scope of ASC 718 to include share-based payments granted to nonemployees in exchange for goods or services used or consumed in the entity’s own operations and supersedes the guidance in ASC 505-50.
Adjusted gross billings for the TechXtend segment for the three months ended September 30, 2019 decreased $6.1million, or 51%, to $5.9 million compared to $12.0 million for the same period in the prior year.
   (1)    Includes 1,862 shares surrendered to the Company by employees to satisfy individual tax withholding obligations upon vesting of previously issued shares of Restricted Stock.
The ASU retains the existing cost attribution guidance, which requires entities to recognize compensation cost for nonemployee awards in the same period and in the same manner (i.e., capitalize or expense) they would if they paid cash for the goods or services, but it moves the guidance to ASC 718.
It expands the scope of ASC 718 to include share-based payments granted to nonemployees in exchange for goods or services used or consumed in the entity’s own operations and supersedes the guidance in ASC 505-50.
We provided a reconciliation of net income excluding separation expenses, net of taxes to net income and diluted earnings per share excluding separation expenses, net of taxes to diluted earnings per share, which are the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measures.
TechXtend segment gross profit margin for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 was 20.5% compared to 19.9% for the same period in the prior year.
In our TechXtend segment sales are generally driven by sales force effectiveness and success in providing superior customer service, competitive pricing, and flexible payment solutions to our customers.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
These shares are not included in the Common Stock repurchase program referred to in footnote (4) below.


