fls.txt
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains or incorporates by reference statements that are not historical in nature and that are intended to be, and are hereby identified as, “forward-looking statements” as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


item1.txt
The condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements contained in this report include the accounts of Watsco, all of its wholly owned subsidiaries and the accounts of three joint ventures with Carrier Corporation (“Carrier”), in each of which Watsco maintains a controlling interest.
Demand related to the new construction market is generally evenly distributed throughout the year, subject to weather and economic conditions, including their effect on the number of housing completions.
The excess, if any, of the carrying amount of our investment over our ownership percentage in the underlying net assets of the investee is attributed to certain fair value adjustments with the remaining portion recognized as goodwill.
These reclassifications had no effect on net income or earnings per share as previously reported.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the “FASB”) issued a standard on revenue recognition that provides a single, comprehensive revenue recognition model for all contracts with customers.
In January 2016, the FASB issued guidance related to certain aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of financial instruments.
Most prominent among the changes to the standard is the requirement that changes in the fair value of equity investments, with certain exceptions, be recognized through net income rather than other comprehensive income.
In May 2017, the FASB issued guidance to clarify when to account for a change to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award as a modification.
Under the new guidance, modification accounting is required only if the fair value, the vesting conditions or the classification of the award (as equity or liability) changes as a result of the change in terms or conditions.
In February 2016, the FASB issued guidance on accounting for leases, which requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets for the rights and obligations created by those leases.
In July 2018, updated guidance was issued which provides an additional transition method of adoption that allows entities to initially apply the standard at the adoption date and recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings.
We will adopt the guidance on January 1, 2019 using this additional transition method and recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings.
Our current minimum lease commitments are disclosed in Note 16 to our audited consolidated financial statements contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Under this updated standard, an entity should recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value, but the loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.
Results for reporting periods beginning on and after January 1, 2018 are presented under the New Revenue Standard, while prior period results have not been adjusted and continue to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for those periods.
Total service revenue is not material and accounted for less than 1% of our consolidated revenues for both the quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2018.


item2.txt
Demand related to the residential central air conditioning replacement market is typically highest in the second and third quarters, and demand for heating equipment is usually highest in the fourth quarter.
In 2009, we formed a joint venture with Carrier Corporation (“Carrier”), which we refer to as Carrier Enterprise I, in which Carrier contributed 95 of its company-owned locations in 13 Sun Belt states and Puerto Rico, and its export division in Miami, Florida, and we contributed 15 locations that distributed Carrier products.
Neither Watsco nor Carrier has any remaining options to purchase additional ownership interests in Carrier Enterprise I or any of our other joint ventures with Carrier, which are described below.
On November 29, 2016, we purchased an additional 10% ownership interest in Carrier Enterprise II, and, on February 13, 2017, we again purchased an additional 10% ownership interest in Carrier Enterprise II, which together increased our controlling interest to 80%.
We believe that there have been no significant changes during the quarter ended September 30, 2018 to the critical accounting policies disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Refer to Note 1 to our condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of recently adopted and not yet adopted accounting standards.
Revenues for the third quarter of 2018 increased $66.4 million, or 5%, including $3.4 million from locations opened and acquired during the preceding 12 months, offset by $3.8 million from locations closed.
On a same-store basis, revenues increased $66.8 million, or 5%, as compared to the same period in 2017, reflecting a 7% increase in sales of HVAC equipment (68% of sales), which included a 6% increase in residential HVAC equipment and a 9% increase in commercial HVAC equipment, a 4% increase in sales of other HVAC products (28% of sales) and flat sales of commercial refrigeration products (4% of sales).
The increase in same-store revenues was primarily due to realization of price increases, demand for the replacement of residential and commercial HVAC equipment and a higher mix of high-efficiency air conditioning and heating systems, which sell at higher unit prices.
Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percent of revenues for the quarter ended September 30, 2018 increased to 15.5% versus 14.9% for the same period in 2017.
Other income of $3.7 million and $2.3 million for the quarters ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, represents our share of the net income of RSI.
Net interest expense for the third quarter of 2018 decreased $1.1 million, or 51%, primarily as a result of a decrease in average outstanding borrowings, partially offset by a higher effective interest rate for the 2018 period, in each case under our revolving credit facility, as compared to the same period in 2017.


item4.txt



part2.txt
filed herewith.


