Acuity Brands, Inc. (“Acuity Brands”) is the parent company of Acuity Brands Lighting, Inc. (“ABL”) and other subsidiaries (Acuity Brands, ABL, and such other subsidiaries are collectively referred to herein as the “Company,” “we,” “our,” “us,” or similar references) and was incorporated in 2001 under the laws of the State of Delaware.
Our lighting and building management solutions include devices such as luminaires, lighting controls, controllers for various building systems, power supplies, prismatic skylights, and drivers, as well as integrated systems designed to optimize energy efficiency and comfort for various indoor and outdoor applications.
Additionally, we continue to expand our solutions portfolio, including software and services, to provide a host of other economic benefits resulting from data analytics that enables the Internet of Things (“IoT”), supports the advancement of smart buildings, smart cities, and the smart grid, and allows businesses to develop custom applications to scale their operations.
GAAP”) to present the financial position, results of operations, and cash flows of Acuity Brands and its wholly-owned subsidiaries.
These unaudited interim consolidated financial statements reflect all normal and recurring adjustments that are, in the opinion of management, necessary to present fairly our consolidated financial position as of November 30, 2018, our consolidated comprehensive income for the three months ended November 30, 2018 and 2017, and our consolidated cash flows for the three months ended November 30, 2018 and 2017.
On May 1, 2018, using cash on hand and borrowings available under existing credit arrangements, we acquired all of the equity interests of IOTA Engineering, LLC (“IOTA”).
Lucid Design Group, Inc. On February 12, 2018, using cash on hand, we acquired all of the equity interests of Lucid Design Group, Inc (“Lucid”).
The aggregate preliminary purchase price of these acquisitions reflects total goodwill and identified intangible assets of approximately $77.0 million and $81.8 million, respectively.
These amounts are deemed to be provisional until disclosed otherwise, primarily due to our continuing efforts to gather information related to the identification and valuation of certain deferred tax items.
2017-01, Clarifying the Definition of a Business (“ASU 2017-01”), which requires an evaluation of whether substantially all of the fair value of assets obtained in an acquisition is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or a group of similar identifiable assets.Also, please refer to the Acuity Brands' Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2018, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) on October 25, 2018 (“Form 10-K”).
Acuity Brands is the parent company of Acuity Brands Lighting, Inc. (“ABL”) and other subsidiaries (Acuity Brands, ABL, and such other subsidiaries are collectively referred to herein as the “Company,” “we,” “our,” “us,” or similar references).
Our lighting and building management solutions include devices such as luminaires, lighting controls, controllers for various building systems, power supplies, prismatic skylights, and drivers, as well as integrated systems designed to optimize energy efficiency and comfort for various indoor and outdoor applications.
Additionally, we continue to expand our solutions portfolio, including software and services, to provide a host of other economic benefits resulting from data analytics that enables the Internet of Things (“IoT”), supports the advancement of smart buildings, smart cities, and the smart grid, and allows businesses to develop custom applications to scale their operations.
Our principal sources of liquidity are operating cash flows generated primarily from our business operations, cash on hand, and various sources of borrowings.
Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or to access certain capital markets, including banks, is necessary to fund our operations and capital expenditures, pay dividends, repurchase shares, meet obligations as they become due, and maintain compliance with covenants contained in our financing agreements.On January 4, 2019, the Board of Directors (the “Board”) reduced the size of the Board from eleven members to ten following the retirement of Norman H. Wesley from the Board.
EXHIBIT 3(a)Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Acuity Brands, Inc. (formerly Acuity Brands Holdings, Inc.), dated as of September 26, 2007.