Item 1.Financial Statements The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.
1.Description of Business and Basis of Presentation Acuity Brands, Inc. (“Acuity Brands”) is the parent company of Acuity Brands Lighting, Inc. (“ABL”) and other subsidiaries (Acuity Brands, ABL, and such other subsidiaries are collectively referred to herein as the “Company”) and was incorporated in 2001 under the laws of the State of Delaware.
GAAP”) and present the financial position, results of operations, and cash flows of Acuity Brands and its wholly-owned subsidiaries.
These unaudited interim consolidated financial statements reflect all normal and recurring adjustments that are, in the opinion of management, necessary to present fairly the Company’s consolidated financial position as of February 28, 2018, the consolidated comprehensive income for the three and six months ended February 28, 2018 and 2017, and the consolidated cash flows for the six months ended February 28, 2018 and 2017.
These amounts are deemed to be provisional until disclosed otherwise, as the Company continues to gather information related to the identification and valuation of intangible and other acquired assets and liabilities.
2017-01, Clarifying the Definition of a Business (“ASU 2017-01”), which requires an evaluation of whether substantially all of the fair value of assets acquired is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or a group of similar identifiable assets.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the provisions of ASU 2017-01 and intends to implement the standard as required in fiscal 2019.
2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (“ASU 2016-15”), which is intended to reduce the diversity in practice in how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows including debt prepayment and extinguishment costs, contingent consideration payments made after a business combination, proceeds from the settlement of insurance claims, and proceeds from the settlement of corporate-owned life insurance.Also, please refer to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2017, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) on October 26, 2017 (“Form 10-K”).
Acuity Brands is the parent company of Acuity Brands Lighting, Inc. (“ABL”) and other subsidiaries (Acuity Brands, ABL, and such other subsidiaries are collectively referred to herein as the “Company”).
The Company does not consider acquisitions a critical element of its strategy but seeks opportunities to expand and enhance its portfolio of solutions, including the acquisition of Lucid Design Group, Inc. (“Lucid”) on February 12, 2018, using cash on hand.
The Company’s principal sources of liquidity are operating cash flows generated primarily from its business operations, cash on hand, and various sources of borrowings.
The ability of the Company to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or to access certain capital markets, including banks, is necessary to fund its operations and capital expenditures, pay dividends, repurchase shares, meet its obligations as they become due, and maintain compliance with covenants contained in its financing agreements.
For the first half of fiscal 2018, $20.9 million had been invested, primarily for equipment, tooling, facility enhancements, and new and enhanced information technology capabilities.
In March 2018, the Board authorized the repurchase of six million shares, which includes the remaining 0.8 million shares available for repurchase under the June 2017 authorization.
The Company's short-term cash needs are expected to include funding operations as currently planned, making anticipated capital investments, paying quarterly stockholder dividends as currently anticipated, paying principal and interest on borrowings as currently scheduled, making required contributions to its employee benefit plans, funding possible acquisitions, and potentially repurchasing up to six million shares of its outstanding common stock as authorized by the Board.In March 2018, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of six million shares, which includes the remaining 0.8 million shares available for repurchase under the June 2017 authorization.
EXHIBIT 3(a)Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Acuity Brands, Inc. (formerly Acuity Brands Holdings, Inc.), dated as of September 26, 2007.