Acuity Brands, Inc. (“Acuity Brands”) is the parent company of Acuity Brands Lighting, Inc. (“ABL”) and other subsidiaries (Acuity Brands, ABL, and such other subsidiaries are collectively referred to herein as the “Company”) and was incorporated in 2001 under the laws of the State of Delaware.
The Company’s lighting and building management solutions include devices such as luminaires, lighting controls, controllers for various building systems, power supplies, prismatic skylights, and drivers, as well as integrated systems designed to optimize energy efficiency and comfort for various indoor and outdoor applications.
These unaudited interim consolidated financial statements reflect all normal and recurring adjustments that are, in the opinion of management, necessary to present fairly the Company’s consolidated financial position as of May 31, 2018, the consolidated comprehensive income for the three and nine months ended May 31, 2018 and 2017, and the consolidated cash flows for the nine months ended May 31, 2018 and 2017.
Refer to the New Accounting Pronouncements footnote for additional information regarding retrospective reclassifications related to accounting standards adopted in the current year.
On May 1, 2018, using cash on hand and borrowings available under existing credit arrangements, the Company acquired all of the equity interests of IOTA Engineering, LLC (“IOTA”).
Lucid Design Group, Inc. On February 12, 2018, using cash on hand, the Company acquired all of the equity interests of Lucid Design Group, Inc (“Lucid”).
Identified intangible assets consist of indefinite-lived marketing-related intangibles as well as definite-lived customer-based and technology-based assets, which have a weighted average useful life of approximately 22 years.
As such, cash flows from operations for the nine months ended May 31, 2017 increased $18.7 million, with a corresponding decrease to cash flows from financing activities, compared to amounts previously reported.Also, please refer to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2017, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) on October 26, 2017 (“Form 10-K”).
Acuity Brands is the parent company of Acuity Brands Lighting, Inc. (“ABL”) and other subsidiaries (Acuity Brands, ABL, and such other subsidiaries are collectively referred to herein as the “Company”).
The Company’s principal sources of liquidity are operating cash flows generated primarily from its business operations, cash on hand, and various sources of borrowings.
The ability of the Company to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or to access certain capital markets, including banks, is necessary to fund its operations and capital expenditures, pay dividends, repurchase shares, meet its obligations as they become due, and maintain compliance with covenants contained in its financing agreements.
For the first nine months of fiscal 2018, $32.2 million had been invested, primarily for equipment, tooling, facility enhancements, and new and enhanced information technology capabilities.
The Company has repurchased a total of 2.0 million shares in fiscal 2018. interest on borrowings as currently scheduled, making required contributions to its employee benefit plans, funding possible acquisitions, and potentially repurchasing up to 5.2 million shares of its outstanding common stock as authorized by the Board.
Management believes that the Company will be able to meet its liquidity needs over the next 12 months based on its cash on hand, current projections of cash flow from operations, and borrowing availability under recently executed financing arrangements.Generally, amounts outstanding under the New Revolving Credit Facility allow for borrowings to bear interest at either the Eurocurrency Rate or the base rate at the Company's option.
Dollars, and amounts outstanding bear interest at a periodic fixed rate equal to the LIBOR for the applicable currency plus an applicable margin.