item1.txt
HP recognized the net impact of adoption as an increase to accumulated deficit by $212 million, net of tax on November 1, 2018.
Such contract assets are insignificant to HP’s Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
In accordance with the modified retrospective method transition requirements, HP has presented the financial statement line items impacted and adjusted to compare to presentation under the prior GAAP for the Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheet as of July 31, 2019 and for Consolidated Condensed Statement of Earnings for three months and nine months ended July 31, 2019.
Based on the current assessment, HP expects that the implementation of this guidance will not have a material impact on its Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
HP is currently evaluating the timing and the impact of this guidance on the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
HP will adopt this guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 and will apply the modified retrospective transition option made available in July 2018 by the FASB, whereby comparative periods will not be retrospectively presented in the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
Based on the current assessment, HP expects the adoption of this standard to have a material impact on the Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheet.
Pursuant to the adoption of ASU 2017-07 in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, HP now reclassifies market-related retirement credits and all other components (excluding the service cost component) of net periodic benefit cost to Interest and other, net in Consolidated Condensed Statement of Earnings.
As of January 31, 2019, HP completed its accounting for the tax effects of the TCJA with no material changes to the provisional amounts recorded during the measurement period.
HP’s effective tax rate was (375.4)% and 13.6% for the three months ended July 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and (36.1)% and (93.2)% for the nine months ended July 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The difference between the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 21% and HP’s effective tax rate for the three and nine months ended July 31, 2019 is primarily due to the resolution of various audits, transitional impacts of U.S. tax reform, and favorable tax rates associated with certain earnings from HP’s operations in lower-tax jurisdictions throughout the world.
For the three and nine months ended July 31, 2018 HP’s effective tax rate generally differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 23% due to the transitional impacts of U.S. tax reform and resolution of various audits and tax litigation, partially offset by favorable tax rates associated with certain earnings from HP’s operations in lower-tax jurisdictions throughout the world.
During the three and nine months ended July 31, 2019, HP recorded $1.1 billion of net tax benefits related to discrete items in the provision for taxes.
This amount included tax benefits of $1.0 billion related to various audit settlements, $75 million due to ability to utilize tax attributes, along with $57 million and $78 million for the three and nine months ended July 31, 2019, respectively, related to U.S. tax reform as a result of new guidance issued by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”).
In addition to the discrete items mentioned above, HP recorded excess tax benefits of $21 million associated with stock options, restricted stock units and performance-adjusted restricted stock units for the nine months ended July 31, 2019.
During the three and nine months ended July 31, 2018, HP recorded $7 million and $2.2 billion, respectively, of net tax benefits related to discrete items in the provision for taxes.
For the three months ended July 31, 2018, HP recorded net tax benefits of $12 million related to acquisition costs offset by other charges of $5 million.
For the nine months ended July 31, 2018, HP recorded $5.5 billion net benefit for the decrease in deferred tax liability on unremitted foreign earnings and $1.5 billion net tax benefit related to audit settlements.
In addition to the discrete items mentioned above, HP recorded excess tax benefits of $2 million and $36 million, respectively, on stock options, restricted stock units and performance-adjusted restricted stock units for the three and nine months ended July 31, 2018.
HP recognizes interest income from favorable settlements and interest expense and penalties accrued on unrecognized tax benefits in the provision for taxes in the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Earnings.
As these transfers qualify as true sales under the applicable accounting guidance, the receivables are de-recognized from the Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets upon transfer, and HP receives a payment for the receivables from the third party within a mutually agreed upon time period.
As of July 31, 2019 and October 31, 2018, HP’s contract liabilities balances were $2.0 billion and $1.9 billion, included in Other Current Liabilities and Other Non-Current Liabilities, respectively, in the Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheet.
HP classifies its marketable debt securities as available-for-sale investments within Other current assets on the Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets, including those with maturity dates beyond one year, based on their highly liquid nature and availability for use in current operations.
HP uses derivatives to offset business exposure to foreign currency and interest rate risk on expected future cash flows and on certain existing assets and liabilities.
As part of its risk management strategy, HP uses derivative instruments, primarily forward contracts, interest rate swaps, total return swaps and, at times, option contracts to hedge certain foreign currency, interest rate and, return on certain investment exposures.
HP recognizes all derivative instruments at fair value in the Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets.
HP enters into fair value hedges, such as interest rate swaps, to reduce the exposure of its debt portfolio to changes in fair value resulting from changes in interest rates by achieving a primarily U.S. dollar London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”)-based floating interest expense.
For derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges, HP recognizes the change in fair value of the derivative instrument, as well as the offsetting change in the fair value of the hedged item, in Interest and other, net on the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Earnings in the period of change.
HP uses forward contracts and at times, option contracts designated as cash flow hedges to protect against the foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in its forecasted net revenue and, to a lesser extent, cost of revenue, operating expenses, and intercompany loans denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar.
For derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges, HP initially records changes in fair value for the effective portion of the derivative instrument in accumulated other comprehensive loss as a separate component of stockholders’ deficit on the Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets and subsequently reclassifies these amounts into earnings in the period during which the hedged transaction is recognized in earnings.
HP reports the effective portion of its cash flow hedges in the same financial statement line item as changes in the fair value of the hedged item.
For derivative instruments not designated as hedging instruments, HP recognizes changes in fair value of the derivative instrument, as well as the offsetting change in the fair value of the hedged item, in Interest and other, net in the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Earnings in the period of change.
For foreign currency options and forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges, HP measures hedge effectiveness by comparing the cumulative change in fair value of the hedge contract with the cumulative change in fair value of the hedged item, both of which are based on forward rates.
HP recognizes any ineffective portion of the hedge in the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Earnings in the same period in which ineffectiveness occurs.
As disclosed in Note 8, “Financial Instruments”, HP uses interest rate swaps to mitigate some of the exposure of its debt portfolio to changes in fair value resulting from changes in interest rates by achieving a primarily U.S. dollar LIBOR-based floating interest expense.
On April 30 and May 10, 2010, the India Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (the “DRI”) issued show cause notices to Hewlett-Packard India Sales Private Limited (“HP India”), a subsidiary of HP, seven HP India employees and one former HP India employee alleging that HP India underpaid customs duties while importing products and spare parts into India and seeking to recover an aggregate of approximately $370 million, plus penalties.
On April 11, 2012, the Bangalore Commissioner of Customs issued an order on the products-related show cause notice affirming certain duties and penalties against HP India and the named individuals of approximately $386 million, of which HP India had already deposited $9 million.
Pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement, Hewlett Packard Enterprise has agreed to indemnify HP in part, based on the extent to which any liability arises from the products and spare parts of Hewlett Packard Enterprise’s businesses.
On April 17, 2015, four former-HP subsidiaries that became subsidiaries of Hewlett Packard Enterprise at the time of the Separation (Autonomy Corporation Limited, Hewlett Packard Vision BV, Autonomy Systems, Limited, and Autonomy, Inc.) initiated civil proceedings in the U.K. High Court of Justice against two members of Autonomy’s former management, Michael Lynch and Sushovan Hussain.
The separation and distribution agreement includes provisions that provide for the allocation of environmental liabilities between HP and Hewlett Packard Enterprise including certain remediation obligations; responsibilities arising from the chemical and materials composition of their respective products, their safe use and their energy consumption; obligations under product take back legislation that addresses the collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of products; and other environmental matters.
HP will generally be responsible for environmental liabilities related to the properties and other assets, including products, allocated to HP under the separation and distribution agreement and other ancillary agreements.
Under these agreements, HP will indemnify Hewlett Packard Enterprise for liabilities for specified ongoing remediation projects, subject to certain limitations, and Hewlett Packard Enterprise has a payment obligation for a specified portion of the cost of those remediation projects.
HP is indemnified in whole or in part by Hewlett Packard Enterprise for liabilities arising from the assets assigned to Hewlett Packard Enterprise and for certain environmental matters as detailed in the separation and distribution agreement.
Under the separation and distribution agreement, HP agreed to indemnify Hewlett Packard Enterprise, each of its subsidiaries and each of their respective directors, officers and employees from and against all liabilities relating to, arising out of or resulting from, among other matters, the liabilities allocated to HP as part of the Separation.
Hewlett Packard Enterprise similarly agreed to indemnify HP, each of its subsidiaries and each of their respective directors, officers and employees from and against all liabilities relating to, arising out of or resulting from, among other matters, the liabilities allocated to Hewlett Packard Enterprise as part of the Separation.
In connection with the Separation, HP entered into the tax matters agreement (“TMA”) with Hewlett Packard Enterprise, effective on November 1, 2015.
The TMA provides that HP and Hewlett Packard Enterprise will share certain pre-Separation income tax liabilities.
The table below presents the preliminary purchase price allocation for HP's acquisition as of November 1, 2018 and reflects various preliminary fair value estimates and analyses, including preliminary work performed by third-party valuation specialists, which are subject to change within the measurement period as valuations are finalized.
HP expects to continue to obtain information to assist it in determining the fair value of the net assets acquired at the acquisition date during the measurement period.


item2.txt
For the three months ended July 31, 2019, total net revenue remained flat (increased 2% on a constant currency basis) as compared to the prior-year period.
For the nine months ended July 31, 2019, total net revenue increased 1% (increased 2% on a constant currency basis) as compared to the prior-year period.
The increase in net revenue was primarily driven by growth in Desktops, Notebooks and Consumer Printing Hardware, partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency impacts and a decline in Supplies.
Personal Systems net revenue increased 3.1% (increased 5.8% on a constant currency basis) for the three months ended July 31, 2019 as compared to the prior-year period.
The net revenue increase was driven by a 4.7% increase in unit volume, partially offset by a 1.5% decrease in average selling prices (“ASPs”), as compared to the prior-year period.
Consequently, Commercial revenue increased 9.9% and Consumer revenue decreased 11.5% for the three months ended July 31, 2019 as compared to the prior-year period.
Net revenue increased 8.4% in Desktops and 3.6% in Workstations and decreased 0.1% in Notebooks as compared to the prior-year period.
Personal Systems earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue increased by 1.7 percentage points for the three months ended July 31, 2019 as compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to an increase in gross margin, partially offset by an increase in operating expenses.
Personal Systems net revenue increased 2.4% (increased 4.6% on a constant currency basis) for the nine months ended July 31, 2019 as compared to the prior-year period.
The net revenue increase was driven by a 2.3% increase in ASPs, as compared to the prior-year period, primarily driven by higher pricing and positive mix shifts, partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency impacts.
Consequently, Commercial revenue increased 6.6% and Consumer revenue decreased 6.0% for the nine months ended July 31, 2019 as compared to the prior-year period.
Personal Systems earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue increased by 1.0 percentage points for the nine months ended July 31, 2019 as compared to the prior-year period.
Printing net revenue decreased 5.3% (decreased 4.5% on a constant currency basis) for the three months ended July 31, 2019 as compared to the prior-year period.
Net revenue for Supplies decreased 7.1% as compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to demand weakness.
Net revenue for Commercial Hardware increased by 2.7% as compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to the acquisition of the Apogee group.
Net revenue for Consumer Hardware decreased 10.1% as compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to a 10.1% decrease in printer unit volume.
Printing earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue decreased by 0.4 percentage points for the three months ended July 31, 2019 as compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to lower Supplies revenue.
Printing net revenue decreased 2.7% (decreased 2.3% on a constant currency basis) for the nine months ended July 31, 2019 as compared to the prior-year period.
Net revenue for Supplies decreased 4.2% as compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to demand weakness.
Net revenue for Commercial Hardware increased by 3.6% as compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to the acquisition of the Apogee group.
Printing earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue increased by 0.2 percentage points for the nine months ended July 31, 2019 as compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to decrease in operating expenses, partially offset by decline in gross margin.


item4.txt
The Exhibit Index beginning on page 61 of this report sets forth a list of exhibits.


part2.txt
Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described in Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2018, Part II, Item 1A, “Risk Factors” in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended January 31, 2019, and Part II, Item 1A, “Risk Factors” in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended April 30, 2019, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of our common and capital stock.
For example, we may fail to develop innovative products and services, maintain the manufacturing quality of our products, manage our global, multi-tier distribution network, limit potential misuse of pricing programs by our channel partners, adapt to new or changing marketplaces or successfully market new products and services, any of which could adversely affect our business and financial condition.
We compete on the basis of our technology, innovation, performance, price, quality, reliability, brand, reputation, distribution, range of products and services, ease of use of our products, account relationships, customer training, service and support and security.
If our products, services, support and cost structure do not enable us to compete successfully, our results of operations and business prospects could be harmed.
As a result, we may invest less in certain areas of our business than our competitors, and our competitors may have greater financial, technical and marketing resources available to their products and services compared to the resources allocated to our competing products and services.
Even if we maintain or increase market share for a particular product, its financial performance could decline because the product is in a maturing industry or market segment or contains technology that is becoming obsolete.
We expect this competition will continue, and it may negatively impact our financial performance, particularly if large commercial customers purchase competing products instead of HP products.
Our business and financial performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions and the demand for technology products and services in the markets in which we compete.
Political developments impacting international trade, including continued uncertainty surrounding Brexit, trade disputes and increased tariffs, particularly between the United States and China, may negatively impact markets and cause weaker macroeconomic conditions or drive political or national sentiment weakening demand for our products and services.


