item1.txt
HP has recognized the net impact of adoption as an increase to accumulated deficit by $212 million, net of tax.
Such contract assets are insignificant to HP’s Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
In accordance with the modified retrospective method transition requirements, HP has presented the financial statement line items impacted and adjusted to compare to presentation under the prior GAAP for the three months ended January 31, 2019.
HP is currently evaluating the timing and the impact of this guidance on the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
HP is currently evaluating the timing and the impact of this guidance on the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
Based on the current assessment, HP expects the adoption of this standard to have a material impact on the Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheet.
Pursuant to the adoption of ASU 2017-07 in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, HP now reclassifies market-related retirement credits and all other components (excluding the service cost component) of net periodic benefit cost to Interest and other, net in Consolidated Condensed Statement of Earnings.
During the three months ended January 31, 2019, HP contributed $11 million to its non-U.S. pension plans, paid $6 million to cover benefit payments to U.S. non-qualified plan participants, and paid $2 million to cover benefit claims under HP’s post-retirement benefit plans.
As of January 31, 2019, HP has completed its accounting for the tax effects of the TCJA with no material changes to the provisional amounts recorded during the measurement period.
HP’s effective tax rate was 10.8% and (114.1)% for the three months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The difference between the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 21% and HP’s effective tax rate for the three months ended January 31, 2019 is primarily due to favorable tax rates associated with certain earnings from HP’s operations in lower-tax jurisdictions throughout the world.
For the three months ended January 31, 2018 HP’s effective tax rate generally differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 23% due to the impact of U.S. tax reform, and favorable tax rates associated with certain earnings from HP’s operations in lower-tax jurisdictions throughout the world.
During the three months ended January 31, 2019, HP recorded $9 million of net tax benefits related to discrete items in the provision for taxes.
During the three months ended January 31, 2018, HP recorded $1.1 billion of net tax benefits related to discrete items in the provision for taxes.
As of January 31, 2018, HP had not yet completed its analysis of the full impact of TCJA however HP recorded a provisional tax benefit of $1.1 billion related to $5.5 billion net benefit for the decrease in our deferred tax liability on unremitted foreign earnings, partially offset by $3.2 billion net expense for the repatriation tax payable in installments over eight years and $1.2 billion net expense for remeasurement of our deferred tax assets and liabilities for the revaluation of our deferred assets and liabilities to the new U.S. tax rate of 21%.
HP recognizes interest income from favorable settlements and interest expense and penalties accrued on unrecognized tax benefits in the provision for taxes in the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Earnings.
As these transfers qualify as true sales under the applicable accounting guidance, the receivables are derecognized from the Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets upon transfer, and HP receives a payment for the receivables from the third party within a mutually agreed upon time period.
HP uses derivatives to offset business exposure to foreign currency and interest rate risk on expected future cash flows and on certain existing assets and liabilities.
As part of its risk management strategy, HP uses derivative instruments, primarily forward contracts, interest rate swaps, total return swaps and, at times, option contracts to hedge certain foreign currency, interest rate and, return on certain investment exposures.
HP may designate its derivative contracts as fair value hedges or cash flow hedges and classifies the cash flows with the activities that correspond to the underlying hedged items.
HP recognizes all derivative instruments at fair value in the Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets.
To further limit credit risk, HP has collateral security agreements that allow HP’s custodian to hold collateral from, or require HP to post collateral to, counterparties when aggregate derivative fair values exceed contractually established thresholds which are generally based on the credit ratings of HP and its counterparties.
HP enters into fair value hedges, such as interest rate swaps, to reduce the exposure of its debt portfolio to changes in fair value resulting from changes in interest rates by achieving a primarily U.S. dollar London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”)-based floating interest expense.
For derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges, HP recognizes the change in fair value of the derivative instrument, as well as the offsetting change in the fair value of the hedged item, in Interest and other, net on the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Earnings in the period of change.
HP uses forward contracts and at times, option contracts designated as cash flow hedges to protect against the foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in its forecasted net revenue and, to a lesser extent, cost of revenue, operating expenses, and intercompany loans denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar.
For derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges, HP initially records changes in fair value for the effective portion of the derivative instrument in accumulated other comprehensive loss as a separate component of stockholders’ deficit on the Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets and subsequently reclassifies these amounts into earnings in the period during which the hedged transaction is recognized in earnings.
HP reports the effective portion of its cash flow hedges in the same financial statement line item as changes in the fair value of the hedged item.
For derivative instruments not designated as hedging instruments, HP recognizes changes in fair value of the derivative instrument, as well as the offsetting change in the fair value of the hedged item, in Interest and other, net in the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Earnings in the period of change.
For interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges, HP measures hedge effectiveness by offsetting the change in fair value of the hedged item with the change in fair value of the derivative.
For foreign currency options and forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges, HP measures hedge effectiveness by comparing the cumulative change in fair value of the hedge contract with the cumulative change in fair value of the hedged item, both of which are based on forward rates.
HP recognizes any ineffective portion of the hedge in the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Earnings in the same period in which ineffectiveness occurs.
As disclosed in Note 8, “Financial Instruments”, HP uses interest rate swaps to mitigate some of the exposure of its debt portfolio to changes in fair value resulting from changes in interest rates by achieving a primarily U.S. dollar LIBOR-based floating interest expense.
During the three months ended January 31, 2019, HP executed share repurchases of 32 million shares and settled total shares for $0.7 billion.
During the three months ended January 31, 2018, HP executed share repurchases of 20 million shares and settled total shares for $0.5 billion.
On April 30 and May 10, 2010, the India Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (the “DRI”) issued show cause notices to Hewlett-Packard India Sales Private Limited (“HP India”), a subsidiary of HP, seven HP India employees and one former HP India employee alleging that HP India underpaid customs duties while importing products and spare parts into India and seeking to recover an aggregate of approximately $370 million, plus penalties.
On April 11, 2012, the Bangalore Commissioner of Customs issued an order on the products-related show cause notice affirming certain duties and penalties against HP India and the named individuals of approximately $386 million, of which HP India had already deposited $9 million.
On April 20, 2012, the Commissioner issued an order on the parts-related show cause notice affirming certain duties and penalties against HP India and certain of the named individuals of approximately $17 million, of which HP India had already deposited $7 million.
On January 24, 2013, the Customs Tribunal ordered HP India to deposit an additional $24 million against the products order, which HP India deposited in March 2013.
Pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement, Hewlett Packard Enterprise has agreed to indemnify HP in part, based on the extent to which any liability arises from the products and spare parts of Hewlett Packard Enterprise’s businesses.
The separation and distribution agreement includes provisions that provide for the allocation of environmental liabilities between HP and Hewlett Packard Enterprise including certain remediation obligations; responsibilities arising from the chemical and materials composition of their respective products, their safe use and their energy consumption; obligations under product take back legislation that addresses the collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of products; and other environmental matters.
HP will generally be responsible for environmental liabilities related to the properties and other assets, including products, allocated to HP under the separation and distribution agreement and other ancillary agreements.
Under these agreements, HP will indemnify Hewlett Packard Enterprise for liabilities for specified ongoing remediation projects, subject to certain limitations, and Hewlett Packard Enterprise has a payment obligation for a specified portion of the cost of those remediation projects.
In addition, HP will share with Hewlett Packard Enterprise other environmental liabilities as set forth in the separation and distribution agreement.
HP is indemnified in whole or in part by Hewlett Packard Enterprise for liabilities arising from the assets assigned to Hewlett Packard Enterprise and for certain environmental matters as detailed in the separation and distribution agreement.
Hewlett Packard Enterprise similarly agreed to indemnify HP, each of its subsidiaries and each of their respective directors, officers and employees from and against all liabilities relating to, arising out of or resulting from, among other matters, the liabilities allocated to Hewlett Packard Enterprise as part of the Separation.
The TMA provides that HP and Hewlett Packard Enterprise will share certain pre-Separation income tax liabilities.
The table below presents the preliminary purchase price allocation for HP's acquisition as of November 1, 2018 and reflects various preliminary fair value estimates and analyses, including preliminary work performed by third-party valuation specialists, which are subject to change within the measurement period as valuations are finalized.
HP expects to continue to obtain information to assist it in determining the fair value of the net assets acquired at the acquisition date during the measurement period.


item2.txt
In instances when revenue is derived from sales of third-party vendor products or services, we record revenue on a gross basis when we are a principal in the transaction and on a net basis when we are acting as an agent between the customer and the vendor.
For the three months ended January 31, 2019, total net revenue increased 1% (increased 2% on a constant currency basis) as compared to the prior-year period.
U.S. net revenue decreased 2% to $4.9 billion, while net revenue from international operations increased 3% to $9.8 billion.
The increase in net revenue was primarily driven by growth in Notebooks and Printing Hardware, partially offset by decline in Supplies and Desktops, and unfavorable foreign currency impacts.
Interest and other, net expense increased by $18 million for the three months ended January 31, 2019, as compared to the prior-year period, primarily driven by lower market-related retirement credits, partially offset by lower interest expense due to reduction of debt in March 2018.
As of January 31, 2018, we had not yet completed our analysis of the full impact of TCJA however we recorded a provisional tax benefit of $1.1 billion related to $5.5 billion net benefit for the decrease in our deferred tax liability on unremitted foreign earnings, partially offset by $3.2 billion net expense for the repatriation tax payable in installments over eight years and $1.2 billion net expense for remeasurement of our deferred tax assets and liabilities for the revaluation of our deferred assets and liabilities to the new US rate of 21%.
Personal Systems net revenue increased 2.3% (increased 3.5% on a constant currency basis) for the three months ended January 31, 2019 as compared to the prior-year period.
The net revenue increase was primarily due to growth in Notebooks and Workstations, partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency impacts and a decline in Desktops due to component availability constraints.
The net revenue increase was driven by a 5.5% increase in ASPs, partially offset by a 3.0% decrease in unit volume, as compared to the prior-year period.
Consumer and Commercial revenue increased 1.3% and 2.8%, respectively, for the three months ended January 31, 2019 as compared to the prior-year period, driven by growth in Notebooks, primarily as a result of higher ASPs.
Net revenue decreased 3.3% in Desktops and increased 5.8% in Notebooks and 3.5% in Workstations as compared to the prior-year period.
Personal Systems earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue increased by 0.7 percentage points for the three months ended January 31, 2019 as compared to the prior-year period.
Operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue decreased primarily due to operating expense management.
Printing net revenue decreased 0.4% (decreased 0.7% on a constant currency basis) for the three months ended January 31, 2019 as compared to the prior-year period.
The decline in net revenue was primarily driven by Supplies, partially offset by an increase in hardware, services and solutions revenue, and favorable foreign currency impacts.
Net revenue for Supplies decreased 2.5% as compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to demand weakness.
Printer unit volume increased 2.6% while ASPs decreased 2.7% as compared to the prior-year period.
Net revenue for Consumer Hardware increased 1.6% as compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to a 2.4% increase in printer unit volume partially offset by 1.2% decrease in ASPs. The unit volume increase was primarily driven by the LaserJet Home business.
Printing earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue increased by 0.5 percentage points for the three months ended January 31, 2019 as compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to decrease in operating expenses, partially offset by decline in gross margin.
Compared to the corresponding period in fiscal year 2018, net cash provided by operating activities decreased by $134 million for the three months ended January 31, 2019, primarily due to working capital management activities.


item4.txt
The foregoing description does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the amendment to the credit facility, which is filed as Exhibit 10(k)(k) hereto.


part2.txt
We compete on the basis of our technology, innovation, performance, price, quality, reliability, brand, reputation, distribution, range of products and services, ease of use of our products, account relationships, customer training, service and support and security.
As a result, we may invest less in certain areas of our business than our competitors, and our competitors may have greater financial, technical and marketing resources available to their products and services compared to the resources allocated to our competing products and services.
Even if we are able to maintain or increase market share for a particular product, its financial performance could decline because the product is in a maturing industry or market segment or contains technology that is becoming obsolete.
We expect this competition will continue, and it may negatively impact our financial performance, particularly if large commercial customers purchase competing products instead of HP products.
During the first quarter of 2019, HP discovered that its newly acquired subsidiary processed two service calls during November 2018, shortly after the acquisition, for toner replacement on behalf of Bank Saderat plc, with which it had a legacy contract.
HP has disclosed these transactions to the relevant authorities.


