item1.txt
HP expects that the implementation of this guidance will not have a material impact on its Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
HP expects that the implementation of this guidance will not have a material impact on its Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
HP expects that the implementation of this guidance will not have a material impact on its Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
HP estimated that it would incur aggregate pre-tax charges of approximately $500 million relating to labor and non-labor actions.
HP now expects approximately 4,500 to 5,000 employees to exit by the end of fiscal year 2019, subject to certain jurisdictional labor law requirements.
HP estimates that it will now incur aggregate pre-tax charges of approximately $700 million relating to labor and non-labor actions.
During fiscal year 2018, HP anticipates making contributions of approximately $33 million to its non-U.S. pension plans, including an increase of $9 million related to the acquisition of Samsung’s printer business, approximately $33 million to its U.S. non-qualified plan participants and approximately $7 million to cover benefit claims under HP’s post-retirement benefit plans.
During the six months ended April 30, 2018, HP contributed $16 million to its non-U.S. pension plans and paid $20 million to cover benefit payments to U.S. non-qualified plan participants.
As of April 30, 2018, there was $282 million of unrecognized pre-tax stock-based compensation expense related to non-vested restricted stock units, which HP expects to recognize over the remaining weighted-average vesting period of 1.4 years.
As of April 30, 2018, there was $3 million of unrecognized pre-tax, stock-based compensation expense related to unvested stock options, which HP expects to recognize over the remaining weighted-average vesting period of 0.4 years.
In connection with the Separation, HP entered into the tax matters agreement (“TMA”) with Hewlett Packard Enterprise, effective on November 1, 2015.
The TMA provides that HP and Hewlett Packard Enterprise will share certain pre-Separation income tax liabilities.
Upon further analysis of certain aspects of the TCJA and refinement of the calculations during the three months ended April 30, 2018, HP adjusted the provisional tax payable by recording a tax expense of $336 million primarily comprised of a tax expense of $379 million for reduction to its deferred tax assets and a tax benefit of $43 million as an adjustment to the provisional deemed repatriation tax amount due to further analysis and additional guidance.
During the three months ended April 30, 2018, HP remeasured its deferred taxes to reflect the reduced rate that will apply when these deferred taxes are settled or realized in future periods.
During the three and six months ended April 30, 2018, HP recorded $1.1 billion and $2.2 billion, respectively, of net tax benefits related to discrete items in the provision for taxes.
However, for the three months ended January 31, 2018, HP recorded a provisional tax benefit of $1.1 billion related to $5.5 billion net benefit for the decrease in our deferred tax liability on unremitted foreign earnings, partially offset by $3.2 billion net expense for the deemed repatriation tax payable in installments over eight years and $1.2 billion net expense for remeasurement of its deferred tax assets and liabilities for the remeasurement of its deferred assets and liabilities to the new U.S. statutory tax rate.
In addition, for the three months ended April 30, 2018, HP recorded provisional tax expense of $379 million related to remeasurement of its U.S. deferred tax assets that are expected to be realized at a lower rate and a $43 million tax benefit as an adjustment to the provisional deemed repatriation tax amount due to further analysis and additional guidance.
HP recorded net benefit of $1.4 billion in the quarter due to the completion of the various audits, the resolution of certain tax litigations and associated reserve redeterminations.
During the three and six months ended April 30, 2017, HP recorded $4 million and $5 million, respectively, of net tax benefit related to discrete items in the provision for taxes.
As of April 30, 2018, the amount of unrecognized tax benefits was $8.0 billion, of which up to $1.7 billion would affect HP’s effective tax rate if realized.
HP uses derivatives to offset business exposure to foreign currency and interest rate risk on expected future cash flows and on certain existing assets and liabilities.
As part of its risk management strategy, HP uses derivative instruments, primarily forward contracts, interest rate swaps, total return swaps and, at times, option contracts to hedge certain foreign currency, interest rate and, to a lesser extent, equity exposures.
HP recognizes all derivative instruments at fair value in the Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets.
To further limit credit risk, HP has collateral security agreements that allow HP to hold collateral from, or require HP to post collateral to, counterparties when aggregate derivative fair values exceed contractually established thresholds which are generally based on the credit ratings of HP and its counterparties.
HP enters into fair value hedges, such as interest rate swaps, to reduce the exposure of its debt portfolio to changes in fair value resulting from changes in interest rates by achieving a primarily U.S. dollar London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”)-based floating interest expense.
For derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges, HP recognizes the change in fair value of the derivative instrument, as well as the offsetting change in the fair value of the hedged item, in Interest and other, net on the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Earnings in the period of change.
HP uses forward contracts and at times, option contracts designated as cash flow hedges to protect against the foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in its forecasted net revenue and, to a lesser extent, cost of revenue, operating expenses, and intercompany loans denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar.
For derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges, HP initially records changes in fair value for the effective portion of the derivative instrument in accumulated other comprehensive loss as a separate component of stockholders’ deficit on the Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets and subsequently reclassifies these amounts into earnings in the period during which the hedged transaction is recognized in earnings.
HP reports the effective portion of its cash flow hedges in the same financial statement line item as the hedged transaction.
For derivative instruments not designated as hedging instruments, HP recognizes changes in fair value of the derivative instrument in Interest and other, net in the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Earnings in the period of change.
For interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges, HP measures hedge effectiveness by offsetting the change in fair value of the hedged item with the change in fair value of the derivative.
For foreign currency options and forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges, HP measures hedge effectiveness by comparing the cumulative change in fair value of the hedge contract with the cumulative change in fair value of the hedged item, both of which are based on forward rates.
In March 2018, HP terminated several interest rate swaps with a notional amount of $1.5 billion that were de-designated as fair value hedges of certain fixed rate debt securities.
As disclosed in Note 9, “Financial Instruments”, HP uses interest rate swaps to mitigate some of the exposure of its debt portfolio to changes in fair value resulting from changes in interest rates by achieving a primarily U.S. dollar LIBOR-based floating interest expense.
On November 1, 2015, HP’s Board of Directors authorized HP to borrow up to a total outstanding principal balance of $4.0 billion, or the equivalent in foreign currencies, for the use and benefit of HP and HP’s subsidiaries, by the issuance of commercial paper or through the execution of promissory notes, loan agreements, letters of credit, agreements for lines of credit or overdraft facilities.
During the three and six months ended April 30, 2018, HP executed share repurchases of 35 million shares and 56 million shares and settled total shares for $0.8 billion and $1.3 billion, respectively.
During the three and six months ended April 30, 2017, HP executed share repurchases of 13 million shares and 39 million shares and settled total shares for $0.2 billion and $0.6 billion, respectively.
On April 11, 2012, the Bangalore Commissioner of Customs issued an order on the products-related show cause notice affirming certain duties and penalties against HP India and the named individuals of approximately $386 million, of which HP India had already deposited $9 million.
On April 20, 2012, the Commissioner issued an order on the parts-related show cause notice affirming certain duties and penalties against HP India and certain of the named individuals of approximately $17 million, of which HP India had already deposited $7 million.
After the order, HP India deposited an additional $3 million in connection with the parts-related show cause notice so as to avoid certain penalties.
Pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement, Hewlett Packard Enterprise has agreed to indemnify HP in part, based on the extent to which any liability arises from the products and spare parts of Hewlett Packard Enterprise’s businesses.
On April 17, 2015, four former-HP subsidiaries that became subsidiaries of Hewlett Packard Enterprise at the time of the Separation (Autonomy Corporation Limited, Hewlett Packard Vision BV, Autonomy Systems, Limited, and Autonomy, Inc.) initiated civil proceedings in the U.K. High Court of Justice against two members of Autonomy’s former management, Michael Lynch and Sushovan Hussain.
The separation and distribution agreement includes provisions that provide for the allocation of environmental liabilities between HP and Hewlett Packard Enterprise including certain remediation obligations; responsibilities arising from the chemical and materials composition of their respective products, their safe use and their energy consumption; obligations under product take back legislation that addresses the collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of products; and other environmental matters.
HP will generally be responsible for environmental liabilities related to the properties and other assets, including products, allocated to HP under the separation and distribution agreement and other ancillary agreements.
Under these agreements, HP will indemnify Hewlett Packard Enterprise for liabilities for specified ongoing remediation projects, subject to certain limitations, and Hewlett Packard Enterprise has a payment obligation for a specified portion of the cost of those remediation projects.
In addition, HP will share with Hewlett Packard Enterprise other environmental liabilities as set forth in the separation and distribution agreement.
HP is indemnified in whole or in part by Hewlett Packard Enterprise for liabilities arising from the assets assigned to Hewlett Packard Enterprise and for certain environmental matters as detailed in the separation and distribution agreement.
Under the separation and distribution agreement, HP agreed to indemnify Hewlett Packard Enterprise, each of its subsidiaries and each of their respective directors, officers and employees from and against all liabilities relating to, arising out of or resulting from, among other matters, the liabilities allocated to HP as part of the Separation.
Hewlett Packard Enterprise similarly agreed to indemnify HP, each of its subsidiaries and each of their respective directors, officers and employees from and against all liabilities relating to, arising out of or resulting from, among other matters, the liabilities allocated to Hewlett Packard Enterprise as part of the Separation.
HP expects Hewlett Packard Enterprise to fully perform under the terms of the separation and distribution agreement.
The table below presents the preliminary purchase price allocation for HP's acquisition as of November 1, 2017 and reflects various preliminary fair value estimates and analyses, including preliminary work performed by third-party valuation specialists, which are subject to change within the measurement period as valuations are finalized.
HP expects to continue to obtain information to assist it in determining the fair value of the net assets acquired at the acquisition date during the measurement period.


item2.txt
For the three months ended April 30, 2018, our gross margin increased 0.1 percentage points as compared to the prior-year period.
For the six months ended April 30, 2018, our gross margin remained flat, as compared to the prior-year period.
Selling, general and administrative expense increased 15.6% and 15.3% for the three and six months ended April 30, 2018, respectively, as compared to the prior-year periods, primarily driven by the acquisition of Samsung’s printer business and incremental go-to-market investments to support revenue growth.
Interest and other, net expense increased by $817 million and $804 million for the three and six months ended April 30, 2018, respectively, as compared to the prior-year periods, primarily due to reversal of indemnification receivables from Hewlett Packard Enterprise pertaining to various audit settlements, and loss on extinguishment of debt.
During the three and six months ended April 30, 2018, we recorded $1.1 billion and $2.2 billion, respectively, of net tax benefits related to discrete items in the provision for taxes.
However, for the three months ended January 31, 2018, we recorded a provisional tax benefit of $1.1 billion related to $5.5 billion net benefit for the decrease in our deferred tax liability on unremitted foreign earnings, partially offset by $3.2 billion net expense for the deemed repatriation tax payable in installments over eight years and $1.2 billion net expense for remeasurement of our deferred tax assets and liabilities for the revaluation of our deferred assets and liabilities to the new U.S. statutory tax rate.
During the three and six months ended April 30, 2017, we recorded $4 million and $5 million , respectively, of net tax benefits related to discrete items in the provision for taxes for continuing operations.
Personal Systems net revenue increased 14.5% (increased 10.7% on a constant currency basis) for the three months ended April 30, 2018 as compared to the prior-year period.
The net revenue increase was primarily due to growth in Notebooks and Desktops and favorable foreign currency impacts.
The net revenue increase was driven by a 7.0% increase in both unit volume and ASPs as compared to the prior-year period.
Consumer revenue increased 10.5% for the three months ended April 30, 2018 as compared to the prior-year period, driven by growth in Notebooks and Desktops as a result of higher unit volume combined with higher ASPs. Commercial revenue increased 16.4% as compared to the prior-year period, driven by growth in Notebooks, Desktops and Workstations.
Personal Systems earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue increased by 0.6 percentage points for the three months ended April 30, 2018 as compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to an increase in gross margin.
Personal Systems net revenue increased 14.7% (increased 11.9% on a constant currency basis) for the six months ended April 30, 2018 as compared to the prior-year period.
The net revenue increase was driven by a 7.1% increase in both unit volume and ASPs as compared to the prior-year period.
Consumer revenue increased 11.7% for the six months ended April 30, 2018 as compared to the prior-year period, driven by growth in Notebooks and Desktops as a result of higher unit volume combined with higher ASPs. Commercial revenue increased 16.3% as compared to the prior-year period, driven by growth in Notebooks, Desktops and Workstations.
Personal Systems earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue increased by 0.2 percentage points for the six months ended April 30, 2018 as compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to a decrease in operating expenses.
Printing net revenue increased 10.9% (increased 8.7% on a constant currency basis) for the three months ended April 30, 2018 as compared to the prior-year period.
Net revenue for Supplies increased 7.7% as compared to the prior-year period, including the acquisition of Samsung’s printer business.
Printer ASPs increased primarily due to favorable foreign currency impacts, partially offset by the dilution impact from Samsung-branded low-end A4 products.
Net revenue for Commercial Hardware increased by 26.7% as compared to the prior-year period, including revenue from Samsung-branded printers, LaserJet and PageWide printers.
Net revenue for Consumer Hardware increased 2.8% as compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to a 3.7% increase in printer unit volume, whereas the ASPs remained roughly flat.
Printing net revenue increased 12.2% (increased 10.4% on a constant currency basis) for the six months ended April 30, 2018 as compared to the prior-year period.
The increase in net revenue was primarily driven by increase in Supplies and Hardware revenue, and favorable foreign currency impacts.
Printer ASPs increased primarily due to a mix shift to higher-end printers and favorable foreign currency impacts, partially offset by the dilution impact from Samsung-branded low-end A4 products.
Net revenue for Commercial Hardware increased 27.1% as compared to the prior-year period, including revenue from Samsung-branded printers, LaserJet and PageWide printers and 3D printers.
Net revenue for Consumer Hardware increased 6.9% as compared to the prior-year period due to a 5.3% increase in printer unit volume and a 2.3% increase in ASPs. The unit volume increase was primarily driven by InkJet Home business.


item4.txt
The Exhibit Index beginning on page 57 of this report sets forth a list of exhibits.


part2.txt
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
The registrant agrees to furnish to the Commission supplementally upon request a copy of (1) any instrument with respect to long-term debt not filed herewith as to which the total amount of securities authorized thereunder does not exceed 10% of the total assets of the registrant and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis and (2) any omitted schedules to any material plan of acquisition, disposition or reorganization set forth above.


