item1.txt
HP is currently evaluating the timing and the impact of this guidance on the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
HP is currently evaluating the timing and the impact of this guidance on the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
HP is currently evaluating the timing and the impact of this guidance on the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
HP is currently evaluating the timing and the impact of this guidance on the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
As of January 31, 2018, there was $350 million of unrecognized pre-tax stock-based compensation expense related to non-vested restricted stock units, which HP expects to recognize over the remaining weighted-average vesting period of 1.5 years.
In January 2018, the Board approved an amendment and restatement of the HP’s 2004 Stock Incentive Plan, which included retiring 80 million shares from the plan’s share reserves.
In connection with the Separation, HP entered into the tax matters agreement (“TMA”) with Hewlett Packard Enterprise, effective on November 1, 2015, that governs the rights and obligations of HP and Hewlett Packard Enterprise for certain pre-Separation tax liabilities.
The TMA provides that HP and Hewlett Packard Enterprise will share certain pre-Separation income tax liabilities.
In certain jurisdictions, HP and Hewlett Packard Enterprise have joint and several liability for past income tax liabilities and accordingly, HP could be legally liable under applicable tax law for such liabilities and required to make additional tax payments.
In addition, if the distribution of Hewlett Packard Enterprise’s common shares to the HP stockholders is determined to be taxable, Hewlett Packard Enterprise and HP would share the tax liability equally, unless the taxability of the distribution is the direct result of action taken by either Hewlett Packard Enterprise or HP subsequent to the distribution, in which case the party causing the distribution to be taxable would be responsible for any taxes imposed on the distribution.
Upon completion of the Separation on November 1, 2015, HP recorded income tax indemnification receivables from Hewlett Packard Enterprise for certain income tax liabilities that HP is jointly and severally liable for, but for which it is indemnified by Hewlett Packard Enterprise under the TMA.
The actual amount that Hewlett Packard Enterprise may be obligated to pay HP could vary depending on the outcome of certain unresolved tax matters, which may not be resolved for several years.
During the three months ended January 31, 2018, in addition to the discrete items mentioned above, HP recorded excess tax benefits of $28.0 million, on stock options, restricted stock units and performance adjusted restricted stock units, which are reflected in the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Earnings as a component of the provision for income taxes as a result of the early adoption in fiscal 2017 of ASU 2016-09 -“Improvements to Employee Share- Based Payment Accounting”.
HP continues to record its tax liabilities related to uncertain tax positions and certain liabilities for which it has joint and several liability with Hewlett Packard Enterprise.
As these transfers qualify as true sales under the applicable accounting guidance, the receivables are derecognized from the Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets upon transfer, and HP receives a payment for the receivables from the third party within a mutually agreed upon time period.
HP uses derivatives to offset business exposure to foreign currency and interest rate risk on expected future cash flows and on certain existing assets and liabilities.
HP may designate its derivative contracts as fair value hedges or cash flow hedges and classifies the cash flows with the activities that correspond to the underlying hedged items.
HP recognizes all derivative instruments at fair value in the Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets.
To further limit credit risk, HP has collateral security agreements that allow HP to hold collateral from, or require HP to post collateral to, counterparties when aggregate derivative fair values exceed contractually established thresholds which are generally based on the credit ratings of HP and its counterparties.
HP enters into fair value hedges, such as interest rate swaps, to reduce the exposure of its debt portfolio to changes in fair value resulting from changes in interest rates by achieving a primarily U.S. dollar London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”)-based floating interest expense.
For derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges, HP recognizes the change in fair value of the derivative instrument, as well as the offsetting change in the fair value of the hedged item, in Interest and other, net on the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Earnings in the period of change.
HP uses forward contracts and at times, option contracts designated as cash flow hedges to protect against the foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in its forecasted net revenue and, to a lesser extent, cost of revenue, operating expenses, and intercompany loans denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar.
For derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges, HP initially records changes in fair value for the effective portion of the derivative instrument in accumulated other comprehensive loss as a separate component of stockholders’ deficit on the Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets and subsequently reclassifies these amounts into earnings in the period during which the hedged transaction is recognized in earnings.
HP reports the effective portion of its cash flow hedges in the same financial statement line item as changes in the fair value of the hedged item.
For derivative instruments not designated as hedging instruments, HP recognizes changes in fair value of the derivative instrument, as well as the offsetting change in the fair value of the hedged item, in Interest and other, net in the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Earnings in the period of change.
For interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges, HP measures hedge effectiveness by offsetting the change in fair value of the hedged item with the change in fair value of the derivative.
For foreign currency options and forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges, HP measures hedge effectiveness by comparing the cumulative change in fair value of the hedge contract with the cumulative change in fair value of the hedged item, both of which are based on forward rates.
As disclosed in Note 9, “Financial Instruments”, HP uses interest rate swaps to mitigate some of the exposure of its debt portfolio to changes in fair value resulting from changes in interest rates by achieving a primarily U.S. dollar LIBOR-based floating interest expense.
On November 1, 2015, HP’s Board of Directors authorized HP to borrow up to a total outstanding principal balance of $4.0 billion, or the equivalent in foreign currencies, for the use and benefit of HP and HP’s subsidiaries, by the issuance of commercial paper or through the execution of promissory notes, loan agreements, letters of credit, agreements for lines of credit or overdraft facilities.
During the three months ended January 31, 2018, HP executed share repurchases of 20 million shares.
During the three months ended January 31, 2018, HP settled total shares for $0.5 billion.
During the three months ended January 31, 2017, HP executed share repurchases of 27 million shares and settled total shares for $0.4 billion.
Reprobel, a cooperative society with the authority to collect and distribute the remuneration for reprography to Belgian copyright holders, requested by extrajudicial means that HP amend certain copyright levy declarations submitted for inkjet MFDs sold in Belgium from January 2005 to December 2009 to enable it to collect copyright levies calculated based on the generally higher copying speed when the MFDs are operated in draft print mode rather than when operated in normal print mode.
Pursuant to the terms of the separation and distribution agreement, HP and Hewlett Packard Enterprise will share equally in any recovery from Oracle once Hewlett Packard Enterprise has been reimbursed for all costs incurred in the prosecution of the action prior to the Separation.
On April 30 and May 10, 2010, the India Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (the “DRI”) issued show cause notices to Hewlett-Packard India Sales Private Limited (“HP India”), a subsidiary of HP, seven HP India employees and one former HP India employee alleging that HP India underpaid customs duties while importing products and spare parts into India and seeking to recover an aggregate of approximately $370 million, plus penalties.
On April 11, 2012, the Bangalore Commissioner of Customs issued an order on the products-related show cause notice affirming certain duties and penalties against HP India and the named individuals of approximately $386 million, of which HP India had already deposited $9 million.
On April 20, 2012, the Commissioner issued an order on the parts-related show cause notice affirming certain duties and penalties against HP India and certain of the named individuals of approximately $17 million, of which HP India had already deposited $7 million.
After the order, HP India deposited an additional $3 million in connection with the parts-related show cause notice so as to avoid certain penalties.
On January 24, 2013, the Customs Tribunal ordered HP India to deposit an additional $24 million against the products order, which HP India deposited in March 2013.
Pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement, Hewlett Packard Enterprise has agreed to indemnify HP in part, based on the extent to which any liability arises from the products and spare parts of Hewlett Packard Enterprise’s businesses.
The separation and distribution agreement includes provisions that provide for the allocation of environmental liabilities between HP and Hewlett Packard Enterprise including certain remediation obligations; responsibilities arising from the chemical and materials composition of their respective products, their safe use and their energy consumption; obligations under product take back legislation that addresses the collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of products; and other environmental matters.
HP will generally be responsible for environmental liabilities related to the properties and other assets, including products, allocated to HP under the separation and distribution agreement and other ancillary agreements.
Under these agreements, HP will indemnify Hewlett Packard Enterprise for liabilities for specified ongoing remediation projects, subject to certain limitations, and Hewlett Packard Enterprise has a payment obligation for a specified portion of the cost of those remediation projects.
In addition, HP will share with Hewlett Packard Enterprise other environmental liabilities as set forth in the separation and distribution agreement.
HP is indemnified in whole or in part by Hewlett Packard Enterprise for liabilities arising from the assets assigned to Hewlett Packard Enterprise and for certain environmental matters as detailed in the separation and distribution agreement.
Under the separation and distribution agreement, HP agreed to indemnify Hewlett Packard Enterprise, each of its subsidiaries and each of their respective directors, officers and employees from and against all liabilities relating to, arising out of or resulting from, among other matters, the liabilities allocated to HP as part of the Separation.
Hewlett Packard Enterprise similarly agreed to indemnify HP, each of its subsidiaries and each of their respective directors, officers and employees from and against all liabilities relating to, arising out of or resulting from, among other matters, the liabilities allocated to Hewlett Packard Enterprise as part of the Separation.
HP expects Hewlett Packard Enterprise to fully perform under the terms of the separation and distribution agreement.
The table below presents the preliminary purchase price allocation for HP's acquisition as of November 1, 2017 and reflects various preliminary fair value estimates and analyses, including preliminary work performed by third-party valuation specialists, which are subject to change within the measurement period as valuations are finalized.
HP expects to continue to obtain information to assist it in determining the fair value of the net assets acquired at the acquisition date during the measurement period.


item2.txt
For the three months ended January 31, 2018, total net revenue increased 14% (increased 13% on a constant currency basis) as compared to the prior-year period.
The increase in net revenue was primarily driven by growth in Notebooks, Desktops and Supplies revenue and favorable foreign currency impacts.
For the three months ended January 31, 2018, our gross margin increased 0.1 percentage points, as compared to the prior-year period, primarily driven by improved rate in Printing due to productivity improvements, partially offset by higher commodity costs in Personal Systems.
Selling, general and administrative expense increased 14.9% for the three months ended January 31, 2018, as compared to the prior-year period, primarily driven by the acquisition of Samsung’s printer business and incremental go-to-market investments to support revenue growth.
Interest and other, net expense decreased by $13 million for the three months ended January 31, 2018, as compared to the prior-year period, partially due to lower foreign currency transaction losses.
Personal Systems net revenue increased 14.9% (increased 13.0% on a constant currency basis) for the three months ended January 31, 2018 as compared to the prior-year period.
The net revenue increase was primarily due to growth in Notebooks, Desktops and Workstations and favorable foreign currency impacts.
The net revenue increase was driven by a 7.3% increase in unit volume combined with a 7.1% increase in average selling prices (“ASPs”) as compared to the prior-year period.
Consumer revenue increased 12.6% for the three months ended January 31, 2018 as compared to the prior-year period, driven by growth in Notebooks and Desktops as a result of higher unit volume combined with higher ASPs. Commercial revenue increased 16.2% as compared to the prior-year period, driven by growth in Notebooks, Desktops and Workstations.
Personal Systems earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue decreased by 0.2 percentage points for the three months ended January 31, 2018 as compared to the prior-year period.
The decrease in gross margin was primarily due to an increase in commodity cost partially offset by higher ASPs. Operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue decreased primarily due to operating expense management.
Printing net revenue increased 13.7% (increased 12.4% on a constant currency basis) for the three months ended January 31, 2018 as compared to the prior-year period.
Net revenue for Supplies increased 10.4% as compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to the acquisition of Samsung’s printer business.
Printer ASPs increased primarily due to a mix shift to higher-end printers and favorable foreign currency impacts, partially offset by the dilution impact from Samsung-branded low-end A4 products.
Net revenue for Commercial Hardware increased by 27.5% as compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to revenue from Samsung-branded printers (net of 25% SKU reductions for the three months ended January 31, 2018), A3 LaserJet and PageWide printers.
Net revenue for Consumer Hardware increased 11.0% as compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to a 6.9% increase in printer unit volume and a 5.0% increase in ASPs. The unit volume increase was primarily driven by the Inkjet Home business.
The increase in ASPs was primarily driven by better discount management, mix shift to higher-end printers and favorable foreign currency impacts.
Printing earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue decreased by 0.2 percentage points for the three months ended January 31, 2018 as compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to an increase in operating expenses, partially offset by improved gross margin.
The gross margin increase was primarily driven by operational improvements and favorable foreign currency impacts, partially offset by lower Supplies mix.
Operating expenses increased primarily driven by the acquisition of Samsung’s printer business and increases in investments in key growth initiatives and go-to-market.
As we evaluate the impact of the TCJA and the future cash needs of our operations, we may revise the amount of foreign earnings considered to be permanently reinvested in our foreign subsidiaries and how to utilize such funds, including reducing our gross debt level, returning capital to shareholders with a focus on incremental share repurchase or other uses.


item4.txt
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) and Rule 15d-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.‡        


part2.txt
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
There were no unregistered sales of equity securities during the period covered by this report.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
The registrant agrees to furnish to the Commission supplementally upon request a copy of (1) any instrument with respect to long-term debt not filed herewith as to which the total amount of securities authorized thereunder does not exceed 10% of the total assets of the registrant and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis and (2) any omitted schedules to any material plan of acquisition, disposition or reorganization set forth above.


