item1.txt
HP expects that the implementation of this guidance will not have a material impact on its Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
HP expects that the implementation of this guidance will not have a material impact on its Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
HP expects that the implementation of this guidance will not have a material impact on its Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
HP expects that the implementation of this guidance will not have a material impact on its Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
HP is currently evaluating the timing and the impact of this guidance on the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
HP is currently evaluating the impact of this guidance on the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
HP expects that the implementation of this guidance will not have a material impact on its Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
As of July 31, 2018, there was $258 million of unrecognized pre-tax stock-based compensation expense related to non-vested restricted stock units, which HP expects to recognize over the remaining weighted-average vesting period of 1.4 years.
As of July 31, 2018, there was $1 million of unrecognized pre-tax, stock-based compensation expense related to unvested stock options, which HP expects to recognize over the remaining weighted-average vesting period of 0.3 years.
During the three and nine months ended July 31, 2018, HP recorded $7.0 million and $2.2 billion, respectively, of net tax benefits related to discrete items in the provision for taxes.
However, for the three months ended January 31, 2018, HP recorded a provisional tax benefit of $1.1 billion related to $5.5 billion net benefit for the decrease in its deferred tax liability on unremitted foreign earnings, partially offset by $3.2 billion net expense for the deemed repatriation tax payable in installments over eight years and $1.2 billion net expense for the remeasurement of its deferred assets and liabilities to the new U.S. statutory tax rate.
For the three months ended April 30, 2018, HP recorded provisional tax expense of $379 million related to remeasurement of its U.S. deferred tax assets that are expected to be realized at a lower rate and a $43 million tax benefit as an adjustment to the provisional deemed repatriation tax amount due to further analysis and additional guidance.
For the three months ended July 31, 2018, HP recorded net tax benefits of $12 million related to acquisition costs offset by other charges of $5 million.
During the three and nine months ended July 31, 2018, in addition to the discrete items mentioned above, HP recorded excess tax benefits of $2 million and $36 million, respectively, on stock options, restricted stock units and performance-adjusted restricted stock units.
During the three and nine months ended July 31, 2017, HP recorded $27 million and $31 million, respectively, of net tax benefit related to discrete items in the provision for taxes for continuing operations.
The three months and nine months ended July 31, 2017 included a net tax benefit of $12 million related to provision to return adjustments due to the filing of HP’s U.S. Federal tax return.
HP recognizes interest income from favorable settlements and interest expense and penalties accrued on unrecognized tax benefits in the provision for taxes in the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Earnings.
As these transfers qualify as true sales under the applicable accounting guidance, the receivables are derecognized from the Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets upon transfer, and HP receives a payment for the receivables from the third party within a mutually agreed upon time period.
HP uses derivatives to offset business exposure to foreign currency and interest rate risk on expected future cash flows and on certain existing assets and liabilities.
HP recognizes all derivative instruments at fair value in the Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets.
To further limit credit risk, HP has collateral security agreements that allow HP to hold collateral from, or require HP to post collateral to, counterparties when aggregate derivative fair values exceed contractually established thresholds which are generally based on the credit ratings of HP and its counterparties.
HP enters into fair value hedges, such as interest rate swaps, to reduce the exposure of its debt portfolio to changes in fair value resulting from changes in interest rates by achieving a primarily U.S. dollar London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”)-based floating interest expense.
For derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges, HP recognizes the change in fair value of the derivative instrument, as well as the offsetting change in the fair value of the hedged item, in Interest and other, net on the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Earnings in the period of change.
HP uses forward contracts and at times, option contracts designated as cash flow hedges to protect against the foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in its forecasted net revenue and, to a lesser extent, cost of revenue, operating expenses, and intercompany loans denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar.
For derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges, HP initially records changes in fair value for the effective portion of the derivative instrument in accumulated other comprehensive loss as a separate component of stockholders’ deficit on the Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets and subsequently reclassifies these amounts into earnings in the period during which the hedged transaction is recognized in earnings.
HP reports the effective portion of its cash flow hedges in the same financial statement line item as the hedged transaction.
For derivative instruments not designated as hedging instruments, HP recognizes changes in fair value of the derivative instrument in Interest and other, net in the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Earnings in the period of change.
For interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges, HP measures hedge effectiveness by offsetting the change in fair value of the hedged item with the change in fair value of the derivative.
For foreign currency options and forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges, HP measures hedge effectiveness by comparing the cumulative change in fair value of the hedge contract with the cumulative change in fair value of the hedged item, both of which are based on forward rates.
HP recognizes any ineffective portion of the hedge in the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Earnings in the same period in 
In March 2018, HP terminated several interest rate swaps with a notional amount of $1.5 billion that were de-designated as fair value hedges of certain fixed rate debt securities.
As disclosed in Note 9, “Financial Instruments”, HP uses interest rate swaps to mitigate some of the exposure of its debt portfolio to changes in fair value resulting from changes in interest rates by achieving a primarily U.S. dollar LIBOR-based floating interest expense.
On November 1, 2015, HP’s Board of Directors authorized HP to borrow up to a total outstanding principal balance of $4.0 billion, or the equivalent in foreign currencies, for the use and benefit of HP and HP’s subsidiaries, by the issuance of commercial paper or through the execution of promissory notes, loan agreements, letters of credit, agreements for lines of credit or overdraft facilities.
During the three and nine months ended July 31, 2018, HP executed share repurchases of 31 million shares and 86 million shares and settled total shares for $0.7 billion and $2.0 billion, respectively.
During the three and nine months ended July 31, 2017, HP executed share repurchases of 16 million shares and 55 million shares and settled total shares for $0.3 billion and $0.9 billion, respectively.
On April 30 and May 10, 2010, the India Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (the “DRI”) issued show cause notices to Hewlett-Packard India Sales Private Limited (“HP India”), a subsidiary of HP, seven HP India employees and one former HP India employee alleging that HP India underpaid customs duties while importing products and spare parts into India and seeking to recover an aggregate of approximately $370 million, plus penalties.
On April 11, 2012, the Bangalore Commissioner of Customs issued an order on the products-related show cause notice affirming certain duties and penalties against HP India and the named individuals of approximately $386 million, of which HP India had already deposited $9 million.
On April 20, 2012, the Commissioner issued an order on the parts-related show cause notice affirming certain duties and penalties against HP India and certain of the named individuals of approximately $17 million, of which HP India had already deposited $7 million.
After the order, HP India deposited an additional $3 million in connection with the parts-related show cause notice so as to avoid certain penalties.
Pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement, Hewlett Packard Enterprise has agreed to indemnify HP in part, based on the extent to which any liability arises from the products and spare parts of Hewlett Packard Enterprise’s businesses.
On April 17, 2015, four former-HP subsidiaries that became subsidiaries of Hewlett Packard Enterprise at the time of the Separation (Autonomy Corporation Limited, Hewlett Packard Vision BV, Autonomy Systems, Limited, and Autonomy, Inc.) initiated civil proceedings in the U.K. High Court of Justice against two members of Autonomy’s former management, Michael Lynch and Sushovan Hussain.
The separation and distribution agreement includes provisions that provide for the allocation of environmental liabilities between HP and Hewlett Packard Enterprise including certain remediation obligations; responsibilities arising from the chemical and materials composition of their respective products, their safe use and their energy consumption; obligations under product take back legislation that addresses the collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of products; and other environmental matters.
HP will generally be responsible for environmental liabilities related to the properties and other assets, including products, allocated to HP under the separation and distribution agreement and other ancillary agreements.
Under these agreements, HP will indemnify Hewlett Packard Enterprise for liabilities for specified ongoing remediation projects, subject to certain limitations, and Hewlett Packard Enterprise has a payment obligation for a specified portion of the cost of those remediation projects.
In addition, HP will share with Hewlett Packard Enterprise other environmental liabilities as set forth in the separation and distribution agreement.
HP is indemnified in whole or in part by Hewlett Packard Enterprise for liabilities arising from the assets assigned to Hewlett Packard Enterprise and for certain environmental matters as detailed in the separation and distribution agreement.
Under the separation and distribution agreement, HP agreed to indemnify Hewlett Packard Enterprise, each of its subsidiaries and each of their respective directors, officers and employees from and against all liabilities relating to, arising out of or resulting from, among other matters, the liabilities allocated to HP as part of the Separation.
Hewlett Packard Enterprise similarly agreed to indemnify HP, each of its subsidiaries and each of their respective directors, officers and employees from and against all liabilities relating to, arising out of or resulting from, among other matters, the liabilities allocated to Hewlett Packard Enterprise as part of the Separation.
In connection with the Separation, HP entered into the tax matters agreement (“TMA”) with Hewlett Packard Enterprise, effective on November 1, 2015.
The TMA provides that HP and Hewlett Packard Enterprise will share certain pre-Separation income tax liabilities.
The table below presents the preliminary purchase price allocation for HP's acquisition as of November 1, 2017 and reflects various preliminary fair value estimates and analyses, including preliminary work performed by third-party valuation specialists, which are subject to change within the measurement period as valuations are finalized.
HP expects to continue to obtain information to assist it in determining the fair value of the net assets acquired at the acquisition date during the measurement period.


item2.txt
For the three months ended July 31, 2018, our gross margin decreased by 0.2 percentage points as compared to the prior-year period.
For the nine months ended July 31, 2018, our gross margin remained flat, as compared to the prior-year period.
Selling, general and administrative expense increased 11.9% and 14.1% for the three and nine months ended July 31, 2018, respectively, as compared to the prior-year periods, primarily driven by incremental go-to-market investments to support revenue growth, including the acquisition of Samsung’s printer business.
Interest and other, net expense increased by $6 million and $810 million for the three and nine months ended July 31, 2018, respectively, as compared to the prior-year periods.
During the three and nine months ended July 31, 2018, we recorded $7.0 million and $2.2 billion, respectively, of net tax benefits related to discrete items in the provision for taxes.
For the three months ended July 31, 2018, we recorded net tax benefits of $12 million related to acquisition costs offset by other charges of $5 million.
During the three and nine months ended July 31, 2017, we recorded $27 million and $31 million, respectively, of net tax benefits related to discrete items in the provision for taxes for continuing operations.
Personal Systems net revenue increased 12.0% (increased 8.6% on a constant currency basis) for the three months ended July 31, 2018 as compared to the prior-year period.
The net revenue increase was driven by a 6.3% and 5.4% increase in unit volume and ASPs, respectively, as compared to the prior-year period.
Consumer revenue increased 10.2% for the three months ended July 31, 2018 as compared to the prior-year period, driven by growth in Notebooks and Desktops as a result of higher unit volume combined with higher ASPs. Commercial revenue increased 12.9% as compared to the prior-year period, driven by growth in Notebooks, Desktops and Workstations.
Personal Systems earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue increased by 0.2 percentage points for the three months ended July 31, 2018 as compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to an increase in gross margin partially offset by an increase in operating expenses.
Personal Systems net revenue increased 13.8% (increased 10.8% on a constant currency basis) for the nine months ended July 31, 2018 as compared to the prior-year period.
The net revenue increase was driven by a 6.8% and 6.5% increase in unit volume and ASPs, respectively, as compared to the prior-year period.
Consumer revenue increased 11.2% for the nine months ended July 31, 2018 as compared to the prior-year period, driven by growth in Notebooks and Desktops as a result of higher unit volume combined with higher ASPs. Commercial revenue increased 15.1% as compared to the prior-year period, driven by growth in Notebooks, Desktops and Workstations.
Personal Systems earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue increased by 0.1 percentage points for the nine months ended July 31, 2018 as compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to an increase in gross margin, driven by higher ASPs partially offset by an increase in logistics and commodity costs.
Printing net revenue increased 10.9% (increased 9.0% on a constant currency basis) for the three months ended July 31, 2018 as compared to the prior-year period.
Net revenue for Supplies increased 8.3% as compared to the prior-year period, including the acquisition of Samsung’s printer business.
Net revenue for Commercial Hardware increased by 24.5% as compared to the prior-year period, including revenue from Samsung-branded printers, LaserJet and PageWide printers.
Net revenue for Consumer Hardware increased 3.5% as compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to a 2.1% increase in printer unit volume, and nominal increase in ASPs. The unit volume increase was primarily driven by the LaserJet and InkJet Home business.
The ASPs increase was primarily due to favorable foreign currency impacts, partially offset by mix shift to low-end printers.
Printing net revenue increased 11.8% (increased 10.0% on a constant currency basis) for the nine months ended July 31, 2018 as compared to the prior-year period.
Net revenue for Supplies increased by 8.8% as compared to the prior-year period, including the acquisition of Samsung’s printer business.
Printer ASPs increased primarily due to favorable foreign currency impacts, partially offset by the dilution impact from Samsung-branded low-end A4 products.
Net revenue for Commercial Hardware increased 26.2% as compared to the prior-year period, including revenue from Samsung-branded printers, LaserJet and PageWide printers.
Net revenue for Consumer Hardware increased 5.8% as compared to the prior-year period due to a 4.2% increase in printer unit volume and a 1.9% increase in ASPs. The unit volume increase was primarily driven by InkJet and LaserJet Home business.
Printing earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue decreased by 1.0 percentage points for the nine months ended July 31, 2018 as compared to the prior-year period primarily due to an increase in operating expenses.
Compared to the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017, net cash used in investing activities decreased by $0.9 billion for the nine months ended July 31, 2018, primarily due to a decrease in investments classified as available-for-sale investments within Other current assets by $1.2 billion and collateral related to our derivatives of $0.7 billion, partially offset by the payment of $1.0 billion for the acquisition of Samsung’s printer business.


item4.txt
The Exhibit Index beginning on page 57 of this report sets forth a list of exhibits.


part2.txt
Information with respect to this item may be found in Note 13, “Litigation and Contingencies” to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
There were no unregistered sales of equity securities during the period covered by this report.
The registrant agrees to furnish to the Commission supplementally upon request a copy of (1) any instrument with respect to long-term debt not filed herewith as to which the total amount of securities authorized thereunder does not exceed 10% of the total assets of the registrant and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis and (2) any omitted schedules to any material plan of acquisition, disposition or reorganization set forth above.


