item1.txt
In accordance with the modified retrospective method transition requirements, HP has presented the financial statement line items impacted and adjusted to compare to presentation under the prior GAAP for the Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheet as of April 30, 2019 and for Consolidated Condensed Statement of Earnings for three months and six months ended April 30, 2019.
Based on the current assessment, HP expects the adoption of this guidance will have a material impact on its Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
Based on the current assessment, HP expects that the implementation of this guidance will not have a material impact on its Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
HP is currently evaluating the timing and the impact of this guidance on the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
HP will adopt this guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 and will apply the modified retrospective transition option made available in July 2018 by the FASB, whereby comparative periods will not be retrospectively presented in the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
Based on the current assessment, HP expects the adoption of this standard to have a material impact on the Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheet.
Pursuant to the adoption of ASU 2017-07 in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, HP now reclassifies market-related retirement credits and all other components (excluding the service cost component) of net periodic benefit cost to Interest and other, net in Consolidated Condensed Statement of Earnings.
During the six months ended April 30, 2019, HP contributed $15 million to its non-U.S. pension plans, paid $17 million to cover benefit payments to U.S. non-qualified plan participants.
As of January 31, 2019, HP had completed its accounting for the tax effects of the TCJA with no material changes to the provisional amounts recorded during the measurement period.
HP’s effective tax rate was 11.4% and (1,162)% for the three months ended April 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and 11.1% and (203)% for the six months ended April 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The difference between the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 21% and HP’s effective tax rate for the three and six months ended April 30, 2019 is primarily due to favorable tax rates associated with certain earnings from HP’s operations in lower-tax jurisdictions throughout the world.
For the three and six months ended April 30, 2018 HP’s effective tax rate generally differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 23% due to the transitional impacts of U.S. tax reform and resolution of various audits and tax litigation, partially offset by favorable tax rates associated with certain earnings from HP’s operations in lower-tax jurisdictions throughout the world.
During the three and six months ended April 30, 2019, HP recorded $40 million and $49 million, respectively, of net tax benefits related to discrete items in the provision for taxes.
In addition to the discrete items mentioned above, HP recorded $20 million of excess tax benefits associated with stock options, restricted stock units and performance-adjusted restricted stock units for the six months ended April 30, 2019.
During the three and six months ended April 30, 2018, HP recorded $1.1 billion and $2.2 billion, respectively, of net tax benefits related to discrete items in the provision for taxes.
However, for the three months ended January 31, 2018, HP recorded a provisional tax benefit of $1.1 billion related to $5.5 billion net benefit for the decrease in our deferred tax liability on unremitted foreign earnings, partially offset by $3.2 billion net expense for the deemed repatriation tax payable in installments over eight years and $1.2 billion net expense for remeasurement of its deferred tax assets and liabilities for the revaluation of its deferred assets and liabilities to the new U.S. statutory tax rate.
In addition, for the three months ended April 30, 2018, HP recorded provisional tax expense of $379 million related to remeasurement of its U.S. deferred tax assets that were expected to be realized at a lower rate and a $43 million tax benefit as an adjustment to the provisional deemed repatriation tax amount due to further analysis and additional guidance.
During the three and six months ended April 30, 2018, in addition to the discrete items mentioned above, HP recorded excess tax benefits of $6 million and $34 million, respectively, on stock options, restricted stock units and performance-adjusted restricted stock units.
HP recognizes interest income from favorable settlements and interest expense and penalties accrued on unrecognized tax benefits in the provision for taxes in the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Earnings.
As these transfers qualify as true sales under the applicable accounting guidance, the receivables are de-recognized from the Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets upon transfer, and HP receives a payment for the receivables from the third party within a mutually agreed upon time period.
As of April 30, 2019 and October 31, 2018, HP’s contract liabilities balances were $2.0 billion and $1.9 billion, included in Other Current Liabilities and Other Non-Current Liabilities, respectively, in the Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheet.
HP uses derivatives to offset business exposure to foreign currency and interest rate risk on expected future cash flows and on certain existing assets and liabilities.
HP recognizes all derivative instruments at fair value in the Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets.
For derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges, HP recognizes the change in fair value of the derivative instrument, as well as the offsetting change in the fair value of the hedged item, in Interest and other, net on the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Earnings in the period of change.
HP uses forward contracts and at times, option contracts designated as cash flow hedges to protect against the foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in its forecasted net revenue and, to a lesser extent, cost of revenue, operating expenses, and intercompany loans denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar.
For derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges, HP initially records changes in fair value for the effective portion of the derivative instrument in accumulated other comprehensive loss as a separate component of stockholders’ deficit on the Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets and subsequently reclassifies these amounts into earnings in the period during which the hedged transaction is recognized in earnings.
HP reports the effective portion of its cash flow hedges in the same financial statement line item as changes in the fair value of the hedged item.
For derivative instruments not designated as hedging instruments, HP recognizes changes in fair value of the derivative instrument, as well as the offsetting change in the fair value of the hedged item, in Interest and other, net in the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Earnings in the period of change.
For interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges, HP measures hedge effectiveness by offsetting the change in fair value of the hedged item with the change in fair value of the derivative.
For foreign currency options and forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges, HP measures hedge effectiveness by comparing the cumulative change in fair value of the hedge contract with the cumulative change in fair value of the hedged item, both of which are based on forward rates.
HP recognizes any ineffective portion of the hedge in the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Earnings in the same period in which ineffectiveness occurs.
On April 30 and May 10, 2010, the India Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (the “DRI”) issued show cause notices to Hewlett-Packard India Sales Private Limited (“HP India”), a subsidiary of HP, seven HP India employees and one former HP India employee alleging that HP India underpaid customs duties while importing products and spare parts into India and seeking to recover an aggregate of approximately $370 million, plus penalties.
On April 11, 2012, the Bangalore Commissioner of Customs issued an order on the products-related show cause notice affirming certain duties and penalties against HP India and the named individuals of approximately $386 million, of which HP India had already deposited $9 million.
On April 20, 2012, the Commissioner issued an order on the parts-related show cause notice affirming certain duties and penalties against HP India and certain of the named individuals of approximately $17 million, of which HP India had already deposited $7 million.
Pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement, Hewlett Packard Enterprise has agreed to indemnify HP in part, based on the extent to which any liability arises from the products and spare parts of Hewlett Packard Enterprise’s businesses.
On April 17, 2015, four former-HP subsidiaries that became subsidiaries of Hewlett Packard Enterprise at the time of the Separation (Autonomy Corporation Limited, Hewlett Packard Vision BV, Autonomy Systems, Limited, and Autonomy, Inc.) initiated civil proceedings in the U.K. High Court of Justice against two members of Autonomy’s former management, Michael Lynch and Sushovan Hussain.
In particular, HP faces increasing complexity in its product design and procurement operations as it adjusts to new and future requirements relating to the chemical and materials composition of its products, their safe use, and the energy consumption associated with those products, including requirements relating to climate change.
The separation and distribution agreement includes provisions that provide for the allocation of environmental liabilities between HP and Hewlett Packard Enterprise including certain remediation obligations; responsibilities arising from the chemical and materials composition of their respective products, their safe use and their energy consumption; obligations under product take back legislation that addresses the collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of products; and other environmental matters.
HP will generally be responsible for environmental liabilities related to the properties and other assets, including products, allocated to HP under the separation and distribution agreement and other ancillary agreements.
Under these agreements, HP will indemnify Hewlett Packard Enterprise for liabilities for specified ongoing remediation projects, subject to certain limitations, and Hewlett Packard Enterprise has a payment obligation for a specified portion of the cost of those remediation projects.
HP is indemnified in whole or in part by Hewlett Packard Enterprise for liabilities arising from the assets assigned to Hewlett Packard Enterprise and for certain environmental matters as detailed in the separation and distribution agreement.
Hewlett Packard Enterprise similarly agreed to indemnify HP, each of its subsidiaries and each of their respective directors, officers and employees from and against all liabilities relating to, arising out of or resulting from, among other matters, the liabilities allocated to Hewlett Packard Enterprise as part of the Separation.
The TMA provides that HP and Hewlett Packard Enterprise will share certain pre-Separation income tax liabilities.
In the ordinary course of business, HP enters into contractual arrangements under which HP may agree to indemnify a third party to such arrangement from any losses incurred relating to the services they perform on behalf of HP or for losses arising from certain events as defined within the particular contract, which may include, for example, litigation or claims relating to past performance.
The table below presents the preliminary purchase price allocation for HP's acquisition as of November 1, 2018 and reflects various preliminary fair value estimates and analyses, including preliminary work performed by third-party valuation specialists, which are subject to change within the measurement period as valuations are finalized.


item2.txt
For the three months ended April 30, 2019, total net revenue remained flat (increased 2% on a constant currency basis) as compared to the prior-year period.
The increase in net revenue was primarily driven by growth in Desktops, Notebooks and Commercial Printing Hardware, partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency impacts and a decline in Supplies.
For the six months ended April 30, 2019, total net revenue increased 1% (increased 2% on a constant currency basis) as compared to the prior-year period.
The increase in net revenue was primarily driven by growth in Notebooks, Desktops and Consumer Printing Hardware, partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency impacts and decline in Supplies.
Personal Systems net revenue increased 1.8% (increased 4.7% on a constant currency basis) for the three months ended April 30, 2019 as compared to the prior-year period.
The net revenue increase was driven by a 3.3% increase in average selling prices (“ASPs”), partially offset by a 1.5% decrease in unit volume, as compared to the prior-year period.
Consequently, Commercial revenue increased 6.7% and Consumer revenue decreased 9.1% for the three months ended April 30, 2019 as compared to the prior-year period.
Personal Systems earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue increased by 0.5 percentage points for the three months ended April 30, 2019 as compared to the prior-year period.
Personal Systems net revenue increased 2.1% (increased 4.1% on a constant currency basis) for the six months ended April 30, 2019 as compared to the prior-year period.
The net revenue increase was driven by a 4.5% increase in ASPs, partially offset by a 2.3% decrease in unit volume, as compared to the prior-year period.
Consequently, Commercial revenue increased 4.8% and Consumer revenue decreased 3.3% for the six months ended April 30, 2019 as compared to the prior-year period.
Personal Systems earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue increased by 0.7 percentage points for the six months ended April 30, 2019 as compared to the prior-year period.
Printing net revenue decreased 2.4% (decreased 1.7% on a constant currency basis) for the three months ended April 30, 2019 as compared to the prior-year period.
Net revenue for Commercial Hardware increased by 3.0% as compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to the acquisition of the Apogee group.
Net revenue for Consumer Hardware decreased 8.5% as compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to a 4.0% decrease in printer unit volume and 5.6% decrease in ASPs. The unit volume decrease was primarily driven by the Inkjet Home Consumer and LaserJet Home Business.
Printing earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue increased by 0.4 percentage points for the three months ended April 30, 2019 as compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to decrease in operating expenses.
Printing net revenue decreased 1.4% (decreased 1.2% on a constant currency basis) for the six months ended April 30, 2019 as compared to the prior-year period.
Net revenue for Consumer Hardware decreased 3.3% as compared to the prior-year period, due to a 0.7% decrease in printer unit volume and by 3.3% decrease in ASPs. The unit volume decrease was primarily driven by the InkJet Home Consumer Business.
Printing earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue increased by 0.4 percentage points for the six months ended April 30, 2019 as compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to decrease in operating expenses, partially offset by decline in gross margin.
Compared to the corresponding period in fiscal year 2018, net cash provided by operating activities decreased by $0.3 billion for the six months ended April 30, 2019, primarily due to working capital management activities.
Compared to the corresponding period in fiscal year 2018, net cash used in financing activities decreased by $0.4 billion for the six months ended April 30, 2019, primarily due to lower payment of debt of $1.5 billion partially offset by a decrease in outstanding commercial paper amounts of $0.9 billion.


item4.txt
The registrant agrees to furnish to the Commission supplementally upon request a copy of any instrument with respect to long-term debt not filed herewith as to which the total amount of securities authorized thereunder does not exceed 10% of the total assets of the registrant and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.


part2.txt
Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described in Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2018 and Part II, Item 1A, “Risk Factors” in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended January 31, 2019, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of our common and capital stock.
For example, we may fail to develop innovative products and services, maintain the manufacturing quality of our products, manage our global, multi-tier distribution network, adapt to new or changing marketplaces or successfully market new products and services, any of which could adversely affect our business and financial condition.
To successfully execute this strategy, we must emphasize the aspects of our core business where demand remains strong, identify and capitalize on natural areas of growth, innovate and develop new products and services that will enable us to expand beyond our existing technology categories, and adapt to new and changing marketplaces for our products.
Any failure to successfully execute this strategy, including any failure to invest sufficiently in strategic growth areas, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.
We may experience a shortage of, or a delay in receiving, certain components as a result of strong demand, capacity constraints, supplier financial weaknesses, the inability of suppliers to borrow funds, disputes with suppliers (some of whom are also our customers), disruptions in the operations of component suppliers, other problems experienced by suppliers or problems faced during the transition to new suppliers.
We represent a substantial portion of the business of some of these OMs, and any changes to the nature or volume of our business transactions with a particular OM could adversely affect the operations and financial condition of the OM and lead to shortages or delays in receiving products from that OM.
In order to secure components for our products or services, at times we may make advance payments to suppliers or enter into non-cancelable commitments with vendors.
If we fail to anticipate customer demand properly, a temporary oversupply could result in excess or obsolete components, which could adversely affect our business and financial performance.
As a result of binding long-term price or purchase commitments with vendors, we may be obligated to purchase components or services at prices that are higher than those available in the current market and be limited in our ability to respond to changing market conditions.
Our competitors may obtain better pricing, more favorable contractual terms and conditions, and more favorable allocations of products and components during periods of limited supply, and our ability to engage in relationships with certain OMs and suppliers could be limited.
The practice employed by our PC business of purchasing product components and transferring those components to OMs may create large supplier receivables with the OMs that, depending on the financial condition of the OMs, may create collectability risks.
We work with our suppliers to improve their labor practices and working conditions, such as by including requirements in our agreements with our suppliers that workers receive fair treatment, safe working conditions and freely chosen employment, that materials are responsibly sourced and that business operations are conducted in an environmentally responsible and ethical way.
Brand perception and customer loyalty could be adversely impacted by a supplier’s improper practices or failure to comply with the above-mentioned requirements or those included in our Supplier Code of Conduct, General Specification for the Environment and other related provisions and requirements of our procurement contracts, including supplier audits, reporting of smelters, wood fiber certification (for HP brand paper and product packaging) and GHG emissions, water and waste data.
New products that we introduce may utilize custom components obtained from only one source initially until we have evaluated whether there is a need for additional suppliers.
The loss of a single-source supplier, the deterioration of our relationship with a single-source supplier, or any unilateral modification to the contractual terms under which we are supplied components by a single-source supplier could adversely affect our business and financial performance.


