About Intuit
  Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2020 Form 10-Q 24  
Our Growth Strategy
At Intuit, our strategy starts with customer obsession. We listen to and observe our customers, understand their challenges, and then use advanced technology, including artificial intelligence (A.I.), to develop innovative solutions designed to solve their problems and help them grow and prosper. For more than three decades, our values have inspired us to innovate and reimagine ways to save people time and money, eliminate drudgery and inspire confidence. We have reinvented and disrupted ourselves to better serve our customers, as we continue to transform into an A.I.-driven expert platform company. Our assessment of external trends - the expectation of more personalized experiences, the digitization of services, as well as the growth in the self-employed workforce - reveals significant opportunities to drive future growth. The result is a shift from traditional services and point solutions to interconnected capabilities that work on platforms and increasingly rely on A.I. and data-driven solutions.
As part of our strategy, we also develop relationships with key partners that enable us to scale our service to consumers, small businesses and the self-employed globally, including financial institutions, enterprise platforms, educational institutions and accountants. These partnerships allow us to co-create indispensable connections by sharing expertise, product integrations, and new solutions to solve more customer problems.
Industry Trends and Seasonality
Industry Trends
Key Challenges and Risks
As we offer more online services, the ongoing operation and availability of our platforms and systems and those of our external service providers is becoming increasingly important. Because we help customers manage their financial lives, we face risks associated with the hosting, collection, use, and retention of personal customer information and data. We are investing significant management attention and resources in our information technology infrastructure and in our privacy and security capabilities, and we expect to continue to do so in the future.
  Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2020 Form 10-Q 25  
For our consumer and professional tax offerings, we have implemented additional security measures and are continuing to work with state and federal governments to share information regarding suspicious filings. We continue to invest in security measures and to work with the broader industry and government to protect our customers against this type of fraud.
Overview of Financial Results
  Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2020 Form 10-Q 26  
Net income increased $23 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2019 due to the change in operating income described above partially offset by a decrease in excess tax benefits on share-based compensation. We recognized excess tax benefits on share-based compensation of $29 million and $41 million during the three months ended October 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, in our provision for income taxes. The decrease in excess tax benefits on share-based compensation was primarily due to a decrease in stock option exercises during the fiscal 2020 period. See “Non-Operating Income and Expenses - Income Taxes” later in this Item 2 for more information. Diluted net income per share increased 69% to $0.22 for the first quarter of fiscal 2020, in line with the increase in net income.
Segment Results
  Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2020 Form 10-Q 27  
Our Online Ecosystem includes revenue from QuickBooks Online, QuickBooks Online Advanced and QuickBooks Self-Employed financial and business management offerings; small business payroll services, including QuickBooks Online Payroll, Intuit Online Payroll, Intuit Full Service Payroll; merchant payment processing services for small businesses who use online offerings; and financing for small businesses.
Our Desktop Ecosystem includes revenue from our QuickBooks Desktop packaged software products (Desktop Pro, Desktop for Mac, Desktop Premier, and QuickBooks Point of Sale); QuickBooks Desktop software subscriptions (QuickBooks Desktop Pro Plus, QuickBooks Desktop Premier Plus, and QuickBooks Enterprise, and ProAdvisor Program memberships for the accounting professionals who serve small businesses); desktop payroll products (QuickBooks Basic Payroll, QuickBooks Assisted Payroll and QuickBooks Enhanced Payroll); merchant payment processing services for small businesses who use desktop offerings; and financial supplies.
Segment product revenue is derived from revenue related to software license and version protection for our QuickBooks Desktop products and subscriptions, license and related updates for our desktop payroll products and financial supplies, which are all part of our Desktop Ecosystem. Segment service and other revenue is derived from our Online Ecosystem revenue; and Desktop Ecosystem revenue related to support and connected services for our QuickBooks Desktop and desktop payroll products and subscriptions and merchant payment processing services.
Online Ecosystem revenue increased 35% in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 compared with the same period of fiscal 2019. QuickBooks Online Accounting revenue increased 41% in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 primarily due to an increase in customers as well as higher effective prices and a shift in mix to our higher priced offerings. Online Services revenue increased 27% in the first quarter of fiscal 2020. Online payroll revenue increased due to a shift in mix to our full service offering. Online payments revenue increased due to an increase in customers and an increase in charge volume per customer.
Desktop Ecosystem revenue increased 1% for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 compared with the same period of fiscal 2019 primarily due to an increase in customers for our QuickBooks Enterprise Desktop subscription offering partially offset by a decrease in QuickBooks Desktop packaged software sales.
  Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2020 Form 10-Q 28  
 Consumer
Consumer segment product revenue is derived primarily from TurboTax desktop tax return preparation software and related form updates.
Consumer segment service and other revenue is derived primarily from TurboTax Online and TurboTax Live offerings, electronic tax filing services and connected services, and also from our Mint and Turbo offerings.
Total Consumer segment revenue increased $10 million or 11% in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 compared with the same period of fiscal 2019. Due to the seasonal nature of our Consumer offerings, we typically generate nominal revenue from Consumer products and services in our first fiscal quarter compared with our second and third fiscal quarters. The majority of revenue for the first quarter of each fiscal year is for the filing of extended returns for the previous tax year. 
  Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2020 Form 10-Q 29  
 Strategic Partner
Strategic Partner segment product revenue is derived primarily from Lacerte, ProSeries, and ProFile desktop tax preparation software products and related form updates.
Strategic Partner segment service and other revenue is derived primarily from ProConnect Tax Online tax products, electronic tax filing service, connected services and, bank products.
Total Strategic Partner segment revenue increased 6% in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 compared with the same period of fiscal 2019. Due to the seasonal nature of our Strategic Partner offerings, we typically generate nominal revenue from professional tax products and services in our first fiscal quarter compared with our second and third fiscal quarters. The majority of revenue for the first quarter of each fiscal year is for the filing of extended returns for the previous tax year.
Because of the seasonality of our Strategic Partner revenue, we do not believe that revenue or operating results for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 is indicative of trends for the current fiscal year. We will not have substantially complete results for the 2019 tax season until the third quarter of fiscal 2020.
  Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2020 Form 10-Q 30  
Total operating expenses as a percentage of total net revenue decreased in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to the same period of fiscal 2019. Total net revenue for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 increased $149 million or 15% while total operating expenses for the quarter increased $86 million or 11%. Total operating expenses increased $38 million for staffing expenses due to higher headcount, $25 million for outside services, and $5 million for advertising and marketing expenses.
Non-Operating Income and Expenses
Interest Expense
  Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2020 Form 10-Q 31  
Interest and Other Income, Net
Overview
At October 31, 2019, our cash, cash equivalents and investments totaled $2.3 billion, a decrease of $485 million from July 31, 2019 due to the factors discussed under “Statements of Cash Flows” below. Our primary sources of liquidity have been cash from operations, which entails the collection of accounts receivable for products and services, and borrowings under our credit facility. Our primary uses of cash have been for research and development programs, selling and marketing activities, capital projects, acquisitions of businesses, debt service costs and debt repayment, repurchases of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs, and the payment of cash dividends. As discussed in “Executive Overview – Industry Trends and Seasonality” earlier in this Item 2, our business is subject to significant seasonality. The balance of our cash, cash equivalents, and investments generally fluctuates with that seasonal pattern. We believe the seasonality of our business is likely to continue in the future.
  Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2020 Form 10-Q 32  
under the unsecured revolving credit facility. Our secured revolving credit facility is available to fund a portion of our loans to qualified small businesses. At October 31, 2019, $48 million was outstanding under the secured revolving credit facility. 
Based on past performance and current expectations, we believe that our cash and cash equivalents, investments, and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet anticipated seasonal working capital needs, capital expenditure requirements, contractual obligations, commitments, debt service requirements, and other liquidity requirements associated with our operations for at least the next 12 months. We expect to return excess cash generated by operations to our stockholders through repurchases of our common stock and payment of cash dividends, after taking into account our operating and strategic cash needs.
Statements of Cash Flows
Stock Repurchase Programs, Treasury Shares, and Dividends on Common Stock
As described in Note 8 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report, during the first three months of fiscal 2020 we continued to repurchase shares of our common stock under repurchase programs that our Board of Directors has authorized. At October 31, 2019, we had authorization from our Board of Directors to expend up to an additional $2.5 billion for stock repurchases. We currently expect to continue repurchasing our common stock on a quarterly basis; however, future stock repurchases under the current program are at the discretion of management, and authorization of future stock repurchase programs is subject to the final determination of our Board of Directors.
  Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2020 Form 10-Q 33  
outstanding common stock payable on January 21, 2020 to stockholders of record at the close of business on January 10, 2020. We currently expect to continue paying comparable cash dividends on a quarterly basis; however, future declarations of dividends and the establishment of future record dates and payment dates are subject to the final determination of our Board of Directors.
On May 2, 2019 we entered into an amended and restated credit agreement with certain institutional lenders for a credit facility with an aggregate principal amount of $1.4 billion, including a $400 million unsecured term loan that matures on February 1, 2021 and a $1 billion unsecured revolving credit facility that matures on May 2, 2024. This agreement amended and restated our prior unsecured revolving credit facility dated February 1, 2016.
Under the amended and restated credit agreement we may, subject to certain customary conditions, on one or more occasions increase commitments under the unsecured revolving credit facility in an amount not to exceed $250 million in the aggregate and may extend the maturity date up to two times. Advances under the unsecured revolving credit facility accrue interest at rates that are equal to, at our election, either Bank of America's alternate base rate plus a margin that ranges from 0.0% to 0.1% or the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus a margin that ranges from 0.69% to 1.1%. Actual margins under either election will be based on our senior debt credit ratings. At October 31, 2019, no amounts were outstanding under the unsecured revolving credit facility. We monitor counterparty risk associated with the institutional lenders that are providing the credit facility. We currently believe that the credit facility will be available to us should we choose to borrow under it.
On May 2, 2019 $400 million was outstanding on the term loan under the amended and restated credit agreement. Under this agreement we may, subject to certain customary conditions, on one or more occasions increase commitments under the term loan in an amount not to exceed $400 million in the aggregate. The term loan accrues interest at rates that are equal to, at our election, either Bank of America's alternate base rate plus a margin that ranges from 0.0% to 0.125% or LIBOR plus a margin that ranges from 0.625% to 1.125%. Actual margins under either election will be based on our senior debt credit ratings. The term loan is subject to quarterly principal payments of $12.5 million with the balance payable on February 1, 2021. At October 31, 2019, $375 million was outstanding under the term loan.
The amended and restated credit agreement includes customary affirmative and negative covenants, including financial covenants that require us to maintain a ratio of total debt to annual earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) of not greater than 3.25 to 1.00 as of any date and a ratio of annual EBITDA to annual interest expense of not less than 3.00 to 1.00 as of the last day of each fiscal quarter. As of October 31, 2019 we were compliant with all required covenants.
On February 19, 2019, a subsidiary of Intuit entered into a $300 million secured revolving credit facility with a lender. The revolving credit facility is secured by cash and receivables of the subsidiary and is non-recourse to Intuit Inc. Advances under this secured revolving credit facility are used to fund a portion of our loans to qualified small businesses. The secured revolving credit facility is available for use for a term of two years and accrues interest at LIBOR plus 2.39%. Unused portions of the credit facility accrue interest at a rate of 0.50%. Outstanding advances mature on August 19, 2021 and payments made prior to February 19, 2020 are subject to a 1% prepayment fee. The agreement includes certain affirmative and negative covenants, including financial covenants that require the subsidiary to maintain specified financial ratios. As of October 31, 2019 we were compliant with all required covenants. At October 31, 2019, $48 million was outstanding under this facility, with a weighted-average interest rate of 7.39%, which includes the unused facility fee. The outstanding balance is secured by cash and receivables of the subsidiary totaling $105 million. 
Cash Held by Foreign Subsidiaries
  Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2020 Form 10-Q 34  
At October 31, 2019, we did not have any significant off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K.
We presented our contractual obligations at July 31, 2019 in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year then ended. There were no significant changes to our contractual obligations during the first three months of fiscal 2020.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
  Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2020 Form 10-Q 35  
Purchases of Equity Securities By The Issuer And Affiliated Purchasers
See the Exhibit Index immediately following the signature page of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
  Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2020 Form 10-Q 50  
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
  Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2020 Form 10-Q 51  
  Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2020 Form 10-Q 52
