  Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 4  
  Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 5  
  Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 6  
  Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 7  
  Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 8  
1. Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Description of Business
Intuit helps consumers, small businesses, and the self-employed prosper by delivering financial management and compliance products and services. We also provide specialized tax products to accounting professionals, who are key partners that help us reach small business customers.
Our flagship brands, QuickBooks and TurboTax, help customers run their small businesses, pay employees and send invoices, separate business and personal expenses, track their money, and file income taxes. ProSeries and Lacerte are our leading tax preparation offerings for professional accountants. Incorporated in 1984 and headquartered in Mountain View, California, we sell our products and services primarily in the United States.
Basis of Presentation
These condensed consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of Intuit and its wholly owned subsidiaries. We have eliminated all significant intercompany balances and transactions in consolidation. We have included all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring items, which we considered necessary for a fair presentation of our financial results for the interim periods presented.
These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes should be read together with the audited consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2018. Results for the three months ended October 31, 2018 do not necessarily indicate the results we expect for the fiscal year ending July 31, 2019 or any other future period.
Our Consumer and Strategic Partner offerings have a significant and distinct seasonal pattern as sales and revenue from our income tax preparation products and services are heavily concentrated in the period from November through April. This seasonal pattern results in higher net revenues during our second and third quarters ending January 31 and April 30, respectively.
We describe our significant accounting policies in Note 1 to the financial statements in Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2018. See the discussion of changes to our revenue recognition policy for the adoption of Topic 606, the new revenue recognition standard, below. There have been no other changes to our significant accounting policies during the first three months of fiscal 2019.
Revenue Recognition 
We derive revenue from the sale of packaged software products, software subscriptions, hosted services, payroll services, merchant payment processing services, financial supplies and hardware. We enter into contracts with customers that include promises to transfer various products and services, which are generally capable of being distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations. Revenue is recognized when the promised goods or services are transferred to customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration allocated to the respective performance obligation. 
  Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 9  
Our desktop offerings consist of our QuickBooks Desktop products, which include both packaged software products and software subscriptions, our consumer and professional tax desktop products, which include TurboTax, Lacerte and ProSeries, our desktop payroll products, and merchant payment processing services for small businesses who use our desktop offerings.
Our QuickBooks Desktop packaged software products include a perpetual software license as well as enhancements and connected services. We recognize revenue for our QuickBooks Desktop packaged software products at the time the software license is delivered. We have determined that the enhancements and connected services included in our QuickBooks Desktop packaged software products are immaterial within the context of the contract.
Our QuickBooks Desktop software subscriptions include a term software license, version protection, enhancements, support and various connected services. We recognize revenue for the software license and version protection at the time they are delivered and recognize revenue for support and connected services over the subscription term as the services are provided. We have determined that the enhancements included in our QuickBooks Desktop software subscriptions are immaterial within the context of the contract. 
Our consumer and professional tax desktop products include an on-premise tax software license, related tax form updates, electronic filing service and connected services. We recognize revenue for the software license and related tax form updates, as one performance obligation, over the period the forms and updates are delivered. We recognize revenue for our electronic filings service and connected services as those services are provided. 
We also sell some of our QuickBooks Desktop products and consumer tax desktop products in non-consignment and consignment arrangements to certain retailers. For non-consignment retailers, we begin recognizing revenue when control has transferred to the retailer. For consignment retailers, we begin recognizing revenue when control has transferred to the customer, at the time the end-user sale has occurred. 
Our desktop payroll products are sold as software subscriptions and include a term software license with a stand-ready obligation to maintain compliance with current payroll tax laws, support and connected services. The term software license and stand-ready obligation to maintain compliance with current payroll tax laws is considered one performance obligation. Each of the performance obligations is considered distinct and control is transferred to the customer over the subscription term. As a result, revenue is recognized ratably over the subscription term as services are provided. 
We offer merchant payment processing services as a separately paid connected service for our QuickBooks Desktop packaged software products and software subscriptions, and revenue is recognized as the services are provided to the customers. 
Our online offerings include our TurboTax Online products, ProConnect Tax Online products, QuickBooks Online products, online payroll products, and merchant payment processing services for small businesses who use our online offerings.
These online offerings provide customers with the right to use the hosted software over the contract period without taking possession of the software and are billed on either a subscription or consumption basis. Revenue related to our online offerings that are billed on a subscription basis is recognized ratably over the contract period. Revenue related to online offerings that are billed on a consumption basis, is recognized when the customer consumes the related service. 
Revenue from the sale of our financial supplies, such as printed check stock, and hardware, such as retail point-of-sale equipment and credit card readers for mobile phones, is recognized when control is transferred to the customer which is generally when the products are shipped.
We also have revenue-sharing and royalty arrangements with third-party partners and recognize this revenue as earned based upon reporting provided to us by our partners. In instances where we do not have reporting from our partners, we estimate revenue based on information available to us at the time.
Product Revenue and Service and Other Revenue
We record revenue net of sales tax obligations. For payroll services, we generally require customers to remit payroll tax funds to us in advance of the payroll date via electronic funds transfer. We include in total net revenue the interest earned on these funds between the time that we collect them from customers and the time that we remit them to outside parties. Revenue for 
  Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 10  
electronic payment processing services that we provide to merchants is recorded net of interchange fees charged by credit card associations.
Significant Judgments
Our contracts with customers often include promises to transfer multiple products and services to a customer. In determining how revenue should be recognized, a five-step process is used, which requires judgment and estimates. These judgments and estimates include identifying performance obligations in the contract, determining whether the performance obligations are distinct, determining the standalone sales price (SSP) for each distinct performance obligation, determining the timing of revenue recognition for distinct performance obligations and estimating the amount of variable consideration to include in the transaction price. 
The functionality of the software licenses included in our consumer and professional tax and payroll desktop offerings is dependent on the related enhancements and updates included in these offerings. Judgment is required to determine whether the software license is considered distinct and accounted for separately, or not distinct and accounted for together with the related updates and recognized over time.
Our consumer and professional tax desktop products include an on-premise tax software license and related tax form updates that are recognized as the forms and updates are delivered. We measure progress towards complete satisfaction of the software license and related tax form updates using an output method based on the timing of when the tax forms are delivered. 
We generally provide refunds to customers for product returns and subscription cancellations. We also provide promotional discounts and incentive rebates on retail and distribution sales. These refunds, discounts and incentive rebates are accounted for as variable consideration when estimating the amount of revenue to recognize. Refunds are estimated based on historical experience and current business and economic indicators and updated at the end of each reporting period as additional information becomes available to the extent that it is probable that a significant reversal of any incremental revenue will not occur. Discounts and incentive rebates are estimated based on distributors' and retailers' performance against the terms and conditions of the rebate programs.
Deferred Revenue
Generally, we receive payment at the time we enter into a contract with a customer. We record deferred revenue when we have entered into a contract with a customer and cash payments are received or due prior to transfer of control or satisfaction of the related performance obligation. During the three months ended October 31, 2018, we recognized revenue of $327 million that was included in deferred revenue at July 31, 2018. During the three months ended October 31, 2017, we recognized revenue of $339 million that was included in deferred revenue at July 31, 2017.
Our performance obligations are generally satisfied within 12 months of the initial contract date. As of October 31, 2018 and July 31, 2018, the deferred revenue balance related to performance obligations that will be satisfied after 12 months was $2 million and $3 million, respectively, and is included in other long-term obligations on our consolidated balance sheets.
Assets Recognized from the Costs to Obtain a Contract with a Customer
Our internal sales commissions are considered incremental costs of obtaining the contract with a customer. Internal sales commissions for subscription offerings where we expect the benefit of those costs to continue longer than one year are capitalized and amortized ratably over the period of benefit, which ranges from three to four years. Total capitalized costs to obtain a contract are included in prepaid expenses and other current assets and other assets on our consolidated balance sheets.
  Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 11  
Computation of Net Income (Loss) Per Share
We compute basic net income or loss per share using the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. We compute diluted net income per share using the weighted average number of common shares and dilutive potential common shares outstanding during the period. Dilutive potential common shares consist of the shares issuable upon the exercise of stock options and upon the vesting of restricted stock units (RSUs) under the treasury stock method.
We include stock options with combined exercise prices and unrecognized compensation expense that are less than the average market price for our common stock, and RSUs with unrecognized compensation expense that is less than the average market price for our common stock, in the calculation of diluted net income per share. We exclude stock options with combined exercise prices and unrecognized compensation expense that are greater than the average market price for our common stock, and RSUs with unrecognized compensation expense that is greater than the average market price for our common stock, from the calculation of diluted net income per share because their effect is anti-dilutive. Under the treasury stock method, the amount that must be paid to exercise stock options and the amount of compensation expense for future service that we have not yet recognized for stock options and RSUs are assumed to be used to repurchase shares.
All of the RSUs we grant have dividend rights. Dividend rights are accumulated and paid when the underlying RSUs vest. Since the dividend rights are subject to the same vesting requirements as the underlying equity awards they are considered a contingent transfer of value. Consequently, the RSUs are not considered participating securities and we do not present them separately in earnings per share. 
In loss periods, basic net loss per share and diluted net loss per share are the same since the effect of potential common shares is anti-dilutive and therefore excluded.
  Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 12  
The following table presents the composition of shares used in the computation of basic and diluted net income per share for the periods indicated.
Notes receivable consist of term loans to small businesses and are included in prepaid expenses and other current assets on our consolidated balance sheets. As of October 31, 2018 and July 31, 2018, the notes receivable balance was $79 million and $55 million, respectively, and the allowance for loan losses were not significant. The term loans are not secured and are recorded at amortized cost, net of allowances for loan losses. We maintain an allowance for loan losses to reserve for potentially uncollectible notes receivable. We evaluate the creditworthiness of our loan portfolio on a pooled basis due to its composition of small, homogeneous loans with similar general credit risk and characteristics and apply a loss rate at the time of loan origination. The loss rate and underlying model are updated periodically to reflect actual loan performance and changes in assumptions. We make judgments about the known and inherent risks in the loan portfolio, adverse situations that may affect borrowers’ ability to repay and current economic conditions. When we determine that amounts are uncollectible, we write them off against the allowance.
Concentration of Credit Risk and Significant Customers
No customer accounted for 10% or more of total net revenue in the three months ended October 31, 2018 or October 31, 2017. No customer accounted for 10% or more of gross accounts receivable at October 31, 2018 or July 31, 2018.
  Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 13  
recognition of current and deferred income taxes for an intra-entity asset transfer until the asset had been sold to an outside party. We adopted this standard in the first quarter of our fiscal year beginning August 1, 2018. The impact of the adoption of ASU 2016-16 on our consolidated financial statements is not material.
Revenue from Contracts with Customers - In May 2014 the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606).” This standard superseded nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under U.S. GAAP. Under this standard, revenue is recognized when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services. This standard also requires additional disclosure about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from customer contracts, including significant judgments and changes in judgments. We adopted this standard in the first quarter of our fiscal year beginning August 1, 2018 using the full retrospective method, which requires us to restate each prior reporting period presented. We have implemented internal controls and processes to enable the preparation of financial information on adoption. 
The most significant impact of the standard relates to the timing and amount of revenue recognized for our QuickBooks Desktop solutions and our consumer and professional tax desktop solutions. Our QuickBooks Desktop solutions include both packaged software products and software subscriptions.
Our QuickBooks Desktop packaged software products include a software license as well as enhancements and connected services. Under the new standard, we recognize revenue for the QuickBooks Desktop packaged software products at the time the software license is delivered rather than ratably over the period that enhancements and connected services are provided, which was approximately three years. We have determined that the enhancements and connected services included in our QuickBooks Desktop packaged software products are immaterial within the context of the contract.
Our QuickBooks Desktop software subscriptions include a software license, version protection, enhancements, support and various connected services. We recognize revenue for the software license and version protection at the time they are delivered and recognize revenue for support and connected services over the subscription term as the services are provided. Previously, we recognized revenue for our QuickBooks Desktop software subscriptions ratably over the subscription term, which is generally one year. We have determined that the enhancements included in our QuickBooks Desktop software subscriptions are immaterial within the context of the contract. 
Our consumer and professional tax desktop solutions include a desktop tax preparation software license, tax form updates, electronic filing and connected services. We recognize revenue for the desktop tax preparation software license and related tax form updates as the forms and updates are delivered and recognize revenue for our electronic filing and connected services as those services are provided. Previously, we recognized all revenue related to tax desktop solutions as services were provided.
We capitalize the incremental costs of obtaining a contract with a customer if we expect the benefit of those costs to be longer than one year, which include internal sales commissions related to our subscription offerings.
The adoption of this standard resulted in a decrease in deferred revenue and long-term deferred income taxes, primarily due to the change in revenue recognition for our QuickBooks Desktop and professional tax desktop solutions. Additionally, the adoption of the standard resulted in the recognition of additional revenue and a decrease in the income tax benefit, primarily due to the net change in revenue recognition for our QuickBooks Desktop and professional tax desktop solutions. Our prepaid expenses and other current assets and other assets balances increased due to the capitalized costs to obtain a contract. 
  Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 14  
Adoption of Topic 606 had no impact to cash from or used in operating, financing, or investing on our consolidated statements of cash flows.
Financial Instruments - In June 2016 the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, “Financial Instruments—Credit Losses (Topic 326).” This standard requires the measurement of all expected credit losses for financial assets held at the reporting date based on historical experience, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts. The standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, including interim periods within those fiscal years, which means that it will be effective for us in the first quarter of our fiscal year beginning August 1, 2020. Earlier adoption is permitted in the first quarter of our fiscal year beginning August 1, 2019. We are currently evaluating the impact of our pending adoption of ASU 2016-13 on our consolidated financial statements.
Leases - In February 2016 the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, “Leases (Topic 842).” This standard amends a number of aspects of lease accounting, including requiring lessees to recognize operating leases with a term greater than one year on their balance sheet as a right-of-use asset and corresponding lease liability, measured at the present value of the lease payments. The standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years, 
which means that it will be effective for us in the first quarter of our fiscal year beginning August 1, 2019. Early adoption is permitted. This standard is required to be adopted using a modified retrospective approach. We expect to elect certain available transitional practical expedients. In July 2018 the FASB issued ASU 2018-11, “Leases (Topic 842) Targeted Improvements," which allows for the adoption of this standard to be applied at the beginning of the most recent fiscal year as opposed to at the beginning of the earliest year presented. We plan to adopt under the provisions allowed under ASU 2018-11. While we continue to evaluate the impact of our pending adoption of ASU 2016-02 on our consolidated financial statements, we expect that the real estate and equipment leases designated as operating leases as discussed in Note 9 to the financial statements in Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2018 will be recognized as right-of-use assets and corresponding lease liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets upon adoption. We do not expect the adoption of ASU 2016-02 to have a material impact on our consolidated statements of operations. 
We do not expect that any other recently issued accounting pronouncements will have a significant effect on our financial statements.
The authoritative guidance defines fair value as the price that would be received from the sale of an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. When determining fair value, we consider the principal or most advantageous market for an asset or liability and assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability. In addition, we consider and use all valuation methods that are appropriate in estimating the fair value of an asset or liability.
•Level 1 uses unadjusted quoted prices that are available in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
•Level 2 uses inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1 that are either directly or indirectly observable through correlation with market data. These include quoted prices in active markets for similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active; and inputs to valuation models or other pricing methodologies that do not require significant judgment because the inputs used in the model, such as interest rates and volatility, can be corroborated by readily observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.
•Level 3 uses one or more unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the determination of fair value. Level 3 assets and liabilities include those whose fair values are determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies or similar valuation techniques and significant management judgment or estimation.
  Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 16  
Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis
The following table summarizes financial assets and financial liabilities that we measured at fair value on a recurring basis at the dates indicated, classified in accordance with the fair value hierarchy described above. 
The following table summarizes our cash equivalents and available-for-sale debt securities by balance sheet classification and level in the fair value hierarchy at the dates indicated.
We value our Level 1 assets, consisting primarily of money market funds and savings deposit accounts, using quoted prices in active markets for identical instruments. Financial assets whose fair values we measure on a recurring basis using Level 2 inputs consist of municipal bonds, corporate notes, and U.S. agency securities. We measure the fair values of these assets with the help of a pricing service that either provides quoted market prices in active markets for identical or similar securities or uses observable inputs for their pricing without applying significant adjustments. Our fair value processes include controls that are designed to ensure that we record appropriate fair values for our Level 2 investments. These controls include comparison to pricing provided by a secondary pricing service or investment manager, validation of pricing sources and models, review of key model inputs, analysis of period-over-period price fluctuations, and independent recalculation of prices where appropriate. 
There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy during the three months ended October 31, 2018.
We consider highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less at the date of purchase to be cash equivalents. In all periods presented, cash equivalents consist primarily of money market funds and savings deposit accounts, investments consist primarily of investment-grade available-for-sale debt securities, and funds held for customers consist of cash and cash equivalents and investment-grade available-for-sale debt securities. Except for direct obligations of the United States government, securities issued by agencies of the United States government, and money market funds, we diversify our investments in debt securities by limiting our holdings with any individual issuer.
  Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 17  
The following table summarizes our cash and cash equivalents, investments, and funds held for customers by balance sheet classification at the dates indicated.
The following table summarizes our cash and cash equivalents, investments, and funds held for customers by investment category at the dates indicated. 
The following table summarizes our available-for-sale debt securities, included in investments and funds held for customers, classified by the stated maturity date of the security at the dates indicated.
  Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 18  
Funds held for customers represent cash held on behalf of our customers that is invested in cash and cash equivalents and investment grade available-for-sale securities, restricted for use solely for the purpose of satisfying amounts we owe on behalf of our customers, such as direct deposit payroll funds and payroll taxes.
The following table summarizes our funds held for customers by investment category at the dates indicated.
  Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 19  
The master credit agreement we entered into on February 1, 2016 includes a $1 billion unsecured revolving credit facility that will expire on February 1, 2021. Under the master credit agreement we may, subject to certain customary conditions, on one or more occasions increase commitments under the revolving credit facility in an amount not to exceed $250 million in the aggregate and may extend the maturity date up to two times. Advances under the revolving credit facility accrue interest at rates that are equal to, at our election, either Bank of America's alternate base rate plus a margin that ranges from 0.0% to 0.5% or the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus a margin that ranges from 0.9% to 1.5%. Actual margins under either election will be based on our senior debt credit ratings. The master credit agreement includes customary affirmative and negative covenants, including financial covenants that require us to maintain a ratio of total debt to annual earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) of not greater than 3.25 to 1.00 as of any date and a ratio of annual EBITDA to annual interest expense of not less than 3.00 to 1.00 as of the last day of each fiscal quarter. We remained in compliance with these covenants at all times during the quarter ended October 31, 2018. At October 31, 2018 no amounts were outstanding under this revolving credit facility. We paid no amount for interest on the revolving credit facility during the three months ended October 31, 2018 and $1 million during the three months ended October 31, 2017.
Other Current Liabilities
5. Long-Term Obligations and Commitments
On February 1, 2016 we entered into a master credit agreement with certain institutional lenders for a five-year credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of $1.5 billion, which includes a $500 million unsecured term loan. Under the master credit agreement we may, subject to certain customary conditions, on one or more occasions increase commitments under the term loan in an amount not to exceed $500 million in the aggregate. The term loan accrues interest at rates that are equal to, at our election, either Bank of America's alternate base rate plus a margin that ranges from 0.125% to 0.875% or LIBOR plus a margin that ranges from 1.125% to 1.875%. Actual margins under either election will be based on our senior debt credit ratings. The master credit agreement includes customary affirmative and negative covenants. See Note 4, “Current Liabilities – Unsecured Revolving Credit Facility,” for more information. The term loan is subject to quarterly principal payments, which began in July 
  Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 20  
Other Long-Term Obligations
We describe our operating lease commitments and purchase obligations in Note 9 to the financial statements in Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2018. There were no significant changes in our operating lease commitments or purchase obligations during the three months ended October 31, 2018.
Effective Tax Rate
We recognized excess tax benefits on share-based compensation of $41 million and $25 million in our provision for income taxes for the three months ended October 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
  Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 21  
Unrecognized Tax Benefits and Other Considerations
Stock Repurchase Programs and Treasury Shares
Intuit’s Board of Directors has authorized a series of common stock repurchase programs. Shares of common stock repurchased under these programs become treasury shares. We repurchased 467,000 shares for $101 million under these programs during the three months ended October 31, 2018. Included in this amount were $6 million of repurchases which occurred in late October 2018 and were settled in early November 2018. At October 31, 2018, we had authorization from our Board of Directors to expend up to an additional $3.1 billion for stock repurchases. Future stock repurchases under the current programs are at the discretion of management, and authorization of future stock repurchase programs is subject to the final determination of our Board of Directors.
Dividends on Common Stock
During the three months ended October 31, 2018 we declared and paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.47 per share of outstanding common stock for a total of $129 million. In November 2018 our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.47 per share of outstanding common stock payable on January 18, 2019 to stockholders of record at the close of business on January 10, 2019. Future declarations of dividends and the establishment of future record dates and payment dates are subject to the final determination of our Board of Directors.
  Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 22  
Share-Based Compensation Expense
The following table summarizes the total share-based compensation expense that we recorded in operating loss for the periods shown.
We capitalized $1 million in share-based compensation related to internal use software projects during the three months ended October 31, 2018 and $1 million during the three months ended October 31, 2017.
Stock Option Activity and Related Share-Based Compensation Expense
At October 31, 2018, there was approximately $54 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested stock options with a weighted average vesting period of 2.4 years. We will adjust unrecognized compensation cost for actual forfeitures as they occur.
  Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 23  
Restricted Stock Unit Activity and Related Share-Based Compensation Expense
At October 31, 2018, there was approximately $712 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested RSUs with a weighted average vesting period of 2.6 years. We will adjust unrecognized compensation cost for actual forfeitures as they occur.
In fiscal 2015 Intuit was contacted by certain state and federal regulatory authorities in connection with inquiries regarding an increase during the 2015 tax season in attempts by criminals using stolen identity information to file fraudulent tax returns and claim refunds. Intuit provided information in response to those inquiries and now believes those inquiries are resolved.
A consolidated putative class action lawsuit was filed by individuals who claim to have suffered damages in connection with the 2015 events. On May 23, 2018, the parties reached a settlement in principle of this matter. The settlement has been preliminarily approved and remains subject to final approval by the court. The terms of the settlement are not material to our consolidated financial statements. In the event the settlement does not receive final approval by the court, the litigation may resume and we may not be able to predict the outcome of such lawsuit. We continue to believe that the allegations in this lawsuit are without merit.
We have defined our three reportable segments, described below, based on factors such as how we manage our operations and how our chief operating decision maker views results. We define the chief operating decision maker as our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer. Our chief operating decision maker organizes and manages our business primarily on the basis of product and service offerings.
All of our segments operate primarily in the United States and sell primarily to customers in the United States. International total net revenue was less than 5% of consolidated total net revenue for all periods presented.
  Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 24  
We include expenses such as corporate selling and marketing, product development, general and administrative, and share-based compensation, which are not allocated to specific segments, in unallocated corporate items. Unallocated corporate items also include amortization of acquired technology, amortization of other acquired intangible assets, and goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges.
The following table shows our financial results by reportable segment for the periods indicated.
Revenue from our QuickBooks Desktop packaged software products was $29 million and $30 million during the three months ended October 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and is included in the QuickBooks Desktop Accounting revenue presented in the table above.
  Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 25  
See Note 8 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a description of legal proceedings.
We face intense competition in all of our businesses, and we expect competition to remain intense in the future. Our competitors and potential competitors range from large and established entities to emerging start-ups. Our competitors may introduce superior products and services, reduce prices, have greater technical, marketing and other resources, have greater name recognition, have larger installed bases of customers, have well-established relationships with our current and potential customers, advertise aggressively or beat us to market with new products and services. In addition, we may face competition from existing companies, with large established consumer user-bases and broad-based platforms, who may change or expand the focus of their business strategies and marketing to target our customers, including small businesses and tax customers. 
We also face competition from companies with a variety of business models and monetization strategies, including increased competition from providers of free offerings, particularly in our tax, accounting, and payments businesses. In order to compete, we have also introduced free offerings in several categories, but we may not be able to attract customers as effectively as competitors with different business models. In addition, we may not be able to monetize our free offerings if other providers of free offerings provide features that we do not offer and customers who have formerly paid for Intuit’s products and services may elect to use our competitors’ free offerings instead. These competitive factors may diminish our revenue and profitability, and harm our ability to acquire and retain customers.
Our consumer tax business also faces significant competition from the public sector, where we face the risk of federal and state taxing authorities proposing revenue raising strategies that involve developing and providing government tax software or other government return preparation systems at public expense. These or similar programs may be introduced or expanded in the future, which may change the voluntary compliance tax system in ways that could cause us to lose customers and revenue. The IRS Free File Program is currently the sole means by which the IRS offers tax software to taxpayers, and as part of the program the IRS has agreed it will not offer a duplicative or competing service. Under this program, the IRS has worked with private industry to provide more than 50 million free returns since 2003, utilizing donated private sector tax software and e-filing services for low and middle income taxpayers at no cost to the government or individual users. However, its continuation depends on a number of factors, including increasing public awareness of and access to the free program, as well as continued government support. The current agreement is scheduled to expire in October 2021. If the Free File Program were to be terminated and the IRS were to enter the software development and return preparation space, the federal government would become a publicly funded direct competitor of the U.S. tax services industry and of Intuit. Government funded services that curtail or eliminate the role of taxpayers in preparing their own taxes could potentially have material and adverse revenue implications. 
Online offerings, desktop software and mobile technology industries are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and frequent new product introductions. We must continue to innovate and develop new products and features to meet changing customer needs and attract and retain talented software developers. We need to continue to develop our skills, tools and capabilities to capitalize on existing and emerging technologies, which require us to devote significant resources.
The number of people who access products and services through devices other than personal computers, including mobile phones, smartphones, and handheld computers such as tablets, continues to increase. We have devoted significant resources to develop products and services for users of these alternative devices, but the versions of our products and services developed for these devices may not be compelling to users. Even if we are able to attract new users through these mobile offerings, the amount of revenue that we derive per user from mobile offerings may be less than the revenue that we have historically derived from users of personal computers. As new devices and new platforms are continually being released, it is difficult to predict the problems we may encounter in developing versions of our products and services for use on these alternative devices and we may need to devote significant resources to the creation, support, and maintenance of such offerings. If we are slow to develop products and technologies that are compatible with these alternative devices, or if our competitors are able to achieve those results more quickly than us, we will fail to capture a significant share of an increasingly important portion of the market for online services, which could adversely affect our business. Further, legislation or regulatory changes may mandate changes in our products that make them less attractive to users. 
Some of our offerings include third-party software that is licensed under so-called “open source” licenses, some of which may include a requirement that, under certain circumstances, we make available, or grant licenses to, any modifications or derivative works we create based upon the open source software. Although we have established internal review and approval processes to mitigate these risks, we may not be sure that all open source software is submitted for approval prior to use in our products. Many of the risks associated with usage of open source may not be eliminated, and may, if not properly addressed, harm our business.
  Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 41  
Policing unauthorized use and copying of our products is difficult, expensive, and time consuming. Current U.S. laws that prohibit copying give us only limited practical protection from software piracy and the laws of many other countries provide very little protection. We frequently encounter unauthorized copies of our software being sold through online marketplaces. Although we continue to evaluate and put in place technology solutions to attempt to lessen the impact of piracy and engage in efforts to educate consumers and public policy leaders on these issues and cooperate with industry groups in their efforts to combat piracy, we expect piracy to be a persistent problem that results in lost revenues and increased expenses.
Our business depends on our strong reputation and the value of our brands.
•inability to successfully integrate the acquired technology, data assets and operations into our business and maintain uniform standards, controls, policies, and procedures;
•inability to realize synergies expected to result from an acquisition;
•disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management;
•challenges retaining the key employees, customers, resellers and other business partners of the acquired operation;
•the internal control environment of an acquired entity may not be consistent with our standards or with regulatory requirements, and may require significant time and resources to align or rectify;
•failure to successfully further develop an acquired business or technology and any resulting impairment of amounts currently capitalized as intangible assets; 
•in the case of foreign acquisitions and investments, the impact of particular economic, tax, currency, political, legal and regulatory risks associated with specific countries.
•inability to find potential buyers on favorable terms;
•failure to effectively transfer liabilities, contracts, facilities and employees to buyers;
•requirements that we retain or indemnify buyers against certain liabilities and obligations;
•inability to reduce fixed costs previously associated with the divested assets or business; 
•disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management; 
•loss of key employees who leave the Company as a result of a divestiture; and
  Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 42  
We host, collect, use and retain large amounts of sensitive and personal customer and employee data, including credit card information, tax return information, bank account numbers, login credentials and passwords, personal and business financial data and transactions data, social security numbers and payroll information, as well as our confidential, nonpublic business information. We use commercially available security technologies and security and business controls to limit access to and use of such sensitive data. Although we expend significant resources to create security protections designed to shield this data against potential theft and security breaches, such measures cannot provide absolute security. 
Our technologies, systems, and networks have been subject to, and are likely to continue to be the target of, cyberattacks, computer viruses, worms, phishing attacks, malicious software programs, and other cybersecurity incidents that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, use, loss or destruction of our customers’ or employees’ sensitive and personal data, or Intuit's sensitive business data or cause temporary or sustained unavailability of our software and systems. These types of attacks can be made by individuals, groups of hackers, and sophisticated organizations including state-sponsored organizations or nation-states themselves. Customers who fail to update their systems, continue to run software that we no longer support or that fail to install security patches on a timely basis create vulnerabilities and make it more difficult for us to detect and prevent these kinds of attacks. We are increasingly incorporating open source software into our products. There may be vulnerabilities in open source software that make it susceptible to cyberattacks. In addition, because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to sensitive information change frequently, and are becoming more sophisticated and are often not able to be detected until after a successful attack, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventive measures. Although this is an industry-wide problem that affects software and hardware across platforms, it may increasingly affect our offerings because cyber-criminals tend to focus their efforts on well-known offerings that are popular among customers and hold sensitive information and we expect them to continue to do so. 
Further, the security measures that we implement may not be able to prevent unauthorized access to our products and our customers’ account data. Third parties may fraudulently induce employees, customers, or users by means such as email phishing, to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our systems. It is also possible that unauthorized access to or disclosure of customer data may occur due to inadequate use of security controls by our customers or our employees. Accounts created with weak or recycled passwords could allow cyberattackers to gain access to customer data. Unauthorized persons could gain access to customer accounts if customers do not maintain effective access controls of their systems and software.
Criminals may also use stolen identity information obtained outside of our systems, to gain unauthorized access to our customers’ data. We have experienced such instances in the past and as the accessibility of stolen identity information increases, generally, we may experience further instances of unauthorized access to our systems using our customers’ or employees’ stolen identity information in the future. Further, our customers may choose to use the same user ID and password across multiple products and services unrelated to our products. Such customers’ login credentials may be stolen from products offered by third party service providers unrelated to us and the stolen identity information may be used by a malicious third party to access our products, which could result in disclosure of confidential information. 
Our efforts to protect data may also be unsuccessful due to software bugs (whether open source or proprietary code), break-ins, employee error or other threats that evolve. 
  Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 43  
We depend on a number of third parties, including vendors, developers and partners who are critical to our business. We or our customers may grant access to customer data to these third parties to help deliver customer benefits, or to host certain of our and our customers' sensitive and personal data. In addition, we share sensitive, nonpublic business information (including, for example, materials relating to financial, business and legal strategies) with other vendors in the ordinary course of business. 
Concerns about the current privacy and cybersecurity environment, generally, could deter current and potential customers from adopting our products and services and damage our reputation.
The continued occurrence of cyberattacks and data breaches on governments, businesses and consumers in general, indicates that we operate in an external environment where cyberattacks and data breaches are becoming increasingly common. If the global cybersecurity environment worsens, and there are increased instances of security breaches of third-party offerings where consumers’ data and sensitive information is compromised, consumers may be less willing to use online offerings, particularly offerings like ours in which customers often share sensitive financial data. In addition, the increased availability of data obtained as a result of breaches of third-party offerings could make our own products more vulnerable to fraudulent activity. Even if our products are not affected directly by such incidents, they could damage our reputation and deter current and potential customers from adopting our products and services or lead customers to cease using online and connected software products to transact financial business altogether.
The online tax preparation, payroll administration and online payments industries have been experiencing an increasing amount of fraudulent activities by third parties, and those fraudulent activities are becoming increasingly sophisticated. Although we do not believe that any of this activity is uniquely targeted at our products or business, this type of fraudulent activity may adversely impact our tax, payroll, and payments businesses. In addition to any losses that may result from such fraud, which may be substantial, a loss of confidence by our customers or by governmental agencies in our ability to prevent fraudulent activity that is perpetrated through our offerings may seriously harm our business and damage our brand. If we cannot adequately combat such fraudulent activity that is perpetrated through our tax offerings, governmental authorities may refuse to allow us to continue to offer such services, which could include federal or state tax authorities refusing to allow us to process our customers’ tax returns electronically, resulting in a significant adverse impact on our earnings and revenue. As fraudulent activities become more pervasive and increasingly sophisticated, and fraud detection and prevention measures must become correspondingly more complex to combat them across the various industries in which we operate, we may implement risk control mechanisms that could make it more difficult for legitimate customers to obtain and use our products, which could result in lost revenue and negatively impact our earnings.
  Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 44  
Our operations process a significant volume and dollar value of transactions on a daily basis, especially in our payroll and payments businesses. Despite our efforts to ensure that effective processing systems and controls are in place to handle transactions appropriately, it is possible that we may make errors or that funds may be misappropriated due to fraud. The systems supporting our business are comprised of multiple technology platforms that are sometimes difficult to scale. If we are unable to effectively manage our systems and processes, or if there is an error in our products, we may be unable to process customer data in an accurate, reliable and timely manner, which may harm our reputation, the willingness of customers to use our products, and our financial results. In our payments processing service business, if merchants for whom we process payment transactions are unable to pay refunds due to their customers in connection with disputed or fraudulent merchant transactions, we may be required to pay those amounts and our payments may exceed the amount of the customer reserves we have established to make such payments.
Our reputation and ability to attract, retain and serve our customers is dependent upon the reliable performance of our products and our underlying technical infrastructure. As we continue to grow our online services, we become more dependent on the continuing operation and availability of our information technology and communications systems and those of our external service providers, including, for example, third-party Internet-based or cloud computing services. We do not have redundancy for all of our systems, and our disaster recovery planning may not account for all eventualities. We have designed a significant portion of our software and computer systems to utilize data processing and storage capabilities provided by Amazon Web Services (AWS). If AWS is unavailable to us for any reason, our customers may not be able to access certain of our cloud products or features, which could significantly impact our operations, business, and financial results.
Our business operations, data centers, information technology and communications systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, human error, malicious attacks, fire, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, computer denial of service attacks, terrorist attacks and other events beyond our control. In addition, our corporate headquarters and other critical business operations are located near major seismic faults. In the event of a major natural or man-made disaster, our insurance coverage may not completely compensate us for our losses and our future financial results may be materially harmed.
  Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 45  
Although we have strict standards for our suppliers and business partners to comply with the law and company policies regarding workplace and employment practices, data use and security, environmental compliance, intellectual property licensing and other applicable regulatory and compliance requirements, we cannot control their day-to-day practices. If any of them violate laws or implement practices regarded as unethical, we could experience supply chain disruptions, canceled orders, terminations of or damage to key relationships, and damage to our reputation.
We increasingly utilize the distribution platforms of third parties like Apple’s App Store and Google’s Play Store for the distribution of certain of our product offerings. Although we benefit from the strong brand recognition and large user base of these distribution platforms to attract new customers, the platform owners have wide discretion to change the pricing structure, terms of service and other policies with respect to us and other developers. Any adverse changes by these third parties could adversely affect our financial results. 
Because competition for our key employees is intense, we may not be able to attract, retain and develop the highly skilled employees we need to support our planned growth.
Much of our future success depends on the continued service and availability of skilled personnel, including members of our executive team, and those in technical and other key positions. Experienced personnel in the software, mobile technologies, data science, data security, and software as a service industries are in high demand and competition for their talents is intense, especially in California and India, where the majority of our employees are located. Also, as we strive to continue to adapt to technological change and introduce new and enhanced products and business models, we must be able to secure, maintain and develop the right quality and quantity of engaged and committed talent. The incentives we have available to attract, retain, and motivate employees provided by our equity awards may become less effective, and if we were to issue significant equity to attract additional employees, the ownership of our existing stockholders would be diluted. Although we strive to be an employer of choice, we may not be able to continue to successfully attract, retain and develop key personnel, which may cause our business to suffer.
All of our tax products and many of our non-tax products have rigid development timetables that increase the risk of errors in our products and the risk of launch delays. Our tax preparation software product development cycle is particularly challenging due to the need to incorporate unpredictable and potentially late tax law and tax form changes each year and because our customers expect high levels of accuracy and a timely launch of these products to prepare and file their taxes by the tax filing deadline. Due to the complexity of our products and the condensed development cycles under which we operate, our products may contain errors that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the software or result in incorrect calculations. The complexity of the tax laws on which our products are based may also make it difficult for us to consistently deliver offerings that contain the features, functionality and level of accuracy that our customers expect. When we encounter problems we may be required to modify our code, work with state tax administrators to communicate with affected customers, assist customers with amendments, distribute patches to customers who have already purchased the product and recall or repackage existing product inventory in our distribution channels. If we encounter development challenges or discover errors in our products either late in our development cycle or after release it may cause us to delay our product launch date or suspend product availability until such issues can be fixed. Any major defects, launch delays or product suspensions may lead to loss of customers and revenue, negative publicity, customer and employee dissatisfaction, reduced retailer shelf space and 
  Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 46  
•difficulties in developing, staffing, and simultaneously managing a large number of varying foreign operations as a result of distance, language, and cultural differences;
•credit risk and higher levels of payment fraud;
•profit repatriation restrictions, and foreign currency exchange restrictions;
•compliance with U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials;
•antitrust and competition regulations;
•potentially adverse tax developments;
•economic uncertainties relating to European sovereign and other debt;
•trade barriers and changes in trade regulations; 
•political or social unrest, economic instability, repression, or human rights issues; and
•risks related to other government regulation or required compliance with local laws.
Violations of the rapidly evolving and complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations may result in fines, criminal actions or sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and damage to our reputation. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate our policies. These risks inherent in our international operations and expansion increase our costs of doing business internationally and may result in harm to our business, operating results, and financial condition.
Legal and compliance risks arise from change in the government and regulatory environment, including complex and evolving regulations relating privacy and data security; potential litigation; regulatory inquiries and intellectual property infringement claims. 
The Company is subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations that affect the Company’s activities, including, without limitation, areas of labor, advertising, tax, financial services, data privacy and security, digital content, consumer protection, real estate, billing, e-commerce, promotions, quality of services, intellectual property ownership and infringement, import and export requirements, anti-corruption, foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions, anti-competition, environmental, health and safety. There have been significant new regulations and heightened focus by the government on many of these areas, as well as in areas such as insurance and privacy. As we expand our products and services and revise our business models, both domestically and internationally, we may become subject to additional government regulation or increased regulatory scrutiny. Further, regulators (both in the U.S. and in other jurisdictions in which we operate) may adopt new laws or regulations, change existing regulations, or their interpretation of existing laws or regulations may differ from ours. 
  Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 47  
We are also subject to certain laws and regulations in the U.S. and other jurisdictions relating to electronic funds transfer, money transmission, lending and other regulated activities. In the event laws governing regulated activities change or expand, we may be subject to additional compliance costs. 
Regulations related to the provision of online services is evolving as federal, state and foreign governments continue to adopt new, or modify existing laws and regulations addressing data privacy and the collection, processing, storage, transfer and use of data. This includes, for example, the EU's new regulation, the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and the new California Consumer Protection Act (CCPA), which will become effective on January 1, 2020. In our efforts to meet the GDPR, CCPA and other data privacy regulations, we have made and continue to make certain operational changes to our products and business practices. If we are unable to engineer products that meet these evolving requirements or help our customers meet their obligations under these or other new data regulations, we might experience reduced demand for our offerings. Further, penalties for non-compliance with these laws may be significant. 
In addition, there are global privacy treaties and frameworks that have created compliance uncertainty and increased complexity. For example, the European Commission and the Swiss Government approved the EU-U.S. and Swiss-U.S. Privacy Shield frameworks, respectively, that provide a mechanism for companies to legally transfer personal data from the EU and Switzerland to the U.S. However, these frameworks as well as other personal data transfer mechanisms face a number of legal challenges, both by regulators and private parties. A change in these transfer mechanisms could cause us to incur costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. 
Other governmental authorities throughout the U.S. and around the world are considering similar types of legislative and regulatory proposals concerning data protection. Each of these privacy, security and data protection laws and regulations could impose significant limitations, require changes to our business, require notification to customers or workers of a security breach, restrict our use or storage of personal information, or cause changes in customer purchasing behavior which may make our business more costly, less efficient or impossible to conduct, and may require us to modify our current or future products or services, which may make customers less likely to purchase our products and may harm our future financial results. Additionally, any actual or alleged noncompliance with these laws and regulations could result in negative publicity and subject us to investigations, claims or other remedies, including demands that we modify or cease existing business practices, and expose us to significant fines, penalties and other damages. We have incurred, and may continue to incur, significant expenses to comply with existing privacy and security standards and protocols imposed by law, regulation, industry standards or contractual obligations.
  Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 48  
We are subject to risks associated with information disseminated through our services.
The laws relating to the liability of online services companies for information such as online content disseminated through their services are subject to frequent challenges. In spite of settled law in the U.S., claims are made against online services companies by parties who disagree with the content. Where our online content is accessed on the internet outside of the U.S., challenges may be brought under foreign laws which do not provide the same protections for online services companies as in the U.S. These challenges in either U.S. or foreign jurisdictions may give rise to legal claims alleging defamation, libel, invasion of privacy, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement, or other theories based on the nature and content of the materials disseminated through the services. Certain of our services include content generated by users of our online services. Although this content is not generated by us, claims of defamation or other injury may be made against us for that content. Any costs incurred as a result of this potential liability may harm our business.
Like many software companies we refund customers for product returns and subscription cancellations. We establish reserves against revenue in our financial statements based on estimated customer refunds. We closely monitor this refund activity in an effort to maintain adequate reserves. In the past, customer refunds have not differed significantly from these reserves. However, if we experience actual customer refunds that significantly exceed the amount we have reserved, it may result in lower net revenue.
  Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 49  
We provide capital to small businesses, which exposes us to credit risk, and may cause us material financial or reputational harm.
Amortization of acquired intangible assets and impairment charges may cause significant fluctuation in our net income.
Our acquisitions have resulted in significant expenses, including amortization and impairment of acquired technology and other acquired intangible assets, and impairment of goodwill. Total costs and expenses in these categories were $21 million in fiscal 2018; $14 million in fiscal 2017; and $34 million in fiscal 2016. Although under current accounting rules goodwill is not amortized, we may incur impairment charges related to the goodwill already recorded and to goodwill arising out of future acquisitions. We test the impairment of goodwill annually in our fourth fiscal quarter or more frequently if indicators of impairment arise. The timing of the formal annual test may result in charges to our consolidated statements of operations in our fourth fiscal quarter that may not have been reasonably foreseen in prior periods. At October 31, 2018, we had $1.6 billion in goodwill and $55 million in net acquired intangible assets on our consolidated balance sheet, both of which may be subject to impairment charges in the future. New acquisitions, and any impairment of the value of acquired intangible assets, may have a significant negative impact on our future financial results.
On February 1, 2016, we entered into a master credit agreement with certain institutional lenders for a new five-year credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of $1.5 billion. The master credit agreement includes a $500 million unsecured term loan and a $1 billion unsecured revolving credit facility that will expire on February 1, 2021. As of October 31, 2018, $425 million was outstanding on the term loan and no amounts were outstanding under the revolving credit facility. We may use the proceeds of any advances against the credit facility for general corporate purposes, including future acquisitions and share repurchases.
  Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 50  
•requiring the dedication of a portion of our expected cash from operations to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of expected cash flow available for other purposes, including capital expenditures and acquisitions; and
•limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and our industries.
In addition, changes by any rating agency to our credit rating may negatively impact the value and liquidity of both our debt and equity securities. If our credit ratings are downgraded or other negative action is taken, the interest rate payable by us under our unsecured revolving credit facility may increase. In addition, any downgrades in our credit ratings may affect our ability to obtain additional financing in the future and may affect the terms of any such financing.
We have a stock repurchase program under which we are authorized to repurchase our common stock. The repurchase programs do not have an expiration date and we are not obligated to repurchase a specified number or dollar value of shares. Our repurchase programs may be suspended or terminated at any time and, even if fully implemented, may not enhance long-term stockholder value. Also, the amount, timing, and execution of our stock repurchase programs may fluctuate based on our priorities for the use of cash for other purposes and because of changes in cash flows, tax laws, and the market price of our common stock.
  Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 51  
