We adopted the new accounting standards for revenue recognition effective August 1, 2018. Beginning with the first quarter of our fiscal 2019, our financial results reflect the adoption of the standards with the prior periods restated accordingly. See Note 1 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for more information.
  Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 26  
About Intuit
  Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 27  
Industry Trends and Seasonality
Industry Trends
Our Consumer and Strategic Partner offerings have a significant and distinct seasonal pattern as sales and revenue from our income tax preparation products and services are heavily concentrated in the period from November through April. This seasonal pattern results in higher net revenues during our second and third quarters ending January 31 and April 30, respectively.
Key Challenges and Risks
As we offer more online services, the ongoing operation and availability of our platforms and systems and those of our external service providers is becoming increasingly important. Because we help customers manage their financial lives, we face risks associated with the hosting, collection, use, and retention of personal customer information and data. We are investing significant management attention and resources in our information technology infrastructure and in our privacy and security capabilities, and we expect to continue to do so in the future.
For our consumer and professional tax offerings, we have implemented additional security measures and are continuing to work with state and federal governments to share information regarding suspicious filings. We continue to invest in security measures and to work with the broader industry and government to protect our customers against this type of fraud.
Overview of Financial Results
  Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 28  
Revenue Recognition 
We derive revenue from the sale of packaged software products, software subscriptions, hosted services, payroll services, merchant payment processing services, financial supplies and hardware. Our contracts with customers often include promises to transfer multiple products and services to a customer. In determining how revenue should be recognized, a five-step process is used, which requires judgment and estimates within the revenue recognition process. These judgments and estimates include (1) identifying performance obligations in the contract; (2) determining whether the performance obligations are distinct; (3) determining the standalone sales price (SSP) for each distinct performance obligation; (4) determining the timing of revenue recognition for distinct performance obligations; and (5) estimating the amount of variable consideration to include in the transaction price. If we were to change any of these judgments or estimates, it could cause a material increase or decrease in the amount of revenue we report in a particular period. For additional information, see “Revenue Recognition” in Note 1 to the financial statements in Part 1, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report.
We recorded net income for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 of $34 million compared with a net loss of $2 million in the same quarter of fiscal 2018. During the three months ended October 31, 2018 and 2017, we recognized excess tax benefits on share-based compensation of $41 million and $25 million, respectively, in our provision for income taxes. The increase in excess tax benefits on share-based compensation was primarily due to an increase in stock option exercises during the period and resulted in net income for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to a net loss for the first quarter of fiscal 2018. Diluted net income per share for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was $0.13, compared to a diluted net loss per share of $0.01 in the same quarter of fiscal 2018.
  Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 29  
Segment Results
  Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 30  
Our Online Ecosystem includes revenue from QuickBooks Online and QuickBooks Self-Employed financial and business management offerings; small business payroll services, including QuickBooks Online Payroll, Intuit Online Payroll, Intuit Full Service Payroll; merchant payment processing services for small businesses who use online offerings; and financing for small businesses.
Our Desktop Ecosystem includes revenue from our QuickBooks Desktop packaged software products (Desktop Pro, Desktop for Mac, Desktop Premier, and QuickBooks Point of Sale); QuickBooks Desktop software subscriptions (QuickBooks Desktop Pro Plus, QuickBooks Desktop Premier Plus, and QuickBooks Enterprise, and ProAdvisor Program memberships for the accounting professionals who serve small businesses); desktop payroll products (QuickBooks Basic Payroll, QuickBooks Assisted Payroll and QuickBooks Enhanced Payroll); merchant payment processing services for small businesses who use desktop offerings; and financial supplies.
Segment product revenue is derived from revenue related to software license and version protection for our QuickBooks Desktop products and subscriptions, license and related updates for our desktop payroll products and financial supplies, which are all part of our Desktop Ecosystem. Segment service and other revenue is derived from our Online Ecosystem revenue; and Desktop Ecosystem revenue related to support and connected services for our QuickBooks Desktop and desktop payroll products and subscriptions and merchant payment processing services.
Online Ecosystem revenue increased 42% in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the same period of fiscal 2018. QuickBooks Online revenue increased 46% in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 due to an increase in QuickBooks Online subscribers and average revenue per customer. At October 31, 2018 QuickBooks Online subscribers were 3.6 million, up 41% compared with the same point in time a year ago. Online Services revenue increased 36% in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the same period of fiscal 2018 primarily due to customer growth in online payroll and payments and an increase in revenue from other online services.
Desktop Ecosystem revenue decreased 4% in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the same period of fiscal 2018 primarily due to a decrease in revenue related to the delivery of version protection for our QuickBooks Enterprise customers, which was partially offset by an increase in license revenue related to customer acquisition for our QuickBooks Enterprise offering. QuickBooks Desktop subscribers were up 8% as compared with the same point in time a year ago.
  Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 31  
 Consumer
Consumer segment product revenue is derived primarily from TurboTax desktop tax return preparation software and related form updates.
Consumer segment service and other revenue is derived primarily from TurboTax Online products, electronic tax filing services and connected services, and also from our Mint and Turbo offerings.
Total Consumer segment revenue increased $16 million or 22% in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the same period of fiscal 2018. Due to the seasonal nature of our Consumer offerings, we typically generate nominal revenue from Consumer products and services in our first fiscal quarter compared with our second and third fiscal quarters. The majority of revenue for the first quarter of each fiscal year is for the filing of extended returns for the previous tax year. Because of the seasonality of our Consumer revenue, we do not believe that first quarter revenue in this segment is indicative of revenue trends for the current fiscal year. We will not have substantially complete results for the 2018 tax season until the third quarter of fiscal 2019.
  Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 32  
 Strategic Partner
Strategic Partner segment product revenue is derived primarily from Lacerte, ProSeries, and ProFile desktop tax preparation software products and related form updates.
Strategic Partner segment service and other revenue is derived primarily from ProConnect Tax Online tax products, electronic tax filing service, connected services and, bank products.
Total Strategic Partner segment revenue increased $1 million or 6% in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the same period of fiscal 2018. Due to the seasonal nature of our Strategic Partner offerings, we typically generate nominal revenue from professional tax products and services in our first fiscal quarter compared with our second and third fiscal quarters. The majority of revenue for the first quarter of each fiscal year is for the filing of extended returns for the previous tax year. Because of the seasonality of our Strategic Partner revenue, we do not believe that first quarter revenue in this segment is indicative of revenue trends for the current fiscal year. We will not have substantially complete results for the 2018 tax season until the third quarter of fiscal 2019.
In our first fiscal quarter, Strategic Partner segment typically generates operating losses because revenue is nominal while operating expenses for functions such as research and development and general and administrative expenses continue at relatively consistent levels. We do not believe that Strategic Partner segment operating results for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2018 are indicative of trends for the full fiscal year.
  Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 33  
Total operating expenses as a percentage of total net revenue decreased in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the same period of fiscal 2018. Total net revenue for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased $106 million or 12% while total operating expenses for the quarter increased $32 million or 4%. Total operating expenses increased about $14 million for higher staffing expenses due to higher headcount and about $14 million for higher advertising and marketing programs.
Non-Operating Income and Expenses
Interest Expense
Interest and Other Income, Net
  Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 34  
We recognized excess tax benefits on share-based compensation of $41 million and $25 million in our provision for income taxes in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 and 2018, respectively. The increase in excess tax benefits on share-based compensation was primarily due to an increase in stock option exercises during the first quarter of fiscal 2019. 
At October 31, 2018, our cash, cash equivalents and investments totaled $1.3 billion, a decrease of $384 million from July 31, 2018 due to the factors discussed under “Statements of Cash Flows” below. Our primary sources of liquidity have been cash from operations, which entails the collection of accounts receivable for products and services, and borrowings under our credit facility. In fiscal 2019 our U.S. statutory tax rate decreased to 21% as a result of the 2017 Tax Act, which increased our cash from operations. Our primary uses of cash have been for research and development programs, selling and marketing activities, capital projects, acquisitions of businesses, debt service costs and debt repayment, repurchases of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs, and the payment of cash dividends. As discussed in “Executive Overview – Industry Trends and Seasonality” earlier in this Item 2, our business is subject to significant seasonality. The balance of our cash, cash equivalents, and investments generally fluctuates with that seasonal pattern. We believe the seasonality of our business is likely to continue in the future.
  Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 35  
stockholders through repurchases of our common stock and payment of cash dividends, after taking into account our operating and strategic cash needs.
Statements of Cash Flows
Stock Repurchase Programs, Treasury Shares, and Dividends on Common Stock
As described in Note 7 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report, during the first three months of fiscal 2019 we continued to repurchase shares of our common stock under repurchase programs that our Board of Directors has authorized. At October 31, 2018, we had authorization from our Board of Directors to expend up to an additional $3.1 billion for stock repurchases. We currently expect to continue repurchasing our common stock on a quarterly basis; however, future stock repurchases under the current program are at the discretion of management, and authorization of future stock repurchase programs is subject to the final determination of our Board of Directors.
  Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 36  
On February 1, 2016 we entered into a master credit agreement with certain institutional lenders for a five-year credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of $1.5 billion. The master credit agreement includes a $500 million unsecured term loan and a $1 billion unsecured revolving credit facility that will expire on February 1, 2021. Under the master credit agreement we may, subject to certain customary conditions, on one or more occasions increase commitments under the revolving credit facility in an amount not to exceed $250 million in the aggregate and may extend the maturity date up to two times. Advances under the revolving credit facility accrue interest at rates that are equal to, at our election, either Bank of America's alternate base rate plus a margin that ranges from 0.0% to 0.5% or the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus a margin that ranges from 0.9% to 1.5%. Actual margins under either election will be based on our senior debt credit ratings. At October 31, 2018, no amounts were outstanding under the revolving credit facility. We monitor counterparty risk associated with the institutional lenders that are providing the credit facility. We currently believe that the credit facility will be available to us should we choose to borrow under it.
Under the master credit agreement, we borrowed $500 million in the form of an unsecured term loan on February 1, 2016. We may, subject to certain customary conditions, on one or more occasions increase commitments under the term loan in an amount not to exceed $500 million in the aggregate. The term loan accrues interest at rates that are equal to, at our election, either Bank of America's alternate base rate plus a margin that ranges from 0.125% to 0.875% or LIBOR plus a margin that ranges from 1.125% to 1.875%. Actual margins under either election will be based on our senior debt credit ratings. The term loan is subject to quarterly principal payments, which began in July 2017, of 2.5% of the original loan amount, with the balance payable on February 1, 2021. At October 31, 2018, $425 million was outstanding under the term loan.
The master credit agreement includes customary affirmative and negative covenants, including financial covenants that require us to maintain a ratio of total debt to annual earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) of not greater than 3.25 to 1.00 as of any date and a ratio of annual EBITDA to annual interest expense of not less than 3.00 to 1.00 as of the last day of each fiscal quarter. We remained in compliance with these covenants at all times during the quarter ended October 31, 2018.
Cash Held by Foreign Subsidiaries
At October 31, 2018, we did not have any significant off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K.
We presented our contractual obligations at July 31, 2018 in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year then ended. There were no significant changes to our contractual obligations during the first three months of fiscal 2019.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
  Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 37  
Purchases of Equity Securities By The Issuer And Affiliated Purchasers
See the Exhibit Index immediately following the signature page of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
  Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 52  
  Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 53  
  Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 54
