We adopted the new accounting standards for revenue recognition effective August 1, 2018. Beginning with the first quarter of our fiscal 2019, our financial results reflect the adoption of the standards with the prior periods restated accordingly. See Note 1 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for more information.
The rapid expansion of cloud-based services is creating a more dynamic and highly competitive software industry. High availability and speed of service are reshaping customer expectations around the world. These shifts are accelerating product introductions and enhancements. Among cloud-based service companies, free business models and micro-job solutions are also becoming more prevalent within the industry. Personalization and data-driven insights, augmented by artificial intelligence and machine learning, are transforming the way that people manage their financial lives.
Our Consumer and Strategic Partner offerings have a significant and distinct seasonal pattern as sales and revenue from our income tax preparation products and services are heavily concentrated in the period from November through April. This seasonal pattern results in higher net revenues during our second and third quarters ending January 31 and April 30, respectively.
As we offer more online services, the ongoing operation and availability of our platforms and systems and those of our external service providers is becoming increasingly important. Because we help customers manage their financial lives, we face risks associated with the hosting, collection, use, and retention of personal customer information and data. We are investing significant management attention and resources in our information technology infrastructure and in our privacy and security capabilities, and we expect to continue to do so in the future.
For our consumer and professional tax offerings, we have implemented additional security measures and are continuing to work with state and federal governments to share information regarding suspicious filings. We continue to invest in security measures and to work with the broader industry and government to protect our customers against this type of fraud.
We derive revenue from the sale of packaged software products, software subscriptions, hosted services, payroll services, merchant payment processing services, financial supplies and hardware. Our contracts with customers often include promises to transfer multiple products and services to a customer. In determining how revenue should be recognized, a five-step process is used, which requires judgment and estimates within the revenue recognition process. These judgments and estimates include (1) identifying performance obligations in the contract; (2) determining whether the performance obligations are distinct; (3) determining the standalone sales price (SSP) for each distinct performance obligation; (4) determining the timing of revenue recognition for distinct performance obligations; and (5) estimating the amount of variable consideration to include in the transaction price. If we were to change any of these judgments or estimates, it could cause a material increase or decrease in the amount of revenue we report in a particular period. For additional information, see “Revenue Recognition” in Note 1 to the financial statements in Part 1, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report.
Operating income for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 increased $39 million or 20% compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2018. The increase was due to the increase in revenue described above partially offset by higher costs and expenses for advertising, marketing, and staffing. See “Operating Expenses” later in this Item 2 for more information.
Net income increased $6 million or 3% for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2018 due to the increase in operating income described above, partially offset by a higher effective tax rate in the fiscal 2019 period. As a result of the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (2017 Tax Act), in fiscal 2018 we recognized a $37 million tax benefit related to the re-measurement of our net deferred tax liability balance which resulted in a lower effective tax rate during the period. See “Non-Operating Income and Expenses - Income Taxes” later in Item 2 for more information. Diluted net income per share increased 3% to $0.72 for the second quarter of fiscal 2019, in line with the increase in net income.
Operating income for the first six months of fiscal 2019 increased $64 million or 40% compared with the same period of fiscal 2018. The increase was due to the increase in revenue described above partially offset by higher costs and expenses for advertising, marketing, and staffing. See “Operating Expenses” later in this Item 2 for more information.
Net income increased $42 million or 23% for the first six months of fiscal 2019 compared with the same period of fiscal 2018 due to the increase in operating income described above partially offset by a by a higher effective tax rate in the fiscal 2019 period. During the first six months of fiscal 2019, we recognized excess tax benefits on share-based compensation of $49 million as compared to $33 million during the first six months of fiscal 2018. The increase in excess tax benefits on share-based compensation was primarily due to our increased stock price during the period. During fiscal 2018, as a result of the 2017 Tax Act, we also recognized a $37 million tax benefit related to the re-measurement of our net deferred tax liability balance, which resulted in a lower effective tax rate. See “Non-Operating Income and Expenses - Income Taxes” later in Item 2 for more information. Diluted net income per share increased 20% to $0.84 for the first six months of fiscal 2019, in line with the increase in net income.
The information below is organized in accordance with our three reportable segments. See “Executive Overview – About Intuit” earlier in this Item 2 and Note 9 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for more information. All of our segments operate and sell to customers primarily in the United States. International total net revenue was less than 5% of consolidated total net revenue for all periods presented.
Our Desktop Ecosystem includes revenue from our QuickBooks Desktop packaged software products (Desktop Pro, Desktop for Mac, Desktop Premier, and QuickBooks Point of Sale); QuickBooks Desktop software subscriptions (QuickBooks Desktop Pro Plus, QuickBooks Desktop Premier Plus, and QuickBooks Enterprise, and ProAdvisor Program memberships for the accounting professionals who serve small businesses); desktop payroll products (QuickBooks Basic Payroll, QuickBooks Assisted Payroll and QuickBooks Enhanced Payroll); merchant payment processing services for small businesses who use desktop offerings; and financial supplies.
Segment product revenue is derived from revenue related to software license and version protection for our QuickBooks Desktop products and subscriptions, license and related updates for our desktop payroll products and financial supplies, which are all part of our Desktop Ecosystem. Segment service and other revenue is derived from our Online Ecosystem revenue; and Desktop Ecosystem revenue related to support and connected services for our QuickBooks Desktop and desktop payroll products and subscriptions and merchant payment processing services.
Online Ecosystem revenue increased 38% in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 and 40% in the first six months of fiscal 2019 compared with the same periods of fiscal 2018. QuickBooks Online Accounting revenue increased 38% in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 and 41% in the first six months of fiscal 2019 due to an increase in QuickBooks Online subscribers and average revenue per customer. At January 31, 2019 QuickBooks Online subscribers were 3.9 million, up 38% compared with the same point in time a year ago. Online Services revenue increased 39% in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 and 38% in the first six months of fiscal 2019 primarily due to customer growth in online payroll and payments and an increase in revenue from other online services.
Desktop Ecosystem revenue increased 3% for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the same period of fiscal 2018 primarily driven by customer growth in our QuickBooks Enterprise, payroll, and payments offerings. QuickBooks Desktop subscribers were up 8% as compared with the same point in time a year ago.
Desktop Ecosystem revenue decreased slightly in the first six months of fiscal 2019 as compared with the same period of fiscal 2018, primarily due to a decrease in revenue from the delivery of version protection for our QuickBooks Enterprise customers. The decrease in revenue from version protection was partially offset by an increase in license revenue for our
QuickBooks Enterprise offering and an increase in revenue from our payroll and payments offerings as a result of customer growth during the period.
Consumer segment product revenue is derived primarily from TurboTax desktop tax return preparation software and related form updates.
Consumer segment service and other revenue is derived primarily from TurboTax Online products, electronic tax filing services and connected services, and also from our Mint and Turbo offerings.
Total Consumer segment revenue increased $61 million or 12% in the first six months of fiscal 2019 compared with the same period of fiscal 2018, primarily driven by a shift in mix to our higher end product offerings. Because of the seasonality of our Consumer revenue, we do not believe that revenue for the first six months of fiscal 2019 is indicative of revenue trends for the current fiscal year. We will not have substantially complete results for the 2018 tax season until the third quarter of fiscal 2019.
Segment operating income increased 34% in the first six months of fiscal 2019 due to higher revenue as described above, which was partially offset by higher expenses for advertising and marketing. We do not believe that Consumer segment operating results for the first six months of fiscal 2019 are indicative of trends for the full fiscal year.
Strategic Partner segment product revenue is derived primarily from Lacerte, ProSeries, and ProFile desktop tax preparation software products and related form updates.
Strategic Partner segment service and other revenue is derived primarily from ProConnect Tax Online tax products, electronic tax filing service, connected services and, bank products.
Total Strategic Partner segment revenue in the first six months of fiscal 2019 is relatively consistent with the same period of fiscal 2018. Because of the seasonality of our Strategic Partner revenue, we do not believe that revenue for the first six months of fiscal 2019 is indicative of revenue trends for the current fiscal year. We will not have substantially complete results for the 2018 tax season until the third quarter of fiscal 2019.
Segment operating income increased 5% in the first six months of fiscal 2019 due to lower staffing expenses. We do not believe that Strategic Partner segment operating results for the first six months of fiscal 2019 are indicative of trends for the full fiscal year.
Cost of product revenue as a percentage of product revenue was consistent in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019 compared with the same periods of fiscal 2018. We expense costs of product revenue as they are incurred for delivered software and we do not defer any of these costs when product revenue is deferred. Cost of service and other revenue as a percentage of service and other revenue was consistent in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019 compared with the same periods of fiscal 2018.
Total operating expenses as a percentage of total net revenue decreased slightly in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the same period of fiscal 2018. Total net revenue for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 increased $163 million or 12% while total operating expenses for the quarter increased $85 million or 9%. Total operating expenses increased $64 million for higher advertising and marketing expenses and $15 million for higher staffing expenses due to higher headcount.
Total operating expenses as a percentage of total net revenue decreased in the first six months of fiscal 2019 compared to the same period of fiscal 2018. Total net revenue for the first six months of fiscal 2019 increased $269 million or 12% while total operating expenses for the period increased $117 million or 7%. Total operating expenses increased $78 million for higher advertising and marketing expenses and $35 million for higher staffing expenses due to higher headcount.
For the three and six months ended January 31, 2019, we recognized excess tax benefits on share-based compensation of $8 million and $49 million, respectively, in our provision for income taxes. For the three and six months ended January 31, 2018, we recognized excess tax benefits on share-based compensation of $8 million and $33 million, respectively, in our provision for income taxes.
At January 31, 2019, our cash, cash equivalents and investments totaled $1.3 billion, a decrease of $383 million from July 31, 2018 due to the factors discussed under “Statements of Cash Flows” below. Our primary sources of liquidity have been cash from operations, which entails the collection of accounts receivable for products and services, and borrowings under our credit facility. Our primary uses of cash have been for research and development programs, selling and marketing activities, capital projects, acquisitions of businesses, debt service costs and debt repayment, repurchases of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs, and the payment of cash dividends. As discussed in “Executive Overview – Industry Trends and Seasonality” earlier in this Item 2, our business is subject to significant seasonality. The balance of our cash, cash equivalents, and investments generally fluctuates with that seasonal pattern. We believe the seasonality of our business is likely to continue in the future.
We have historically generated significant cash from operations and we expect to continue to do so in the future. Our cash, cash equivalents, and investments totaled $1.3 billion at January 31, 2019. None of those funds were restricted and approximately 83% of those funds were located in the U.S. Our unsecured revolving credit facility is available to us for general corporate purposes, including future acquisitions and stock repurchases. At January 31, 2019, no amounts were outstanding under the revolving credit facility.
Based on past performance and current expectations, we believe that our cash and cash equivalents, investments, and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet anticipated seasonal working capital needs, capital expenditure requirements, contractual obligations, commitments, debt service requirements, and other liquidity requirements associated with our operations for at least the next 12 months. We expect to return excess cash generated by operations to our stockholders through repurchases of our common stock and payment of cash dividends, after taking into account our operating and strategic cash needs.
As described in Note 7 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report, during the first six months of fiscal 2019 we continued to repurchase shares of our common stock under repurchase programs that our Board of Directors has authorized. At January 31, 2019, we had authorization from our Board of Directors to expend up to an additional $3.0 billion for stock repurchases. We currently expect to continue repurchasing our common stock on a quarterly basis; however, future stock repurchases under the current program are at the discretion of management, and authorization of future stock repurchase programs is subject to the final determination of our Board of Directors.
On February 1, 2016 we entered into a master credit agreement with certain institutional lenders for a five-year credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of $1.5 billion. The master credit agreement includes a $500 million unsecured term loan and a $1 billion unsecured revolving credit facility that will expire on February 1, 2021. Under the master credit agreement we may, subject to certain customary conditions, on one or more occasions increase commitments under the revolving credit facility in an amount not to exceed $250 million in the aggregate and may extend the maturity date up to two times. Advances under the revolving credit facility accrue interest at rates that are equal to, at our election, either Bank of America's alternate base rate plus a margin that ranges from 0.0% to 0.5% or the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus a margin that ranges from 0.9% to 1.5%. Actual margins under either election will be based on our senior debt credit ratings. At January 31, 2019, no amounts were outstanding under the revolving credit facility. We monitor counterparty risk associated with the institutional lenders that are providing the credit facility. We currently believe that the credit facility will be available to us should we choose to borrow under it.
The master credit agreement includes customary affirmative and negative covenants, including financial covenants that require us to maintain a ratio of total debt to annual earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) of not greater than 3.25 to 1.00 as of any date and a ratio of annual EBITDA to annual interest expense of not less than 3.00 to 1.00 as of the last day of each fiscal quarter. We remained in compliance with these covenants at all times during the quarter ended January 31, 2019.
In February 2019, a subsidiary of Intuit entered into a $300 million secured revolving credit facility with a lender. The revolving credit facility is secured by cash and receivables of the subsidiary and is non-recourse to Intuit Inc. Advances under this revolving credit facility will be used to fund a portion of our loans to qualified small businesses. The revolving credit facility is available for a term of two years and accrues interest at LIBOR plus 2.39%. We are subject to a minimum of 20% being drawn against the revolving credit facility and any unused portions of the credit facility accrue interest at a rate of 0.50%. The agreement includes certain affirmative and negative covenants, including financial covenants that require the subsidiary to maintain specified financial ratios.
We presented our contractual obligations at July 31, 2018 in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year then ended. There were no significant changes to our contractual obligations during the first six months of fiscal 2019.
