Richardson Electronics, Ltd. 
Consolidated Balance Sheets 
Richardson Electronics, Ltd. 
Unaudited Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive (Loss) Income 
Richardson Electronics, Ltd. 
Richardson Electronics, Ltd. 
Unaudited Consolidated Statement of Stockholders’ Equity 
Richardson Electronics, Ltd. is a leading global provider of engineered solutions, power grid and microwave tubes and related consumables; power conversion and RF and microwave components; high value flat panel detector solutions, replacement parts, tubes and service training for diagnostic imaging equipment; and customized display solutions. We serve customers in the alternative energy, healthcare, aviation, broadcast, communications, industrial, marine, medical, military, scientific and semiconductor markets. The Company’s strategy is to provide specialized technical expertise and “engineered solutions” based on our core engineering and manufacturing capabilities. The Company provides solutions and adds value through design-in support, systems integration, prototype design and manufacturing, testing, logistics and aftermarket technical service and repair through its global infrastructure. 
Canvys provides customized display solutions serving the corporate enterprise, financial, healthcare, industrial and medical original equipment manufacturers markets. Our engineers design, manufacture, source and support a full spectrum of solutions to match the needs of our customers. We offer long term availability and proven custom display solutions that include touch screens, protective panels, custom enclosures, all-in-ones, specialized cabinet finishes and application specific software packages and certification services. We partner with both private label manufacturing companies and leading branded hardware vendors to offer the highest quality display and touch solutions and customized computing platforms. 
Healthcare manufactures, refurbishes and distributes high value replacement parts for the healthcare market including hospitals, medical centers, asset management companies, independent service organizations and multi-vendor service providers. Products include Diagnostic Imaging replacement parts for CT and MRI systems; replacement CT and MRI tubes; CT service training; MRI coils, cold heads and RF amplifiers; hydrogen thyratrons, klystrons, magnetrons; flat panel detector upgrades; and additional replacement solutions currently under development for the diagnostic imaging service market. Through a combination of newly developed products and partnerships, service offerings and training programs, we believe we can help our customers improve efficiency and deliver better clinical outcomes while lowering the cost of healthcare delivery. 
The accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”) for interim financial information and the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X. Accordingly, they do not include all the information and notes required by GAAP for complete financial statements. 
Our fiscal quarter ends on the Saturday nearest the end of the quarter-ending month. The first three months of fiscal 2019 and 2018 contained 13 and 14 weeks, respectively. 
The financial information contained in this report should be read in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 2, 2018, that we filed on August 2, 2018. 
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2014-09 (“ASU 2014-09”), Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which amends guidance for revenue recognition. ASU 2014-09 is principles based guidance that can be applied to all contracts with customers, enhancing comparability of revenue recognition practices across entities, industries, jurisdictions and capital markets. The core principle of the guidance is that entities should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods and services. The guidance details the steps entities should apply to achieve the core principle. In August 2015, the FASB issued an amendment to defer the effective date for all entities by one year. For public entities, ASU 2014-09 is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within that reporting period. Early adoption is permitted as of annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016. Companies have the option of using either a full or modified retrospective approach in applying this standard. During fiscal 2016 and 2017, the FASB issued four additional updates which further clarify the guidance provided in ASU 2014-09. 
Effective June 3, 2018, the Company adopted the standard using the modified retrospective method to all contracts. As a result, financial information for the reporting period beginning June 3, 2018 was reported under the new standard, while comparative financial information has not been adjusted and continues to be reported in accordance with the previous standard. The adoption of this standard did not impact the timing of revenue recognition for our customer sales. The adoption did not result in the recognition of a cumulative adjustment to beginning retained earnings, nor did it have a material impact on the condensed consolidated financial statements. For the Company, the most significant impact of the new standard is the addition of required disclosures within the notes to the financial statements. 
During the fourth quarter of each fiscal year, our goodwill balances are reviewed for impairment using the first day of our fourth quarter as the measurement date. If after reviewing the totality of events or circumstances, we determine that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, then we test for impairment through the application of a fair value based test. We estimate the fair value of each of our reporting units based on projected future operating results, market approach and discounted cash flows.  
Intangible assets are initially recorded at their fair market values determined on quoted market prices in active markets, if available, or recognized valuation models. Intangible assets that have finite useful lives are amortized over their useful lives either on a straight-line basis or over their projected future cash flows and are tested for impairment when events or changes in circumstances occur that indicate possible impairment. Our intangible assets represent the fair value for trade name, customer relationships, non-compete agreements and technology acquired in connection with the acquisition. 
The Company recognizes services revenue when the repair, installation or training is performed. Based on our analysis of services revenue, ASU 2014-09 has an immaterial impact on the timing, amount or characterization of services revenue recognized by the Company. The services we provide are relatively short in duration, typically completed in one to two weeks, thus, at each reporting date, the amount of unbilled work performed is insignificant. The services revenue has consistently accounted for less than 5% of the Company’s total revenues and is expected to continue at that level. 
A contract is an agreement between two or more parties that creates enforceable rights and obligations. A revenue contract exists for us once a customer purchase order is received, reviewed and accepted. Prior to accepting a customer purchase order, we review the credit worthiness of the customer. Purchase orders are deemed to meet the collectability criterion once the customer’s credit is approved. Contract assets arise when the Company transfers a good or performs a service in advance of receiving consideration from the customer and contract liabilities arise when the Company receives consideration from its customer in advance of performance. 
The Company receives advances or deposits from our customers before revenue is recognized, resulting in contract liabilities. Contract liabilities are included in accrued liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets. 
Performance obligations and satisfaction of performance obligation in the contract 
Determine the transaction price and variable consideration 
The transaction price for each product is the amount invoiced to the customer. Each product on a purchase order is a separate performance obligation with an observable standalone selling price. The transaction price is a fixed price per unit, except for the variable consideration. The Company elects to exclude sales tax from the transaction price. With the exception of sale with right of return, variable consideration has been identified only in the form of customer early payment discounts, which are immaterial to the Company’s financial statements. Although there is not a material impact on our financial statements, we will continue to account for customer discounts when they are taken by the customer and address further if they grow. 
Recognize revenue when the entity satisfies a performance obligation 
We recognize revenue when title transfers to the customer, at the shipping point for FOB shipping contracts and at the customer’s delivery location for FOB destination contracts. We believe that the transfer of title best represents when the customer obtains control of the goods. Prior to that date, we do not have right to payment, and the significant risks and rewards remain with us. The significant risks and rewards of ownership of the inventory transfer simultaneously with the transfer of title. The customer’s acceptance of the goods is based on objective measurements, not subjective. 
Our return policy is available to customers in our terms and conditions found on our website www.rell.com. The policy varies by the different businesses we engage in. The Company allows returns with prior written authorization and we allow returns within 10 days of shipment for replacement parts.  
The Company maintains a reserve for returns based on historical trends that covers all contracts and revenue streams using the expected value method because we have a large number of contracts with similar characteristics, which is considered variable consideration. The reserve for returns creates a refund liability on our balance sheet as a contra Trade Accounts Receivable as well as an asset in inventory. We value the inventory at cost due to there being minimal or no costs to the Company as we generally require the customer to pay freight and we typically do not have costs associated with activities such as relabeling or repackaging.  
The reserve is considered immaterial at each balance sheet date for further consideration. Returns for defective product are typically covered by our supplier’s warranty, thus, returns for defective product are not factored into our reserve. 
All warranties are considered assurance warranties in that the goods are warranted to work as intended for the period covered. For products the Company does not offer a warranty, these products are covered by our suppliers. We generally offer a one to three year warranty that assures that the goods will perform as intended. The length of the warranty is typical to the industry and generally follows our supplier’s warranty period. This is due to that, in most instances, the Company’s warranty is not utilized due to our supplier’s warranty still covers the necessary repairs or replacements. We also offer a thirty-day assurance warranty on parts sales that  
parts will work as intended. See Note 7, Warranties, for further information regarding the impact of warranties concerning ASU 2014-09. 
Principal versus agent guidance was considered for customized products that are provided by our suppliers versus in-house. Richardson acts as the principal as we are responsible for satisfying the performance obligation. We have primary responsibility for fulfilling the contract, we have inventory risk prior to delivery to our customer, we establish prices, our consideration is not in the form of a commission and we bear the credit risk. The Company recognizes revenue in the gross amount of consideration. 
The carrying value of goodwill was $6.3 million as of September 1, 2018 and June 2, 2018. The goodwill balance in its entirety relates to our IMES reporting unit, which is included in our Healthcare segment. 
Change from prior periods reflect impact of foreign currency translation. 
As of September 1, 2018, we had $2.3 million invested in a certificate of deposit (“CD”) which matures in less than twelve months. The fair value of this investment was equal to the face value of the CD. 
As of June 2, 2018, we had no investments.    
All warranties are considered assurance warranties in that the goods are warranted to work as intended for the period covered. For products the Company does not offer a warranty, these products are covered by our suppliers. We generally offer a one to three year warranty that assures that the goods will perform as intended. 
We estimate the cost to perform under the warranty obligation and recognize this estimated cost at the time of the related product sale. We record expense related to our warranty obligations as cost of sales in our consolidated statements of comprehensive (loss) income. Each quarter, we assess actual warranty costs incurred on a product-by-product basis and compare the warranty costs to our estimated warranty obligation. With respect to new products, estimates are based generally on knowledge of the products, the extended warranty period and warranty experience. 
Warranty reserves are established for costs that are expected to be incurred after the sale and delivery of products under warranty. Warranty reserves are included in accrued liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets. The warranty reserves are determined based on known product failures, historical experience and other available evidence. Warranty reserves were approximately $0.2 million as of September 1, 2018 and $0.1 million as of June 2, 2018. 
of our geographical distribution of income (loss) and the movement of the valuation allowance against our U.S. state and federal net deferred tax assets. 
We have authorized 17,000,000 shares of common stock, and 3,000,000 shares of Class B common stock. The Class B common stock has 10 votes per share and has transferability restrictions; however, Class B common stock may be converted into common stock on a share-for-share basis at any time. With respect to dividends and distributions, shares of common stock and Class B common stock rank equally and have the same rights, except that Class B common stock cash dividends are limited to 90% of the amount of Class A common stock cash dividends. 
undistributed earnings per share computed using the participation percentage which reflects the dividend rights of each class of stock. Basic and diluted earnings per share were computed using the two-class method as prescribed in ASC 260. The shares of Class B common stock are considered to be participating convertible securities since the shares of Class B common stock are convertible on a share-for-share basis into shares of common stock and may participate in dividends with common stock according to a predetermined formula which is 90% of the amount of Class A common stock cash dividends.   
Canvys provides customized display solutions serving the corporate enterprise, financial, healthcare, industrial and medical original equipment manufacturers markets. Our engineers design, manufacture, source and support a full spectrum of solutions to match the needs of our customers. We offer long term availability and proven custom display solutions that include touch screens, protective panels, custom enclosures, all-in-ones, specialized cabinet finishes and application specific software packages and certification services. We partner with both private label manufacturing companies and leading branded hardware vendors to offer the highest quality display and touch solutions and customized computing platforms. 
Healthcare manufactures, refurbishes and distributes high value replacement parts for the healthcare market including hospitals, medical centers, asset management companies, independent service organizations and multi-vendor service providers.  
Other includes primarily net sales not allocated to a specific geographical region, unabsorbed value-add costs and other unallocated expenses. 
On December 5, 2017, Steven H. Busch filed a Verified Stockholder Derivative Complaint against Edward J. Richardson, Paul Plante, Jacques Belin, James Benham, Kenneth Halverson and the Company in the Delaware Court of Chancery, captioned Steven H. Busch v. Edward J. Richardson, et al., C.A. No. 2017-0868-AGB. The lawsuit alleges claims for breach of fiduciary duty by the Company’s directors and challenges the decision of a special committee of the Company’s Board to refuse Mr. Busch’s demand that the Company’s Board, among other things, rescind the Company’s May 2013 repurchase of stock from Mr. Richardson  
and May 2013 and October 2014 repurchases of Company stock from the Richardson Wildlife Foundation. On September 21, 2018, the court heard oral arguments on the Company’s March 9, 2018 motion to dismiss the lawsuit. The motion remains pending at this time. The Company believes the lawsuit to be without merit and that a loss is not probable or estimable based on the information available at the time the financial statements were issued. 
ASC 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (“ASC 820”), defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. 
As of September 1, 2018, we held an investment that was required to be measured at fair value on a recurring basis. Our investment consisted of a CD where face value was equal to fair value. 
CD  
On June 15, 2015, the Company entered into a lease agreement for the IMES facility with LDL, LLC. The Executive Vice President of IMES, Lee A. McIntyre III (former owner of IMES), has an ownership interest in LDL, LLC. The lease agreement provides for monthly payments over five years with total future minimum lease payments of $0.3 million. Rental expense related to this lease amounted to less than $0.1 million for the three months ended September 1, 2018 and for the three months ended September 2, 2017. The Company shall be entitled to extend the term of the lease for a period of an additional five years by notifying the landlord in writing of its intention to do so within nine months of the expiration of the initial term. 
On December 5, 2017, Steven H. Busch filed a Verified Stockholder Derivative Complaint against Edward J. Richardson, Paul Plante, Jacques Belin, James Benham, Kenneth Halverson and the Company in the Delaware Court of Chancery, captioned Steven H. Busch v. Edward J. Richardson, et al., C.A. No. 2017-0868-AGB. The lawsuit alleges claims for breach of fiduciary duty by the Company’s directors and challenges the decision of a special committee of the Company’s Board to refuse Mr. Busch’s demand that the Company’s Board, among other things, rescind the Company’s May 2013 repurchase of stock from Mr. Richardson and May 2013 and October 2014 repurchases of Company stock from the Richardson Wildlife Foundation. On September 21, 2018, the court heard oral arguments on the Company’s March 9, 2018 motion to dismiss the lawsuit. The motion remains pending at this time. The Company believes the lawsuit to be without merit and that a loss is not probable or estimable based on the information available at the time the financial statements were issued. 
There have been no material changes to the risk factors previously disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 2, 2018, filed August 2, 2018. 
