fls.txt



item1.txt
Financial Statements.
The Company provides marketing and sales services, knowledge and supply chain management, product-solution delivery and control systems utilizing extensive internet and information technology.
The Company takes orders in several ways, including phone, fax, online and through electronic data interchange.
The results of operations presented in the accompanying interim consolidated financial statements are not necessarily representative of operations for an entire year.
The Company may be required to adjust its accounting for its returns reserve.
Based on this ongoing assessment, the Company intends to adopt the standard on a modified retrospective basis on April 2, 2018, the first day of fiscal 2019.
2016-02, Leases.
This ASU requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets related to the rights and obligations created by those leases.
In August 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No.
2016-15, Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments.
Specifically, payments for debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs, including third-party costs, premiums paid, and other fees paid to lenders that are directly related to the debt prepayment or debt extinguishment, excluding accrued interest, will now be classified as financing activities.
Previously, these payments were classified as operating expenses.
2016-09, Compensation – Stock Compensation.


item2.txt
This commentary should be read in conjunction with the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations from the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 26, 2017.
We have operations and office facilities in Hunt Valley, Maryland, Reno, Nevada and San Antonio, Texas.
The decline in our public carrier market is primarily due to timing-related order delays.
For the retail segment, revenue declined due, in part, to the timing of the iPhone launch.
increased in our base station infrastructure category by 9.8%.
Revenue decreased in our network systems; our installation, test and maintenance; and our mobile device accessories categories by 4.8%, 3.9% and 7.4%, respectively, for the third quarter of fiscal 2018, compared to the same quarter last year.
The new tax law signed in December also provided a benefit of approximately $0.3 million in this year’s third quarter.
As a result, net income increased by 27.9% and diluted earnings per share increased by 26.7% compared to the prior-year quarter.
The terms, and accordingly the factors, applicable to each relationship often differ.
The wireless communications distribution industry is competitive and fragmented and is comprised of several national distributors.
In addition, many manufacturers sell direct.
We believe, however, that our strength in service, the breadth and depth of our product offering, our information technology system, industry experience and knowledge, and our large customer base and purchasing relationships with approximately 450 manufacturers, provide us with a significant competitive advantage over new entrants to the marketplace.
This growth was concentrated within our state and local government customers as well as our government value-added resellers.


item3.txt
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.


item4.txt
Item 5.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings.


