fls.txt
In June 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued ASU No.


item1.txt
Financial Statements.
The Company provides marketing and sales services, knowledge and supply chain management, product-solution delivery and control systems utilizing extensive internet and information technology.
The Company takes orders in several ways, including phone, fax, online and through electronic data interchange.
In management’s opinion, the accompanying interim Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company include all adjustments, consisting only of normal, recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of the Company’s financial position for the interim periods presented.
These statements are presented in accordance with the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) and have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”).
In June 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued ASU No.
2016-13, Financial Instruments – Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments which amends the impairment model by requiring entities to use a forward-looking approach based on expected losses rather than incurred losses to estimate credit losses on certain types of financial instruments, including trade receivables.
This ASU is effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2019.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements and will adopt the standard on the first day of the Company’s 2021 fiscal year.
This ASU requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets related to the rights and obligations created by those leases.
Therefore, the Company recorded a right-of-use asset of $4,398,300 and lease liabilities of $4,420,800 for operating leases as of June 30, 2019.
Effective April 1, 2019, the Company adopted the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-15, Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments.


item2.txt
TESSCO architects and delivers innovative product and value chain solutions to support wireless broadband systems.
We have operations and office facilities in Hunt Valley, Maryland, Reno, Nevada and San Antonio, Texas.
The decline in our commercial segment revenue was driven by a decrease in our public carrier market due to the project-oriented nature of this business.
Several large customers either adjusted their forecasts or pushed out their product requirements from the first fiscal quarter into the remainder of the year.
The decrease is related to decreased compensation, benefits, and rewards expense.
These decreases were partially offset by an increase in occupancy expense and distribution support expense.
The terms, and accordingly the factors, applicable to each relationship often differ.
The wireless communications distribution industry is competitive and fragmented and is comprised of several national distributors.
In addition, many manufacturers sell direct.
Barriers to entry for distributors are relatively low, particularly in the mobile devices and accessories market, and the risk of new competitors entering the marketplace is high.
Consolidation of larger wireless carriers has and will most likely continue to impact our current and potential customer base.
Total Revenues.


item3.txt



item4.txt
The Company’s management, with the participation of the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO), has evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) or 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act)) as of the end of the period covered by this quarterly report.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings.


