fls.txt
In June 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No.


item1.txt
Financial Statements.
The Company provides marketing and sales services, knowledge and supply chain management, product-solution delivery and control systems utilizing extensive internet and information technology.
The Company takes orders in several ways, including phone, fax, online and through electronic data interchange.
In management’s opinion, the accompanying interim Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company include all adjustments, consisting only of normal, recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of the Company’s financial position for the interim periods presented.
These statements are presented in accordance with the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) and have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”).
In June 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No.
2016-13, Financial Instruments – Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments which amends the impairment model by requiring entities to use a forward-looking approach based on expected losses rather than incurred losses to estimate credit losses on certain types of financial instruments, including trade receivables.
This ASU is effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2019.
The Company adopted this standard on the first day of the 2020 fiscal year, using a modified retrospective approach.
2016-15, Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments.
Specifically, payments for debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs, including third-party costs, premiums paid, and other fees paid to lenders that are directly related to the debt prepayment or debt extinguishment, excluding accrued interest, are now classified as financing activities.
Previously, these payments were classified as operating expenses.
metrics are met to a sufficient extent, the shares earned at the end of fiscal 2020 on the basis of that performance will vest in four equal installments beginning on or about May 15, 2020 and continuing on the same date in calendar 2021, 2022 and 2023, provided that the respective employee remains employed by the Company on each such date.


item2.txt
TESSCO architects and delivers innovative product and value chain solutions to support wireless broadband systems.
The terms, and accordingly the factors, applicable to each relationship often differ.
also be affected by wireless carrier consolidation or the overall global economic environment.
The wireless communications distribution industry is competitive and fragmented and is comprised of several national distributors.
In addition, many manufacturers sell direct.
Consolidation of larger wireless carriers has and will most likely continue to impact our current and potential customer base.
We believe, however, that our strength in service, the breadth and depth of our product offering, our information technology system, industry experience and knowledge, and our large customer base and purchasing relationships with approximately 400 manufacturers, provide us with a significant competitive advantage over new entrants to the marketplace.
Gross profit margin in our value-added resellers and integrators market decreased from 24.6% to 23.8%.
Agreements or arrangements on which these relationships are based typically do not include any obligation in respect of any specific product purchase or sale, are of limited duration, and are terminable by either party upon relatively short notice.
Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues decreased from 18.6% for the second quarter of fiscal 2019, to 18.2% for the second quarter of fiscal 2020.
We had bad debt recovery, net of expense, of $107,900 and bad debt expense of $665,100 for the three months ended September 29, 2019 and September 30, 2018, respectively.
The effective tax rate increased from 28.8% for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 to 90.8% for the second quarter of fiscal 2020.
The increase in the effective tax rate is the result of permanent and other tax adjustments remaining consistent year over year while pre-tax income decreased year over year.


item3.txt



item4.txt
The Company’s management, with the participation of the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO), has evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) or 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act)) as of the end of the period covered by this quarterly report.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings.


