fls.txt
2016-13, Financial Instruments – Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments which amends the impairment model by requiring entities to use a forward-looking approach based on expected losses rather than incurred losses to estimate credit losses on certain types of financial instruments, including trade receivables.


item1.txt
Financial Statements.
The Company takes orders in several ways, including phone, fax, online and through electronic data interchange.
In management’s opinion, the accompanying interim Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company include all adjustments, consisting only of normal, recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of the Company’s financial position for the interim periods presented.
These statements are presented in accordance with the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).
The ASU also requires additional qualitative and quantitative disclosures related to the nature, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
The Company has identified the full population of leases.
Although the Company does expect to record right-of-use assets and liabilities on its consolidated balance sheet, it does not expect the adoption of the standard to have a material impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The standard will be adopted on the first day of the Company’s 2020 fiscal year.
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-13, Financial Instruments – Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments which amends the impairment model by requiring entities to use a forward-looking approach based on expected losses rather than incurred losses to estimate credit losses on certain types of financial instruments, including trade receivables.
This may result in the earlier recognition of allowances for losses.
This ASU is effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2019.
2016-15, Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments.


item2.txt
TESSCO architects and delivers innovative product and value chain solutions to support wireless broadband systems.
We have operations and office facilities in Hunt Valley, Maryland, Reno, Nevada and San Antonio, Texas.
Among our product categories, revenue increased in our base station infrastructure category by 18.7%.
The increase in gross profit was primarily the result of the increase in revenue discussed above.
Gross margin for the third quarter fiscal year 2019 and fiscal year 2018 was 20.4% and 20.2%, respectively.
The terms, and accordingly the factors, applicable to each relationship often differ.
The wireless communications distribution industry is competitive and fragmented and is comprised of several national distributors.
In addition, many manufacturers sell direct.
Consolidation of larger wireless carriers has and will most likely continue to impact our current and potential customer base.
We believe, however, that our strength in service, the breadth and depth of our product offering, our information technology system, industry experience and knowledge, and our large customer base and purchasing relationships with approximately 440 manufacturers, provide us with a significant competitive advantage over new entrants to the marketplace.
Revenues in our public carrier market increased by 47.9%.
This growth was primarily driven by our ability to expand market share with Tier 1 Carrier installers and contractors.
Overall gross profit margin increased slightly from 20.2% in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 to 20.4% in the third quarter of fiscal 2019.


item3.txt



item4.txt
The Company’s management, with the participation of the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO), has evaluated the effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) or 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act)) as of the end of the period covered by this quarterly report.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings.


