fls.txt



item1.txt
Financial Statements.
The Company provides marketing and sales services, knowledge and supply chain management, product-solution delivery and control systems utilizing extensive internet and information technology.
The Company takes orders in several ways, including phone, fax, online and through electronic data interchange.
The results of operations presented in the accompanying interim Consolidated Financial Statements are not necessarily representative of operations for an entire year.
2016-02, Leases.
The ASU also requires additional qualitative and quantitative disclosures related to the nature, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements and will adopt the standard on the first day of the Company’s 2020 fiscal year.
In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-15, Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments.
Specifically, payments for debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs, including third-party costs, premiums paid, and other fees paid to lenders that are directly related to the debt prepayment or debt extinguishment, excluding accrued interest, will now be classified as financing activities.
Previously, these payments were classified as operating expenses.
The Company has changed the presentation of its returns reserve.
This liability represents the obligation to return customer consideration.
The value of the expected goods returned by customers is now recognized as a return asset within the inventory line item of the balance sheet.


item2.txt
TESSCO architects and delivers innovative product and value chain solutions to support wireless broadband systems.
We have operations and office facilities in Hunt Valley, Maryland, Reno, Nevada and San Antonio, Texas.
Our first quarter fiscal 2019 revenue increased by 7.8% compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
The terms, and accordingly the factors, applicable to each relationship often differ.
The wireless communications distribution industry is competitive and fragmented and is comprised of several national distributors.
In addition, many manufacturers sell direct.
We believe, however, that our strength in service, the breadth and depth of our product offering, our information technology system, industry experience and knowledge, and our large customer base and purchasing relationships with approximately 440 manufacturers, provide us with a significant competitive advantage over new entrants to the marketplace.
Total Revenues.
Within our commercial segment, revenues in our public carrier market increased by 51.7%.
We also experienced revenue growth within our government and private system operators markets of 9.3% and 2.8%, respectively, over the prior year quarter.
The increase in revenue from our government market was primarily related to increased spending by government contractors related to state and local government fiscal year ends.


item3.txt
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.


item4.txt
Controls and Procedures.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings.


