fls.txt
2016-13, Financial Instruments – Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments which amends the impairment model by requiring entities to use a forward-looking approach based on expected losses rather than incurred losses to estimate credit losses on certain types of financial instruments, including trade receivables.


item1.txt
Financial Statements.
The Company provides marketing and sales services, knowledge and supply chain management, product-solution delivery and control systems utilizing extensive internet and information technology.
The Company takes orders in several ways, including phone, fax, online and through electronic data interchange.
The results of operations presented in the accompanying interim Consolidated Financial Statements are not necessarily representative of operations for an entire year.
2016-02, Leases.
The ASU also requires additional qualitative and quantitative disclosures related to the nature, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years.
The Company has identified the full population of leases and does not expect the adoption of the standard to have a material impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The standard will be adopted on the first day of the Company’s 2020 fiscal year.
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
This may result in the earlier recognition of allowances for losses.
2016-15, Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments.
cash flow statement.


item2.txt
TESSCO architects and delivers innovative product and value chain solutions to support wireless broadband systems.
For the retail segment, year over year, revenue increased due, in part, to successful execution of the iPhone XS and the XS Max launches as well as growth in Ventev mobile device accessory sales.
On the product side, revenue increased in our base station infrastructure, installation, test and maintenance and mobile device accessories categories by 27.0%, 15.8%, and 5.9% respectively.
The increase in gross profit was primarily the result of the increase in revenue discussed above.
The terms, and accordingly the factors, applicable to each relationship often differ.
The wireless communications distribution industry is competitive and fragmented and is comprised of several national distributors.
In addition, many manufacturers sell direct.
Consolidation of larger wireless carriers has and will most likely continue to impact our current and potential customer base.
We believe, however, that our strength in service, the breadth and depth of our product offering, our information technology system, industry experience and knowledge, and our large customer base and purchasing relationships with approximately 440 manufacturers, provide us with a significant competitive advantage over new entrants to the marketplace.
This growth was primarily driven by our ability to expand market share with Tier 1 Carrier installers and contractors.
This new structure is expected to enhance sales opportunities across the consolidated group as well as provide better coverage to the customers and better align territories with supplier partners.
This decline was caused primarily due to higher freight expenses and change in customer mix.
We continue to experience margin compression within the public carrier market because of increases in sales with larger customers.


item3.txt



item4.txt
The Company’s management, with the participation of the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO), has evaluated the effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) or 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act)) as of the end of the period covered by this quarterly report.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings.


