ITEM 1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS





First Quarter 2018 Form 10-Q3





4First Quarter 2018 Form 10-Q









First Quarter 2018 Form 10-Q5





6First Quarter 2018 Form 10-Q

Blackbaud, Inc.



Notes to consolidated financial statements







We are the world’s leading cloud software company powering social good. Serving the entire social good community—nonprofits, foundations, corporations, education institutions, healthcare institutions and individual change agents—we connect and empower organizations to increase their impact through software, services, expertise and data intelligence. Our portfolio is tailored to the unique needs of vertical markets, with solutions for fundraising and CRM, marketing, advocacy, peer-to-peer fundraising, corporate social responsibility, school management, ticketing, grantmaking, financial management, payment processing, and analytics. Serving the industry for more than three decades, we are headquartered in Charleston, South Carolina and have operations in the United States, Australia, Canada and the United Kingdom. As of March 31, 2018, we had over 40,000 customers.



2. Basis of Presentation



Unaudited interim consolidated financial statements



The accompanying interim consolidated financial statements have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") for interim financial reporting. These consolidated statements are unaudited and, in the opinion of management, include all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring adjustments and accruals) necessary to state fairly the consolidated balance sheets, consolidated statements of comprehensive income, consolidated statements of cash flows and consolidated statements of stockholders’ equity, for the periods presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP"). The consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2017, has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements at that date. Operating results and cash flows for the three months ended March 31, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2018, or any other future period. Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in annual financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP have been omitted in accordance with the rules and regulations for interim reporting of the SEC. These interim consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, and other forms filed with the SEC from time to time.



Reclassifications



Our revenue from "subscriptions" and "maintenance" and a portion of our "services and other" revenue have been combined within "recurring" revenue beginning in 2018. In order to provide comparability between periods presented, those amounts of revenue have been combined within "recurring" revenue in the previously reported consolidated statements of comprehensive income to conform to presentation of the current period. Similarly, "cost of subscriptions" and "cost of maintenance" and a portion of "cost of services and other" have been combined within "cost of recurring" in the previously reported consolidated statements of comprehensive income to conform to presentation of the current period. "Services and other" revenue has been renamed as "one-time services and other" and consists of revenue that did not meet the description of "recurring" revenue in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income.



Basis of consolidation



The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Blackbaud, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.



Reportable segment



We report our operating results and financial information in one operating and reportable segment. Our chief operating decision maker uses consolidated financial information to make operating decisions, assess financial performance and allocate resources. Our chief operating decision maker is our chief executive officer ("CEO").



First Quarter 2018 Form 10-Q7

Blackbaud, Inc.



Notes to consolidated financial statements (continued)





Recently adopted accounting pronouncements



In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) ("ASU 2014-09"), which outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers. ASU 2014-09 replaces most previous revenue recognition guidance in GAAP and requires the recognition of revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. The standard also provides guidance on the recognition of costs related to obtaining and fulfilling customer contracts. 



We adopted ASU 2014-09 as of January 1, 2018 utilizing the full retrospective method of transition, which requires that the standard be applied to all periods presented. The impact of adopting ASU 2014-09 on our total revenues for 2017 and 2016 was not material. The primary impacts of adopting ASU 2014-09 relate to the deferral of incremental commission and other costs of obtaining contracts with customers and the increase to the amortization period for those costs. Previously, we deferred only direct and incremental commission costs to obtain a contract and amortized those costs over the contract term, generally three years, as the revenue was recognized. Under the new standard, we defer all incremental commission and related fringe benefit costs to obtain a contract and amortize these costs in a manner that aligns with the expected period of benefit. We utilized the 'portfolio approach' practical expedient in ASC 606-10-10-4, which allows entities to apply the guidance to a portfolio of contracts with similar characteristics because the effects on the financial statements of this approach would not differ materially from applying the guidance to individual contracts. Using the 'portfolio approach' and taking into consideration our customer contracts, our technology and other factors, we determined the expected period of benefit to be five years. We do not generally pay commissions for contract renewals.



Select adjusted unaudited financial statement information, which reflects our adoption of ASU 2014-09 is set forth below.







8First Quarter 2018 Form 10-Q

Blackbaud, Inc.



Notes to consolidated financial statements (continued)





Our adoption of ASU 2014-09 had no impact on our net cash provided by or used in operating, investing or financing activities for any of the periods reported. 



Except for the accounting policies for revenue recognition and deferred commissions (herein referred to as "costs of obtaining contracts") that were updated as a result of adopting ASU 2014-09, there have been no changes to our significant accounting policies described in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed with the SEC on February 20, 2018, that have had a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.





Summary of significant accounting policies



Revenue Recognition







•Identification of the contract, or contracts, with a customer;



•Identification of the performance obligations in the contract;



•Determination of the transaction price;



•Allocation of the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract; and



•Recognition of revenue when, or as, we satisfy a performance obligation.



Recurring



Recurring revenue represents stand-ready performance obligations in which we are making our solutions or services available to our customers continuously over time or the value of the contract renews. Therefore, recurring revenue is generally recognized over time on a ratable basis over the contract term, beginning on the date that the solution or service is made available to the customer. Our recurring revenue contracts are generally for a term of three years at contract inception with one to three-year renewals thereafter, billed annually in advance and non-cancelable.



Recurring revenue is comprised of fees for the use of our subscription-based software solutions, which includes providing access to cloud-based solutions, hosting services, online training programs, subscription-based analytic services, such as donor acquisitions and data enrichment, and payment services. Recurring revenue also includes fees from maintenance services for our on-premises solutions, services included in our renewable subscription contracts, subscription-based contracts for professional services and variable transaction revenue associated with the use of our solutions.



Our payment services are offered with the assistance of third-party vendors. In general, when we are the principal in a transaction based on the factors identified in ASC 606-10-55-36 through 55-40, we record the revenue and related costs on a gross basis. Otherwise, we net the cost of revenue associated with the service against the gross revenue (amount billed to the customer) and record the net amount as revenue. For payment and transaction services, we have the right to invoice the customer in an amount that directly corresponds with the value to the customer of our performance to date. Therefore, we recognize revenue for these services over time based on the amount billable to the customer in accordance with the 'as invoiced' practical expedient in ASC 606-10-55-18.



First Quarter 2018 Form 10-Q9

Blackbaud, Inc.



Notes to consolidated financial statements (continued)





One-time services and other



One-time services and other revenue primarily consists of fees for one-time consulting, analytic and onsite training services. 



We generally bill consulting services based on hourly rates plus reimbursable travel-related expenses. Fixed price consulting engagements are generally billed as milestones towards completion are reached. Revenue for all consulting services is recognized over time as the services are performed.



We generally recognize analytic services revenue from donor prospect research engagements, the sale of lists of potential donors, data enrichment engagements and benchmarking studies at a point in time (upon delivery).



We sell training at a fixed rate for each specific class at a per attendee price or at a packaged price for several attendees, and recognize the related revenue upon the customer attending and completing training. 



Contracts with multiple performance obligations



Some of our contracts with customers contain multiple performance obligations. For these contracts, we account for individual performance obligations separately if they are distinct. The transaction price is allocated to the separate performance obligations on a relative standalone selling price basis. Standalone selling prices of our solutions and services are typically estimated based on observable transactions when the solutions or services are sold on a standalone basis.



Costs of obtaining contracts, contract assets and deferred revenue



We pay sales commissions at the time contracts with customers are signed or shortly thereafter, depending on the size and duration of the sales contract. Sales commissions and related fringe benefits earned by our sales force are considered incremental and recoverable costs of obtaining a contract with a customer. These costs are deferred and then amortized in a manner that aligns with the expected period of benefit, which we have determined to be five years. We determined the period of benefit by taking into consideration our customer contracts, including renewals, retention, our technology and other factors. We do not generally pay commissions for contract renewals. The related amortization expense is included in sales, marketing and customer success expense in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income.



Amounts recognized as revenue in excess of amounts billed are recorded as contract assets within prepaid expenses and other current assets on our consolidated balance sheets. To the extent that our customers are billed for our solutions and services in advance of us satisfying the related performance obligations, we record such amounts in deferred revenue.



Recently issued accounting pronouncements



In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842) ("ASU 2016-02"). ASU 2016-02 will require lessees to record most leases on their balance sheets but recognize expenses in the income statement in a manner similar to current guidance. The updated guidance also eliminates certain real estate-specific provisions and changes the guidance on sale-leaseback transactions, initial direct costs and lease executory costs for all entities. For lessors, the standard modifies the classification criteria and the accounting for sales-type and direct financing leases. All entities will classify leases to determine how to recognize lease-related revenue and expense. Classification will continue to affect amounts that lessors record on the balance sheet. ASU 2016-02 is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those years. Early adoption is permitted. Upon adoption, entities will be required to use a modified retrospective approach for leases that exist or are entered into after the beginning of the earliest comparative period in the financial statements. The modified retrospective approach includes a number of optional practical expedients that entities may elect to apply. We expect ASU 2016-02 will impact our consolidated financial statements and are currently evaluating the extent of the impact that implementation of this standard will have on adoption.



10First Quarter 2018 Form 10-Q

Blackbaud, Inc.



Notes to consolidated financial statements (continued)





3. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets







4. Earnings Per Share



We compute basic earnings per share by dividing net income available to common stockholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share is computed by dividing net income available to common stockholders by the weighted average number of common shares and dilutive potential common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share reflect the assumed exercise, settlement and vesting of all dilutive securities using the “treasury stock method” except when the effect is anti-dilutive. Potentially dilutive securities consist of shares issuable upon the exercise of stock options, settlement of stock appreciation rights and vesting of restricted stock awards and units.







First Quarter 2018 Form 10-Q11

Blackbaud, Inc.



Notes to consolidated financial statements (continued)





5. Fair Value Measurements





•Level 1 - Quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in active markets; 



•Level 2 - Quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets in markets that are not active, and model-derived valuations in which all significant inputs and significant value drivers are observable in active markets; and



•Level 3 - Valuations derived from valuation techniques in which one or more significant inputs are unobservable.



Recurring fair value measurements







Our derivative instruments within the scope of ASC 815, Derivatives and Hedging, are required to be recorded at fair value. Our derivative instruments that are recorded at fair value include interest rate swaps.



The fair value of our interest rate swaps was based on model-driven valuations using LIBOR rates, which are observable at commonly quoted intervals. Accordingly, our interest rate swaps are classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.



We believe the carrying amounts of our cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash due to customers, accounts receivable, trade accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities and due to customers approximate their fair values at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, due to the immediate or short-term maturity of these instruments.



We believe the carrying amount of our debt approximates its fair value at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, as the debt bears interest rates that approximate market value. As LIBOR rates are observable at commonly quoted intervals, our debt is classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.



We did not transfer any assets or liabilities among the levels within the fair value hierarchy during the three months ended March 31, 2018. Additionally, we did not hold any Level 3 assets or liabilities during the three months ended March 31, 2018.



12First Quarter 2018 Form 10-Q

Blackbaud, Inc.



Notes to consolidated financial statements (continued)





Non-recurring fair value measurements



Assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis include intangible assets and goodwill, which are recognized at fair value during the period in which an acquisition is completed, from updated estimates and assumptions during the measurement period, or when they are considered to be impaired. These non-recurring fair value measurements, primarily for intangible assets acquired, are based on Level 3 unobservable inputs. In the event of an impairment, we determine the fair value of the goodwill and intangible assets using a discounted cash flow approach, which contains significant unobservable inputs and, therefore, is considered a Level 3 fair value measurement. The unobservable inputs in the analysis generally include future cash flow projections and a discount rate.



There were no non-recurring fair value adjustments to intangible assets and goodwill during the three months ended March 31, 2018, except for an insignificant business combination accounting adjustment to the initial fair value estimates of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date from updated information obtained during the measurement period. See Note 3 to these consolidated financial statements for additional details. The measurement period of a business combination may be up to one year from the acquisition date. We record any measurement period adjustments to the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, with the corresponding offset to goodwill.



6. Consolidated Financial Statement Details



Prepaid expenses and other assets







First Quarter 2018 Form 10-Q13

Blackbaud, Inc.



Notes to consolidated financial statements (continued)





Accrued expenses and other liabilities







The following table summarizes our debt balances and the related weighted average effective interest rates, which includes the effect of interest rate swap agreements.









14First Quarter 2018 Form 10-Q

Blackbaud, Inc.



Notes to consolidated financial statements (continued)







Cash flow hedges



We generally use derivative instruments to manage our variable interest rate risk. In July 2017, we entered into an interest rate swap agreement (the "July 2017 Swap Agreement"), which effectively converts portions of our variable rate debt under our credit facility to a fixed rate for the term of the July 2017 Swap Agreement. The notional value of the July 2017 Swap Agreement was $150.0 million with an effective date beginning in July 2017 through July 2021. We designated the July 2017 Swap Agreement as a cash flow hedge at the inception of the contract.



In February 2018, we entered into an additional interest rate swap agreement (the "February 2018 Swap Agreement"), which effectively converts portions of our variable rate debt under our credit facility to a fixed rate for the term of the February 2018 Swap Agreement. The notional value of the February 2018 Swap Agreement was $50.0 million with an effective date beginning in February 2018 through June 2021. We designated the February 2018 Swap Agreement as a cash flow hedge at the inception of the contract.











Our policy requires that derivatives used for hedging purposes be designated and effective as a hedge of the identified risk exposure at the inception of the contract. Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) includes unrealized gains or losses from the change in fair value measurement of our derivative instruments each reporting period and the related income tax expense or benefit. Changes in the fair value measurements of the derivative instruments and the related income tax expense or benefit are reflected as adjustments to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) until the actual hedged expense is incurred or until the hedge is terminated at which point the unrealized gain (loss) is reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) to current earnings. The estimated accumulated other comprehensive income as of March 31, 2018 that is expected to be reclassified into earnings within the next twelve months is insignificant. There were no ineffective portions of our interest rate swap derivatives during the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017. See Note 12 to these consolidated financial statements for a summary of the changes in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) by component.



First Quarter 2018 Form 10-Q15

Blackbaud, Inc.



Notes to consolidated financial statements (continued)





9. Commitments and Contingencies 



Leases



Total rent expense was $4.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017.



Other commitments



The term loans under the 2017 Credit Facility require periodic principal payments. The balance of the term loans and any amounts drawn on the revolving credit loans are due upon maturity of the 2017 Credit Facility in June 2022.



We have contractual obligations for third-party technology used in our solutions and for other services we purchase as part of our normal operations. In certain cases, these arrangements require a minimum annual purchase commitment by us. As of March 31, 2018, the remaining aggregate minimum purchase commitment under these arrangements was approximately $68.7 million through 2023.



Solution and service indemnifications



In the ordinary course of business, we provide certain indemnifications of varying scope to customers against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of our solutions or services. If we determine that it is probable that a loss has been incurred related to solution or service indemnifications, any such loss that could be reasonably estimated would be recognized. We have not identified any losses and, accordingly, we have not recorded a liability related to these indemnifications.



Legal proceedings



We are subject to legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business. We make a provision for a loss contingency when it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. These provisions are reviewed at least quarterly and adjusted to reflect the impacts of negotiations, settlements, rulings, advice of legal counsel and other information and events pertaining to a particular case. Unless otherwise specifically disclosed in this note, we have determined as of March 31, 2018, that no provision for liability nor disclosure is required related to any claim against us because (a) there is not a reasonable possibility that a loss exceeding amounts already recognized (if any) may be incurred with respect to such claim; (b) a reasonably possible loss or range of loss cannot be estimated; or (c) such estimate is immaterial.



All legal costs associated with litigation are expensed as incurred. Litigation is inherently unpredictable. However, we believe that we have valid defenses with respect to the legal matters pending against us. It is possible, nevertheless, that our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be negatively affected in any particular period by an unfavorable resolution of one or more of such proceedings, claims or investigations.



16First Quarter 2018 Form 10-Q

Blackbaud, Inc.



Notes to consolidated financial statements (continued)











The decrease in our effective income tax rate during the three months ended March 31, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017, was primarily due to the impact of the discrete benefit to income tax expense relating to stock-based compensation items, calculated prior to the impact of the U.S. federal corporate tax rate change as a result of the Tax Act. This favorable impact was attributable to an increase in the market price for shares of our common stock, as reported by the Nasdaq Stock Market LLC ("Nasdaq"), as well as an increase in the number of stock awards that vested and were exercised. Most of our equity awards are granted during our first quarter and vest in subsequent years during the same quarter. This discrete benefit to income tax expense relating to stock-based compensation during the three months ended March 31, 2018 was reduced as a result of the decrease in the U.S. corporate tax rate.



The decrease in our effective income tax rate during the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the same period in 2017, was also attributable to the impact of the lower U.S. federal corporate tax rate on pre-tax income.



In December 2017, the Tax Act was signed into law making significant changes to the Internal Revenue Code. Changes include, but are not limited to, a corporate tax rate decrease from 35% to 21% effective for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, the transition of U.S. international taxation from a worldwide tax system to a territorial system, and a one-time transition tax on the mandatory deemed repatriation of cumulative foreign earnings as of December 31, 2017. 



On December 22, 2017, Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 (“SAB 118”) was issued to address the application of U.S. GAAP in situations when a registrant does not have the necessary information available, prepared, or analyzed (including computations) in reasonable detail to complete the accounting for certain income tax effects of the Tax Act. For the three months ended March 31, 2018, the Company obtained additional information affecting the provisional amount calculated for the transition tax as of December 31, 2017, however, the Company determined that the transition tax is still insignificant.



The Tax Act eliminates the exceptions for performance-based compensation and CFO compensation from the 162(m) calculation. A transition rule allows for the grandfathering of performance-based compensation pursuant to a written binding contract in effect as of November 2, 2017. While there is negative discretion inherent in our performance-based compensation plans, it is our position that the intent is for historic contracts to be written and binding. As a result, we have not adjusted the ending estimated deferred tax assets for the performance-based stock compensation or the bonus accrual in our 2018 income tax provision.



Our estimates of the impact of the Tax Act may change due to a number of additional considerations including, but not limited to, the issuance of additional regulations or guidance and our ongoing analysis of the new law. Any subsequent adjustment to these amounts will be recorded to tax expense in 2018 when the analysis is complete.



First Quarter 2018 Form 10-Q17

Blackbaud, Inc.



Notes to consolidated financial statements (continued)













Dividends



Our Board of Directors has adopted a dividend policy, which provides for the distribution to stockholders of a portion of cash generated by us that is in excess of operational needs and capital expenditures. The 2017 Credit Facility limits the amount of dividends payable and certain state laws restrict the amount of dividends distributed.



In February 2018, our Board of Directors approved an annual dividend rate of $0.48 per share to be made in quarterly payments. Dividend payments are not guaranteed and our Board of Directors may decide, in its absolute discretion, at any time and for any reason, not to declare and pay further dividends. The following table provides information with respect to quarterly dividends of $0.12 per share paid on common stock during the three months ended March 31, 2018.





On April 30, 2018, our Board of Directors declared a second quarter dividend of $0.12 per share payable on June 15, 2018 to stockholders of record on May 25, 2018.



18First Quarter 2018 Form 10-Q

Blackbaud, Inc.



Notes to consolidated financial statements (continued)





Changes in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) by component









The prior period financial information presented below has been adjusted to reflect our adoption of ASU 2014-09.



Transaction price allocated to the remaining performance obligations



As of March 31, 2018, approximately $619 million of revenue is expected to be recognized from remaining performance obligations. We expect to recognize revenue on approximately 60% of these remaining performance obligations over the next 12 months, with the remainder recognized thereafter.



We applied the practical expedient in ASC 606-10-50-14 and have excluded the value of unsatisfied performance obligations for (i) contracts with an original expected length of one year or less (one-time services); and (ii) contracts for which we recognize revenue at the amount to which we have the right to invoice for services performed (payment services and usage).



We also applied the practical expedient in ASC 606-10-65-1-(f)(3), whereby the transaction price allocated to the remaining performance obligations, or an explanation of when we expect to recognize that amount as revenue for all reporting periods presented before the date of the initial application, is not disclosed.



First Quarter 2018 Form 10-Q19

Blackbaud, Inc.



Notes to consolidated financial statements (continued)





Contract balances







Contract assets remained relatively unchanged during the first quarter of 2018. The decrease in deferred revenue during the first quarter of 2018 was primarily due to less billings for recurring revenue contracts. Historically, due to the timing of customer budget cycles, we have an increase in customer contract renewals in our second and fourth quarters as compared to our first and third quarters. The amount of revenue recognized during the first quarter of 2018 that was included in the deferred revenue balance at the beginning of the period was approximately $123 million. The amount of revenue recognized during the first quarter of 2018 from performance obligations satisfied in prior periods was insignificant.



Disaggregation of revenue









•The GMG focuses on sales to all K-12 private schools, faith-based and arts and cultural organizations, as well as emerging and mid-sized prospects in North America;





•The IMG focuses on sales to all prospects and customers outside of North America.







20First Quarter 2018 Form 10-Q

Blackbaud, Inc.



Notes to consolidated financial statements (continued)







During 2017, in an effort to further our organizational objectives including, improved operating efficiency, customer outcomes and employee satisfaction, we initiated a multi-year plan to consolidate and relocate some of our existing offices to highly modern and more collaborative workspaces with short-term financial commitments. These workspaces are also more centrally located for our employees and closer to our customers and prospects. Restructuring costs expected to be incurred consist primarily of costs to terminate existing lease agreements, contractual lease payments, net of estimated sublease income, upon vacating space as part of the plan, as well as insignificant costs to relocate affected employees and write-off leasehold improvement assets that we will no longer use. We currently expect to incur before-tax restructuring costs associated with these activities of between $6.0 million and $8.0 million, with a significant portion of the remaining costs expected to be incurred through 2019. We also expect to incur employee severance costs related to the plan; however, these costs cannot be reasonably estimated at this time.













Reeher acquisition



On April 30, 2018, we acquired all of the outstanding equity securities, including all voting equity interests, of Reeher LLC, a Minnesota limited liability company (“Reeher”), pursuant to a securities purchase agreement. The acquisition expands our fundraising performance management capabilities and is intended to drive more effective fundraising and greater social good outcomes for our customers. We acquired the equity securities for an aggregate purchase price of $43.0 million, subject to certain adjustments set forth in the securities purchase agreement. The purchase price and related expenses were funded primarily through borrowings under the 2017 Credit Facility. As a result of the acquisition, Reeher has become a wholly-owned subsidiary of ours. We will include the operating results of Reeher, as well as any goodwill arising from the acquisition, in our consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition. During the three months ended March 31, 2018, we incurred insignificant acquisition-related expenses associated with the acquisition, which were recorded in general and administrative expense. Due to the timing of the transaction, the initial accounting for this acquisition, including the measurement of assets acquired, liabilities assumed and goodwill, is not complete and is pending detailed analyses of the facts and circumstances that existed as of the April 30, 2018 acquisition date.



First Quarter 2018 Form 10-Q21

Blackbaud, Inc.



ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS



Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described in Part I, Item IA, "Risk factors" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of our stock. There have been no material changes to our risk factors since our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.



