ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS



The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The following discussion and analysis presents financial information denominated in millions of dollars which can lead to differences from rounding when compared to similar information contained in the consolidated financial statements and related notes which are primarily denominated in thousands of dollars.



Executive Summary



We are the world’s leading cloud software company powering social good. Serving the entire social good community—nonprofits, foundations, companies, education institutions, healthcare organizations and individual change agents—we connect and empower organizations to increase their impact through cloud software, services, expertise, and data intelligence. Our portfolio is tailored to the unique needs of vertical markets, with solutions for fundraising and CRM, marketing, advocacy, peer-to-peer fundraising, corporate social responsibility, school management, ticketing, grantmaking, financial management, payment processing and analytics. Serving the industry for more than three decades, we are headquartered in Charleston, South Carolina and have operations in the United States, Australia, Canada, Costa Rica and the United Kingdom. As of September 30, 2018, we had over 40,000 customers.







Four-Point Growth Strategy



1.Deliver Integrated and Open Solutions in the Cloud



We continue to transition our business to predominantly serve customers through a subscription-based cloud delivery model, enabling lower cost of entry, greater scalability and lower total cost of ownership to our customers. There is a concerted effort underway to optimize our portfolio of solutions and integrate powerful capabilities — such as built in data, analytics, artificial intelligence, payment processing and tailored user-specific experiences — to bring even greater value and performance to our customers.



We recently achieved several significant milestones on this strategy, first by announcing our new comprehensive Cloud Solution for Faith Communities with the introduction of Blackbaud Church Management™. This next generation cloud offering brings our proven strengths in fundraising and CRM, financial management, marketing, payments and analytics together with completely new church management capabilities, giving church leaders the ability to track gifts and tithing, assimilate new members, directly communicate with their congregations via multi-channel communication, enable members to make online and mobile contributions, manage small groups of volunteers, implement secure child check-in, conduct background checks, provide bulk tax statements and manage facilities. We expect the general release of Blackbaud Church Management in mid-2019.



Second, at our 2018 annual user conference, bbcon, we announced our new Cloud Solution for Higher Education with the introduction of a new Education Management portfolio along with stewardship management and guided fundraising capabilities tailored for higher education. This is another exciting next step forward in our continued commitment to providing comprehensive, purpose-built cloud solutions that drive digital transformation. This comprehensive cloud solution will enable customers to manage the complete student lifecycle from admissions to alumni engagement. Like our Cloud Solution for Faith Communities, our Cloud Solution for Higher Education takes advantage of the rapid innovation, modern user experience, and enhanced capabilities made possible by our Blackbaud 



24Third Quarter 2018 Form 10-Q

Blackbaud, Inc.



SKY cloud platform and is another demonstration of our ability to rapidly build new solutions to further address customer needs and grow our addressable markets.



Third, we announced with Microsoft that we are investing in an Integrated Cloud Initiative for Nonprofits™, which will accelerate cloud innovation in areas that address critical market needs across the mission lifecycle of nonprofits. As part of this initiative, we announced our first jointly-developed solution suite called Nonprofit Resource Management™, which is a breakthrough in helping nonprofits effectively source, track, distribute, and measure the impact of their resources across core business processes from managing the distribution of material goods to financial and human capital distribution. Nonprofit Resource Management is currently in development in collaboration with early adopters. The first capability set, Goods Distribution, is expected to be released in the summer of 2019, with program design and others capabilities to follow. The solution will be sold jointly through Blackbaud and Microsoft partner and sales channels and will work seamlessly with Blackbaud solutions providing a connected experience for the customer. This is another step forward in an evolving partnership between Blackbaud and Microsoft to jointly-develop, co-market and co-sell innovative software technology that will propel the industry forward.





We are making investments to increase the effectiveness of our sales organization, with a focus on enabling our sales teams with the processes and tools to accelerate our revenue growth and improve productivity.



Selling integrated cloud-solutions that are purpose-built for organizations, such as our cloud for K-12 private schools, is a key competitive differentiator for our sales teams. Our sales account executives now lead with a total-solution selling strategy by vertical, focused on recurring revenue and driving more products per customer, higher ASP's, and increased customer retention over the long-term. We believe that attaching training, analytics, and payments improves the cloud experience, drives customer outcomes, improves retention, and increases customer lifetime value. We continue to innovate and acquire solutions that create value for our customers, such as our new Cloud Solutions for Faith Communities and Higher Education and the Integrated Cloud Initiative for Nonprofits with Microsoft, as discussed above.



Our focus has been on driving improved productivity within our existing salesforce through common procedures, training, key operating metrics, compensation plans, and reporting. In addition, we are now underway ramping up our direct sales hiring, and we expect to continue making similar investments during the fourth quarter of 2018 and beyond.



3.Expand TAM into Near Adjacencies through Acquisitions and Product Investments



We continue to evaluate compelling opportunities to acquire companies and acquire or build technologies and services. We are guided by our strategic acquisition criteria for considering attractive assets that expand our total addressable market ("TAM"), provide entry into new and near adjacencies, accelerate our shift to the cloud, accelerate revenue growth, are accretive to margins and present synergistic opportunities.



We have been executing this strategy for several years and have expanded our TAM by approximately $2 billion through acquired businesses. During the second quarter of 2018, we acquired Reeher, expanding our fundraising performance management capabilities with the intent to drive more effective fundraising and greater social good outcomes for our customers.



With the introduction of our new Cloud Solutions for Faith Communities and Higher Education and the Integrated Cloud Initiative for Nonprofits, we are now in a position to organically build and not just acquire incremental TAM. These solution introductions will add approximately $2 billion dollars to our TAM. We remain active in the evaluation of future opportunities to expand our TAM through acquisitions and internal product development.





We are focused on operational efficiency to strengthen the business and deliver improved profitability. We continue driving towards a more scalable operating model that creates efficiency and consistency in how we execute through infrastructure investments, productivity initiatives and organizational re-alignments.



Third Quarter 2018 Form 10-Q25

Blackbaud, Inc.



During 2017, in an effort to further our organizational objectives, including improved operating efficiency, customer outcomes and employee satisfaction, we initiated a multi-year plan to consolidate and relocate some of our existing offices outside of Charleston, South Carolina to highly modern and more collaborative workspaces with short-term financial commitments, and we have already successfully transitioned seven of our offices. The new workspaces are also more centrally located for our employees and closer to our customers and prospects. We currently expect to incur before-tax restructuring costs associated with these activities of between $6.0 million and $8.0 million, with substantially all of the remaining costs expected to be incurred by the end of 2019. We also expect to incur employee severance costs related to the plan; however, these costs cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. We have incurred cumulative before-tax restructuring costs of $4.4 million related to this plan as of September 30, 2018. These restructuring activities are currently expected to result in future annual before-tax savings of between $3.0 million and $4.0 million beginning in 2020.



We have also begun near-shoring certain functions such as customer operations and support on a selective basis to Costa Rica, enabling efficient resource investment to support our growing business.





The increases in total revenue during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, when compared to the same periods in 2017, were primarily driven by growth in recurring revenue as we continue to see positive demand from customers across our portfolio of cloud-based solutions. The inclusion of JustGiving and Reeher also contributed to the increases in recurring and total revenue. One-time services and other revenue declined during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 due to our continued shift in focus towards selling cloud-based subscription solutions. In general, our cloud-based solutions include integrated analytics, training and payments services, and require less implementation services and little to no customization services. We are also selling more subscription-based contracts for professional services and services embedded in our renewable cloud-based solution contracts. As a result, we expect one-time services and other revenue to continue to be negatively impacted. In addition, we have also used promotions and discounts for our consulting services as incentives to accelerate the migration of our existing customer base from on-premises solutions toward our cloud-based subscriptions.





Income from operations decreased during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, when compared to the same periods in 2017. The positive impact of growth in total revenue driven by recurring subscriptions was offset primarily by investments we are making in our sales organization and innovation, which we expect to continue in the fourth quarter of 2018 and beyond, and to a lesser extent, increases in amortization of intangible assets from business combinations of $1.2 million and $3.3 million, respectively. Also contributing to the decline in income from operations during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 were increases in stock-based compensation of $4.6 million, restructuring costs of $3.6 million and net acquisition-related costs of $0.8 million.



26Third Quarter 2018 Form 10-Q

Blackbaud, Inc.



Customer retention



Our recurring revenue contracts are generally for a term of three years at contract inception with one to three-year renewals thereafter. We anticipate a continued decrease in maintenance contract renewals as we transition our solution portfolio and maintenance customers from a perpetual license-based model to a cloud-based subscription delivery model. In the long term, we also anticipate an increase in recurring subscription contract renewals as we continue focusing on innovation, quality and the integration of our cloud-based solutions, which we believe will provide value-adding capabilities to better address our customers' needs. Due primarily to these factors, we believe a recurring revenue customer retention measure that combines recurring subscription, maintenance and service customer contracts provides an accurate representation of our customers' overall behavior. For the twelve months ended September 30, 2018, approximately 92% of our customers with recurring revenue contracts were retained. This customer retention rate reflects a modest decrease from our rate for the full year ended December 31, 2017, and was driven by our efforts to rationalize our portfolio of solutions and migrate customers from legacy solutions towards our next generation cloud-based solutions.



Balance sheet and cash flow



At September 30, 2018, our cash and cash equivalents were $25.4 million and the carrying amount of our debt under the 2017 Credit Facility was $424.2 million. Our net leverage ratio was 2.02 to 1.00. 



During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we generated $137.8 million in cash flow from operations, had a net decrease in our borrowings of $13.3 million, inclusive of the incremental borrowings needed to finance the acquisition of Reeher, returned $17.5 million to stockholders by way of dividends and had aggregate cash outlays of $39.5 million for purchases of property and equipment and capitalized software development costs.



Results of Operations



Comparison of the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 



We have included the results of operations of Reeher in our consolidated results of operations from the date of acquisition. We determined that the Reeher acquisition was not a material business combination; therefore, revenue and earnings since the acquisition date are not required or presented.



Reclassifications



Our revenue from "subscriptions" and "maintenance" and a portion of our "services and other" revenue have been combined within "recurring" revenue beginning in 2018. In order to provide comparability between periods presented, those amounts of revenue have been combined within "recurring" revenue in the previously reported consolidated statements of comprehensive income to conform to presentation of the current period. Similarly, "cost of subscriptions" and "cost of maintenance" and a portion of "cost of services and other" have been combined within "cost of recurring" in the previously reported consolidated statements of comprehensive income to conform to presentation of the current period. "Services and other" revenue has been renamed as "one-time services and other" and consists of revenue that did not meet the description of "recurring" revenue in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income. "Cost of services and other" has been renamed as "cost of one-time services and other" and consists of costs that did not meet the description of those related to "recurring" revenue in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income.



Adoption of New Revenue Accounting Standard



On January 1, 2018, we adopted ASU 2014-09, using the full retrospective method of transition, which requires that the standard be applied to all periods presented. The impacts of adoption are reflected in the financial information herein. For additional details, see Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements in this report.



Third Quarter 2018 Form 10-Q27

Blackbaud, Inc.



Operating results







Recurring revenue is comprised of fees for the use of our subscription-based software solutions, which includes providing access to cloud-based solutions, hosting services, online training programs, subscription-based analytic services, such as donor acquisitions and data enrichment, and payment services. Recurring revenue also includes fees from maintenance services for our on-premises solutions, services included in our renewable subscription contracts, subscription-based contracts for professional services and variable transaction revenue associated with the use of our solutions.



Cost of recurring revenue is primarily comprised of compensation costs for customer support and production IT personnel, third-party contractor expenses, third-party royalty and data expenses, hosting expenses, allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs, amortization of intangible assets from business combinations, amortization of software development costs, transaction-based costs related to payments services including remittances of amounts due to third-parties and other costs incurred in providing support and recurring services to our customers.



We continue to experience growth in sales of our cloud-based solutions as we meet the demand of our customers that increasingly prefer cloud-based subscription offerings with integrated analytic, training and payment services. Recurring subscription contracts are typically for a term of three years at contract inception with one to three-year renewals thereafter. We intend to continue focusing on innovation, quality and integration of our cloud-based solutions, which we believe will drive future revenue growth.



The increases in recurring revenue during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, when compared to the same periods in 2017, were primarily due to positive demand across our portfolio of cloud-based solutions as revenue from subscriptions increased $26.4 million and $84.2 million, respectively. The inclusion of JustGiving and Reeher also contributed to the increases in recurring revenue and their impacts are expected to remain modest in the near term due to U.K. market conditions and our acquisition-related integration efforts. The favorable impacts from subscriptions were partially offset by decreases in maintenance revenue of $5.2 million and $15.9 million, respectively, during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, when compared to the same periods in 2017. The decreases in maintenance revenue were primarily related to our ongoing efforts to migrate of our existing customer base from on-premises solutions onto our solutions powered by Blackbaud SKY, our modern cloud platform.



The increase in cost of recurring revenue during the three months ended September 30, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017, was primarily due to increases in transaction-based costs of $2.5 million, related to payment services integrated in our cloud-based solutions, data center costs of $2.1 million, allocations of depreciation, facilities and IT support costs of $1.6 million and amortization of software development costs of $0.6 million.



The increase in cost of recurring revenue during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017, was primarily due to an increase in transaction-based costs of $9.0 million directly related to an increase in transactional revenue. Also contributing to the increase in cost of recurring revenue were increases in data center costs of $5.3 million, allocations of depreciation, facilities and IT support costs of $2.3 million, amortization of software development costs of $2.5 million and compensation costs, driven by resource additions that are directly related to generating recurring revenue.



The inclusion of JustGiving and Reeher also contributed to the increases in costs of recurring revenue during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 when compared to the same periods in 2017.



28Third Quarter 2018 Form 10-Q

Blackbaud, Inc.



The decrease in recurring gross margin for the three months ended September 30, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017, was primarily the result of incremental data center costs and, to a lesser extent, incremental amortization of software development costs, as growth in costs of recurring revenue outpaced the growth in related revenue.







One-time services and other revenue is comprised of fees for one-time consulting, analytic and onsite training services, as well as revenue from the sale of our software sold under perpetual license arrangements, fees from user conferences and third-party software referral fees.



Cost of one-time services and other is primarily comprised of compensation costs for professional services and onsite training personnel, other costs incurred in providing onsite customer training, third-party contractor expenses, data expense incurred to perform one-time analytic services, third-party software royalties, costs of user conferences, allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs and amortization of intangible assets from business combinations.



One-time services and other revenue decreased during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, when compared to the same periods in 2017, primarily due to decreases in one-time consulting revenue of $2.7 million and $5.3 million, respectively, and analytics revenue of $2.9 million and $4.8 million, respectively. We expect that the ongoing shift in our go-to-market strategy towards cloud-based subscription offerings, which generally include integrated analytics and require less implementation and customization services, will continue to negatively impact one-time services and other revenue. We are also selling more subscription-based contracts for professional services and services embedded in our renewable cloud-based solution contracts. In addition, we have also used promotions and discounts for our consulting services as incentives to accelerate the migration of our existing customer base from on-premises solutions toward our cloud-based subscriptions.



Cost of one-time services and other decreased during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, when compared to the same periods in 2017, primarily due to decreases in compensation costs, which is in line with the ongoing shift in our go-to-market strategy as discussed above. Productivity gains also contributed to the decreases in cost of one-time services and other.



One-time services and other gross margin decreased during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, when compared to the same periods in 2017, as the declines in higher margin analytics and license fees revenue associated with the shift in our go-to-market strategy outpaced the reductions in costs of one-time services and other discussed above. This is a trend we expect to continue in the near term as we complete the transition of our solution portfolio to a cloud-based subscription delivery model.



Third Quarter 2018 Form 10-Q29

Blackbaud, Inc.



Operating expenses





Sales, marketing, and customer success expense includes compensation costs, variable-sales commissions, travel-related expenses, advertising and marketing materials, public relations costs, variable reseller commissions and allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs.



We continue to make investments to drive sales effectiveness, which is a component of our four-point growth strategy to accelerate revenue growth. We also continue investing in our customer success organization to drive customer outcomes, loyalty, retention, and referrals. The increase in sales, marketing and customer success expense in dollars and as a percentage of total revenue during the three months ended September 30, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017, was primarily due to increases in compensation costs of $2.2 million and commissions expense of $2.1 million. The increase in sales, marketing and customer success expense in dollars and as a percentage of total revenue during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017, was primarily due to increases in compensation costs of $6.9 million, commissions expense of $5.0 million, and advertising and marketing costs of $2.1 million. Compensation costs increased as a result of our efforts that are currently underway to increase our direct sales force and we expect to continue making similar investments during the fourth quarter of 2018 and beyond. These incremental investments are intended to fuel revenue growth in late 2019 and more fully in 2020. In addition, compensation costs increased due to incremental headcount associated with the inclusion of JustGiving and Reeher. The increases in commission expense were primarily driven by increases in commissionable sales. Advertising and marketing costs increased as a result of our inclusion of JustGiving.



30Third Quarter 2018 Form 10-Q

Blackbaud, Inc.





Research and development expense includes compensation costs for engineering and product management personnel, third-party contractor expenses, software development tools and other expenses related to developing new solutions, upgrading and enhancing existing solutions, and allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs.



We continue to make investments to deliver integrated and open solutions in the cloud, which is a component of our four-point growth strategy to accelerate revenue growth. The increases in research and development expense dollars during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, when compared to the same periods in 2017, were primarily due to increases in compensation costs of $1.8 million and $5.6 million, respectively, and third-party contractor expenses of $1.9 million and $5.1 million, respectively. The increases in compensation costs were primarily associated with the inclusion of JustGiving's and Reeher's engineering resources. The incremental third-party contractor expenses were intended to help drive our solution development efforts, including our new Cloud Solutions for Faith Communities and Higher Education and the Integrated Cloud Initiative for Nonprofits. Research and development expense as a percentage of total revenue remained relatively similar during both periods.





General and administrative expense consists primarily of compensation costs for general corporate functions, including senior management, finance, accounting, legal, human resources and corporate development, third-party professional fees, insurance, allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs, acquisition-related expenses and other administrative expenses.



The increase in general and administrative expense in dollars during the three months ended September 30, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017, was primarily due to an increase in third-party contractor expenses of $1.3 million. The increase in general and administrative expense in dollars and as a percentage of total revenue during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017, was primarily due to increases in compensation costs of $4.3 million, third-party contractor expenses of $3.6 million, and net acquisition-related costs of $0.8 million. The increase in compensation costs was driven by a combination of higher salaries and employee benefits, primarily related to the inclusion of JustGiving and Reeher personnel, and stock-based compensation. The increases in third-party contractor expenses and acquisition-related integration costs were primarily related to our recent business acquisitions.



Third Quarter 2018 Form 10-Q31

Blackbaud, Inc.



Restructuring



During 2017, in an effort to further our organizational objectives including, improved operating efficiency, customer outcomes and employee satisfaction, we initiated a multi-year plan to consolidate and relocate some of our existing offices to highly modern and more collaborative workspaces with short-term financial commitments. These workspaces are also more centrally located for our employees and closer to our customers and prospects. Restructuring costs incurred to date and expected to be incurred consist primarily of costs to terminate existing lease agreements, contractual lease payments, net of estimated sublease income, upon vacating space as part of the plan, as well as insignificant costs to relocate affected employees and write-off leasehold improvement assets that we will no longer use. We currently expect to incur before-tax restructuring costs associated with these activities of between $6.0 million and $8.0 million, with substantially all of the remaining costs expected to be incurred by the end of 2019. We also expect to incur employee severance costs related to the plan; however, these costs cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. These restructuring activities are currently expected to result in improved operating efficiencies and future annual before-tax savings of between $3.0 million and $4.0 million beginning in 2020. 











Third Quarter 2018 Form 10-Q32

Blackbaud, Inc.





Interest expense increased during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, when compared to the same periods in 2017, primarily due to increases in our average daily borrowings related to our acquisitions of JustGiving in October 2017 and Reeher in April 2018. Also contributing to the increases in interest expense during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 were modest increases in our weighted average effective interest rates.



Deferred revenue









To the extent that our customers are billed for our solutions and services in advance of delivery, we record such amounts in deferred revenue. Our recurring revenue contracts are generally for a term of three years at contract inception with one to three-year renewals thereafter, billed annually in advance and non-cancelable. We generally invoice our customers with recurring revenue contracts in annual cycles 30 days prior to the end of the contract term.



Deferred revenue from recurring revenue contracts increased during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, primarily due to new subscription sales of our cloud-based solutions and a seasonal increase in customer contract renewals. Historically, due to the timing of customer budget cycles, we have an increase in customer contract renewals in our second quarter as compared to our fourth quarter. Deferred revenue from one-time services and other increased during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, primarily due to a seasonal increase in advance registration billings associated with our bbcon user conference, which occurs each year in October. A modest increase in one-time consulting sales also contributed to the increase in deferred revenue from one-time services and other.



We have acquired businesses whose net tangible assets include deferred revenue. In accordance with GAAP reporting requirements, we recorded write-downs of deferred revenue from customer arrangements predating the acquisition to fair value, which resulted in lower recorded deferred revenue as of the acquisition date than the actual amounts paid in advance for solutions and services under those customer arrangements. Therefore, our deferred revenue after an acquisition will not reflect the full amount of deferred revenue that would have been reported if the acquired deferred revenue was not written down to fair value. Further explanation of this impact is included below under the caption "Non-GAAP financial measures".



Third Quarter 2018 Form 10-Q33

Blackbaud, Inc.





The decrease in our effective income tax rate during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017, was primarily due to the impact of the discrete benefit to income tax expense relating to stock-based compensation items, calculated prior to the impact of the U.S. federal corporate tax rate change as a result of the Tax Act. This favorable impact was attributable to an increase in the market price for shares of our common stock, as reported by Nasdaq, as well as an increase in the number of stock awards that vested and were exercised. Most of our equity awards are granted during our first quarter and vest in subsequent years during the same quarter. This discrete benefit to income tax expense relating to stock-based compensation during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 was reduced as a result of the decrease in the U.S. corporate tax rate.



The decreases in our effective income tax rates during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, as compared to the same periods in 2017, were also attributable to the impact of the lower U.S. federal corporate tax rate on pre-tax income and the release of our tax reserve due to the expiration of the federal statute of limitations for 2014.



In December 2017, the Tax Act was signed into law making significant changes to the Internal Revenue Code. Changes include, but are not limited to, a corporate tax rate decrease from 35% to 21% effective for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, the transition of U.S. international taxation from a worldwide tax system to a territorial system, and a one-time transition tax on the mandatory deemed repatriation of cumulative foreign earnings as of December 31, 2017. 



On December 22, 2017, Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 (“SAB 118”) was issued to address the application of U.S. GAAP in situations when a registrant does not have the necessary information available, prepared or analyzed (including computations) in reasonable detail to complete the accounting for certain income tax effects of the Tax Act. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, the Company finalized its calculation of the transition tax as of December 31, 2017, and the impact to our effective income tax rate was insignificant.



The Tax Act eliminates the exceptions for performance-based compensation and CFO compensation from the calculation under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code. A transition rule allows for the grandfathering of performance-based compensation pursuant to a written binding contract in effect as of November 2, 2017. On August 21, 2018, the Internal Revenue Service issued Notice 2018-68 providing guidance regarding amendments to Section 162(m) contained in the Tax Act, including application of the transition rule. As a result of this guidance, the Company finalized its calculations of the Section 162(m) deduction and the ending estimated deferred tax assets for the performance-based stock compensation and the bonus accrual, which resulted in an insignificant impact to our effective income tax rate.



Our estimates of the impact of the Tax Act may change due to a number of additional considerations including, but not limited to, the issuance of additional regulations or guidance and our ongoing analysis of the new law. Any subsequent adjustment to these amounts will be recorded to tax expense when the analysis is complete.



34Third Quarter 2018 Form 10-Q

Blackbaud, Inc.



Non-GAAP financial measures



The operating results analyzed below are presented on a non-GAAP basis. We use non-GAAP revenue, non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP income from operations, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share internally in analyzing our operational performance. Accordingly, we believe these non-GAAP measures are useful to investors, as a supplement to GAAP measures, in evaluating our ongoing operational performance. While we believe these non-GAAP measures provide useful supplemental information, non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures may not be completely comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies due to potential differences in the exact method of calculation between companies.



We have acquired businesses whose net tangible assets include deferred revenue. In accordance with GAAP reporting requirements, we recorded write-downs of deferred revenue under arrangements predating the acquisition to fair value, which resulted in lower recognized revenue than the contributed purchase price until the related obligations to provide services under such arrangements are fulfilled. Therefore, our GAAP revenues after the acquisitions will not reflect the full amount of revenue that would have been reported if the acquired deferred revenue was not written down to fair value. The non-GAAP measures described below reverse the acquisition-related deferred revenue write-downs so that the full amount of revenue booked by the acquired companies is included, which we believe provides a more accurate representation of a revenue run-rate in a given period and, therefore, will provide more meaningful comparative results in future periods. 



The non-GAAP financial measures discussed below exclude the impact of certain transactions because we believe they are not directly related to our operating performance in any particular period, but are for our long-term benefit over multiple periods. We believe that these non-GAAP financial measures reflect our ongoing business in a manner that allows for meaningful period-to-period comparisons and analysis of trends in our business.







Third Quarter 2018 Form 10-Q35

Blackbaud, Inc.







Non-GAAP free cash flow is defined as operating cash flow less capital expenditures, including costs required to be capitalized for software development, and capital expenditures for property and equipment.





36Third Quarter 2018 Form 10-Q

Blackbaud, Inc.



Non-GAAP organic revenue growth



In addition, we discuss non-GAAP organic revenue growth, non-GAAP organic revenue growth on a constant currency basis and non-GAAP organic recurring revenue growth, in analyzing our performance. We believe that these non-GAAP measures are useful to investors, as a supplement to GAAP measures, for evaluating the periodic growth of our business on a consistent basis. Each of these measures of non-GAAP organic revenue growth excludes incremental acquisition-related revenue attributable to companies acquired in the current fiscal year. For companies, if any, acquired in the immediately preceding fiscal year, each of these non-GAAP organic revenue growth measures reflects presentation of full year incremental non-GAAP revenue derived from such companies as if they were combined throughout the prior period, and they include the non-GAAP revenue attributable to those companies, as if there were no acquisition-related write-downs of acquired deferred revenue to fair value as required by GAAP. In addition, each of these non-GAAP organic revenue growth measures excludes prior period revenue associated with divested businesses. The exclusion of the prior period revenue is to present the results of the divested businesses within the results of the combined company for the same period of time in both the prior and current periods. We believe this presentation provides a more comparable representation of our current business’ organic revenue growth and revenue run-rate. 











Third Quarter 2018 Form 10-Q37

Blackbaud, Inc.



Seasonality



Our revenues normally fluctuate as a result of certain seasonal variations in our business. Our transaction revenue has historically been at its lowest in the first quarter due to the timing of customer fundraising initiatives and events. Our revenue from payment services has historically increased during the fourth quarter due to year-end giving. Our revenue from professional services has historically been lower in the first quarter when many of those services commence and in the fourth quarter due to the holiday season. As a result of these and other factors, our total revenue has historically been lower in the first quarter than in the remainder of our fiscal year, with the third and fourth quarters historically achieving the highest total revenues. Our expenses, however, do not vary significantly as a result of these factors, but do fluctuate on a quarterly basis due to varying timing of expenditures. Our cash flow from operations normally fluctuates quarterly due to the combination of the timing of customer contract renewals including renewals associated with customers of acquired companies, delivery of professional services and occurrence of customer events, the payment of bonuses, as well as merit-based salary increases, among other factors. Historically, due to lower revenues in our first quarter, combined with the payment of bonuses from the prior year in our first quarter, our cash flow from operations has been lowest in our first quarter, and due to the timing of customer contract renewals, many of which take place at or near the beginning of our third quarter, our cash flow from operations has been lower in our second quarter as compared to our third and fourth quarters. Partially offsetting these favorable drivers of cash flow from operations in our third and fourth quarters are merit-based salary increases, which are generally effective in April each year. In addition, deferred revenues can vary on a seasonal basis for the same reasons. These patterns may change as a result of the continued shift to online giving, growth in volume of transactions for which we process payments, or as a result of acquisitions, new market opportunities, new solution introductions or other factors. Our cash flow from financing is negatively impacted in our first quarter when most of our equity awards vest, as we pay taxes on behalf of our employees related to the settlement or exercise of equity awards.



Liquidity and Capital Resources













38Third Quarter 2018 Form 10-Q

Blackbaud, Inc.



At September 30, 2018, our total cash and cash equivalents balance included approximately $14.8 million of cash that was held by operations outside the U.S. While these funds may not be needed to fund our U.S. operations for at least the next twelve months, if we need these funds, we may be required to accrue and pay taxes to repatriate the funds. We currently do not intend nor anticipate a need to repatriate our cash held outside the U.S.



Operating cash flow





Working capital changes are composed of changes in accounts receivable, prepaid expenses and other assets, trade accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities, and deferred revenue. Cash flow from operations associated with working capital increased $9.3 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017, primarily due to an increase in the collection of customer account balances.



Investing cash flow



Net cash used in investing activities of $84.9 million increased by $6.6 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017. 



During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we used net cash of $45.3 million, primarily for our acquisition of Reeher, while we made a similar investment during the same period in 2017 with our acquisition of AcademicWorks. We used $26.6 million for software development costs, which was up $6.0 million from cash spent during the same period in 2017. The increase in cash outlays for software development costs was primarily driven by development activities related to our cloud-based solutions as well as development activities for Blackbaud SKY, our modern cloud platform.



We also spent $12.9 million of cash for purchases of property and equipment during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, which was up $4.5 million from cash spent during the same period in 2017. The increase in cash outlays for property and equipment was primarily driven by leasehold improvements for our new global headquarters in Charleston, South Carolina.



Financing cash flow



During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we had a net decrease in borrowings of $13.3 million, even with the incremental borrowings needed to finance our acquisition of Reeher.



We paid $27.4 million to satisfy tax obligations of employees upon settlement or exercise of equity awards during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 compared to $19.1 million during the same period in 2017. The amount of taxes paid by us on the behalf of employees related to the settlement or exercise of equity awards varies from period to period based upon the timing of grants and vesting, employee exercise decisions, as well as the market price for shares of our common stock at the time of settlement. Most of our equity awards currently vest in our first quarter. In addition, during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we paid dividends of $17.5 million, which was relatively consistent with the comparable period of 2017.



Cash used in financing activities associated with changes in restricted cash due to customers increased $211.0 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 when compared to the same period in 2017, as the amount of restricted cash held and payable by us to customers as of December 31, 2017 was significantly larger than at the same date in 2016.





We have drawn on our credit facility from time to time to help us meet financial needs, such as financing for business acquisitions. At September 30, 2018, our available borrowing capacity under the 2017 Credit Facility was $260.6 million. The 2017 Credit Facility matures in June 2022.



Third Quarter 2018 Form 10-Q39

Blackbaud, Inc.



At September 30, 2018, the carrying amount of our debt under the 2017 Credit Facility was $424.2 million. Our average daily borrowings during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 were $447.1 million and $460.7 million, respectively.









Commitments and contingencies













The term loan under the 2017 Credit Facility and our other debt require periodic principal payments. The balance of the term loans and any amounts drawn on the revolving credit loans are due upon maturity of the 2017 Credit Facility in June 2022.



The total liability for uncertain tax positions as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, was $4.3 million and $5.2 million, respectively. Our accrued interest and penalties related to tax positions taken on our tax returns was $0.7 million and $0.8 million as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.



In February 2018, our Board of Directors approved our annual dividend rate of $0.48 per share to be made in quarterly payments. Dividends at this annual rate would aggregate to $23.5 million assuming 49.0 million shares of common stock are outstanding, although dividends are not guaranteed and our Board of Directors may decide, in its absolute discretion, to change or suspend dividend payments at any time for any reason. Our ability to continue to declare and pay dividends quarterly this year and beyond might be restricted by, among other things, the terms of the 2017 Credit Facility, general economic conditions and our ability to generate adequate operating cash flow.



40Third Quarter 2018 Form 10-Q

Blackbaud, Inc.



On October 29, 2018, our Board of Directors declared a fourth quarter dividend of $0.12 per share payable on December 14, 2018 to stockholders of record on November 28, 2018.



Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements



As of September 30, 2018, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K promulgated by the SEC that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in our financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that is material to investors.



Foreign Currency Exchange Rates



Approximately 15% of our total revenue for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was generated from operations outside the United States. We do not have significant operations in countries in which the economy is considered to be highly inflationary. Our consolidated financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars and, accordingly, changes in the exchange rate between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar will affect the translation of our subsidiaries’ financial results into U.S. dollars for purposes of reporting our consolidated financial results. The accumulated currency translation adjustment, recorded within accumulated other comprehensive loss as a component of stockholders’ equity, was a loss of $2.8 million as of September 30, 2018 and a loss of $1.4 million as of December 31, 2017.



The vast majority of our contracts are entered into by our U.S. or U.K. entities. The contracts entered into by the U.S. entity are almost always denominated in U.S. dollars or Canadian dollars, and contracts entered into by our U.K., Australian and Irish subsidiaries are generally denominated in British Pounds, Australian dollars and Euros, respectively. Historically, as the U.S. dollar weakened, foreign currency translation resulted in an increase in our revenues and expenses denominated in non-U.S. currencies. Conversely, as the U.S. dollar strengthened, foreign currency translation resulted in a decrease in our revenue and expenses denominated in non-U.S. currencies. During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, foreign translation resulted in an increase in our revenues and expenses denominated in non-U.S. currencies. Though we have exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, primarily those between the U.S. dollar and both the British Pound and Canadian dollar, the impact has generally not been material to our consolidated results of operations or financial position. For the nine months ended September 30, 2018, the fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates increased our total revenue by $3.3 million and our income from operations by $0.7 million. We will continue monitoring such exposure and take action as appropriate. To determine the impacts on revenue (or income from operations) from fluctuations in currency exchange rates, current period revenues (or income from operations) from entities reporting in foreign currencies were translated into U.S. dollars using the comparable prior year period's weighted average foreign currency exchange rates. These impacts are non-GAAP financial information and are not in accordance with, or an alternative to, information prepared in accordance with GAAP.



Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates



Our discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. On an ongoing basis, we reconsider and evaluate our estimates and assumptions.



We base our estimates on historical experience, current trends and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results could materially differ from any of our estimates under different assumptions or conditions.



Except for our accounting policies for revenue recognition and deferred commissions (herein referred to as "costs of obtaining contracts") that were updated as a result of adopting ASU 2014-09, there have been no significant changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 as compared to those 



Third Quarter 2018 Form 10-Q41

Blackbaud, Inc.



disclosed in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017.



Revenue Recognition  



DescriptionJudgments and Uncertainties



Effect if Actual Results Differ



 From Assumptions



See Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements in this report for a complete discussion of our revenue recognition policies.



Revenues are recognized when control of our services is transferred to our customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those services.















Our revenue recognition accounting methodology contains uncertainties because it requires us to make significant estimates and assumptions, and to apply judgment.



For example, for arrangements that have multiple performance obligations, we must exercise judgment and use estimates in order to (1) determine whether performance obligations are distinct and should be accounted for separately; (2) determine the standalone selling price of each performance obligation; (3) allocate the transaction price among the various performance obligations on a relative standalone selling price basis; and (4) determine whether revenue for each performance obligation should be recognized at a point in time or over time. 



In addition, we exercise judgment in certain transactions when determining whether we should recognize revenue based on the gross amount billed to a customer (as a principal) or the net amount retained (as an agent). These judgments are based on our determination of whether or not we control the service before it is transferred to the customer.



If we were to change any of these judgments or estimates, it could cause a material increase or decrease in the amount of revenue or deferred revenue that we report in a particular period.



Costs of Obtaining Contracts  



DescriptionJudgments and Uncertainties



Effect if Actual Results Differ



 From Assumptions



We pay sales commissions at the time contracts with customers are signed or shortly thereafter, depending on the size and duration of the sales contract. Sales commissions and related fringe benefits earned by our sales force are considered incremental and recoverable costs of obtaining a contract with a customer. These costs are deferred and then amortized in a manner that aligns with the expected period of benefit, which we have determined to be five years. We do not generally pay commissions for contract renewals. The related amortization expense is included in sales, marketing and customer success expense in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income.



Our accounting methodology for determining the period over which we amortize costs of obtaining contracts with customers contains uncertainties because it requires us to make significant estimates and assumptions, and to apply judgment.



For example, we must exercise judgment and use estimates in order to determine the expected period of benefit of our sales commissions. We take into consideration our customer contracts, including renewals, retention, our technology and other factors.If we were to change any of these judgments or estimates, it could cause a material increase or decrease in the amount of assets, operating expenses or income that we report in a particular period.



Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements



For a discussion of the impact that recently issued accounting pronouncements are expected to have on our financial position and results of operations when adopted in the future, see Note 2 of our consolidated financial statements in this report.



42Third Quarter 2018 Form 10-Q

Blackbaud, Inc.



ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS



Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities



The following table provides information about shares of common stock acquired or repurchased during the three months ended September 30, 2018. All of these acquisitions were of common stock withheld by us to satisfy tax obligations of employees due upon exercise of stock appreciation rights and vesting of restricted stock awards and units. The level of acquisition activity varies from period to period based upon the timing of grants and vesting as well as employee exercise decisions.







44Third Quarter 2018 Form 10-Q

Blackbaud, Inc.



ITEM 6. EXHIBITS









Third Quarter 2018 Form 10-Q45

Blackbaud, Inc.



 SIGNATURES



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.





46Third Quarter 2018 Form 10-Q
