item1.txt
These assets are reported under the North America Products operating segment.
See Note 6 for additional information.
We believe these plans, if successfully executed, may remediate the current liquidity concerns.
The reported results for periods presented in Fiscal 2019 reflect the application of ASC 606 while the reported results for periods presented in Fiscal 2018 were prepared under ASC 605, Revenue Recognition.
Products revenues represent product-only networking solutions sold through our Products platform.
Payments are due from customers after we satisfy these performance obligations.
Revenues recognized in the first quarter of Fiscal 2019 from performance obligations satisfied (or partially satisfied) in previous periods, as a result of changes in estimates under the cost-to-cost input method or otherwise, were not significant.
We have also taken the practical expedient as outlined in ASC 340-40-25-4 where we will recognize the incremental costs of obtaining a contract as an expense when incurred if the amortization period of the asset that the entity otherwise would have recognized is one year or less.
The Company’s indefinite-lived intangible assets consist solely of the Company’s trademark portfolio.
Under the Amended Credit Agreement, the leverage ratio covenant is suspended until the second quarter of Fiscal 2019.
Interest on the LIFO Facility is LIBOR plus 10.0%.
Such notices may be sent upon an event of default or potential default.
The outstanding balance of the LIFO Facility and all accrued and unpaid interest, fees and expenses are due and payable on December 15, 2018 or the earlier proper termination of the LIFO Facility by the Agent following an event of default.
It does not hold or issue derivatives for speculative trading purposes.
The effective portion of any changes in the fair value of the derivative instruments is recorded in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income ("AOCI") until the hedged forecasted transaction occurs or the recognized currency transaction affects earnings.
There was no hedge ineffectiveness during Fiscal 2019 or Fiscal 2018.
As of June 30, 2018, 1,107,149 shares were available under the most recent repurchase programs.


item2.txt
References to “1Q19” mean the three-month period ended June 30, 2018 while references to “1Q18” mean the three-month period ended June 30, 2017.
All dollar amounts are presented in thousands except for per share amounts or unless otherwise noted.
The Second Amended Credit Agreement established a new “last in first out” senior revolving credit facility in an amount not to exceed $10,000 (the “LIFO Facility”).
Interest on the LIFO Facility is LIBOR plus 10.0%.
Black Box is a leading digital solutions provider dedicated to helping customers design, build, manage and secure their IT infrastructure.
Management strives to develop extensive and long-term relationships with high-quality clients as Management believes that satisfied clients will demand quality services and product offerings from us even in economic downturns.
During that same period, a covenant was established to limit capital expenditures to an agreed upon amount.
On June 29, 2018, the Company and the Loan Parties entered into a Second Amendment with the Lenders to amend the Credit Agreement entered into on May 9, 2016 (as amended by Amended Credit Agreement and as further amended by the Second Amended Credit Agreement).
The Second Amended Credit Agreement established a new LIFO Facility in an amount not to exceed $10,000.
Interest on the LIFO Facility is LIBOR plus 10.0%.
The Company continues to engage Raymond James as its financial advisor to assist the Company in exploring strategic alternatives.


item3.txt
The total open contracts had a notional amount of $47,885 and will expire within two months.


item4.txt
Management assessed the effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures as of June 30, 2018.


part2.txt



