We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements, including to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of the filing of this report, except to the extent required by law.
The fiscal year ending November 2, 2019 (fiscal 2019) is a 52-week year and the fiscal year ended November 3, 2018 (fiscal 2018) was a 53-week year.
Therefore, the first nine months of fiscal 2019 included one less week of operations as compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2018.
The following tables summarize revenue by end market for the three- and nine-month periods ended August 3, 2019 and August 4, 2018.
The categorization of revenue by end market is determined using a variety of data points including the technical characteristics of the product, the “sold to” customer information, the “ship to” customer information and the end customer product or application into which our product will be incorporated.
As data systems for capturing and tracking this data and our methodology evolve and improve, the categorization of products by end market can vary over time.
Such reclassifications typically do not materially change the sizing of, or the underlying trends of results within, each end market.
Automotive end market revenues decreased in the three-month period ended August 3, 2019, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, primarily as a result of a broad-based decrease in demand for our products.
Consumer end market revenues decreased in the three-month period ended August 3, 2019, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, primarily as a result of decreased demand for products used in portable consumer applications.
Industrial end market revenues decreased in the nine-month period ended August 3, 2019, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, primarily as a result of a decrease in demand for products sold into the automation and memory test sectors of this end market and one less week of operations in the first nine months of fiscal 2019, as compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2018, partially offset by an increase in demand for products sold into the aerospace and defense sector of this end market.
Automotive end market revenues decreased in the nine-month period ended August 3, 2019, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, primarily as a result of a broad-based decrease in demand for our products and one less week of operations in the first nine months of fiscal 2019, as compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2018.
Consumer end market revenues decreased in the nine-month period ended August 3, 2019, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, primarily as a result of decreased demand for products used in portable consumer applications and one less week of operations in the first nine months of fiscal 2019 as compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2018.
Communications end market revenue increased in the nine-month period ended August 3, 2019, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, as a result of an increase in demand for our products sold into the wireless sector of this end market, partially offset by one less week of operations in the first nine months of fiscal 2019 as compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2018.
Gross margin percentage decreased by 70 and 80 basis points in the three- and nine-month periods ended August 3, 2019, respectively, as compared to the same periods of the prior fiscal year, primarily as a result of lower internal utilization of our wafer fabrication facilities.
As a result of these assessments, we have undertaken various restructuring actions over the past several years.
We recorded special charges of $51.1 million on a cumulative basis through August 3, 2019 as a result of our decision to consolidate certain wafer and test facility operations acquired as part of the acquisition of Linear Technology Corporation (Linear) of which $6.6 million was recorded in the first nine months of fiscal 2019 related to one-time termination benefits for employees included in this action.
required for employees to earn these benefits.
Employees included in this action must continue to be employed by us until their employment is terminated by us in order to receive the severance benefits.
See Note 6, Special Charges, of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Part I, Item 1 in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further information.
The year-over-year decrease in nonoperating expense in the three- and nine-month periods ended August 3, 2019 was primarily the result of a decrease in interest expense including lower amortized finance fees, which were accelerated as a result of principal repayments related to our previously outstanding 3-year and 5-year term loans.
In the nine-month period this decrease in interest expense was partially offset by an increase in other, net expenses, primarily resulting from the impairment of an investment recognized in the second quarter of fiscal 2019.
The tax rate for the nine-month period also includes the effects of recording deferred tax benefits relating to a one-time set up of our GILTI deferred method election of $5.1 million along with the completion of our accounting for the transition tax which yielded a $7.5 million tax benefit.
It also included a provisional estimate of the discrete tax charge of $687.1 million from the Tax Legislation’s one-time transition tax associated with our undistributed foreign earnings, comprised of a $751.1 million transitional tax less a deferred tax liability of $64.0 million recorded in prior years.
The full year tax benefit from share-based payments was $26.2 million in fiscal 2018.
Non-U.S. jurisdictions accounted for a significant portion of our total revenues for the nine-month periods ended August 3, 2019 and August 4, 2018.
For the nine-month period ended August 4, 2018 this pretax income was primarily in Bermuda, Ireland, and Singapore, at tax rates ranging from 0% to 12.5% in these jurisdictions.
See Note 12, Income Taxes, in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further discussion.
Net income decreased in the three-month period ended August 3, 2019, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, as a result of a $42.2 million decrease in operating income and a $5.2 million increase in provision for income taxes, partially offset by a $1.3 million decrease in nonoperating expense.
Net income decreased in the nine-month period ended August 3, 2019 as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, as a result of a $61.1 million decrease in operating income, partially offset by a $31.3 million decrease in provision for income taxes and a $13.0 million decrease in nonoperating expense.
At August 3, 2019, our principal source of liquidity was $612.2 million of cash and cash equivalents, of which approximately $262.6 million was held in the United States.
Our cash and cash equivalents consist of highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less, including money market funds.
We maintain these balances with high credit quality counterparties, continually monitor the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer and diversify our investments in order to minimize our credit risk.
We believe that our existing sources of liquidity and cash expected to be generated from future operations, together with existing and anticipated available long-term financing, will be sufficient to fund operations, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and dividend payments (if any) in the immediate future and for at least the next twelve months.
At August 3, 2019, cash and cash equivalents totaled $612.2 million.
The following changes contributed to the net change in cash and cash equivalents in the nine-month period ended August 3, 2019 as compared to the same period in fiscal 2018.
The decrease in cash provided by operating activities during the nine-month period ended August 3, 2019, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, was primarily the result of changes in working capital.
Cash used for investing activities during the nine-month period ended August 3, 2019, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, remained relatively flat, as increased capital spending was partially offset by decreased payments for acquisitions.
Financing cash flows consist primarily of payments of dividends to stockholders, repurchases of common stock, issuance and repayment of debt, and proceeds from the sale of shares of common stock pursuant to employee equity incentive plans.
The increase in accounts receivable in dollars was primarily the result of normal variations in the timing of collections and billings.
Inventory in dollars increased, primarily as a result of our efforts to balance manufacturing production, demand and inventory levels.
The increase was primarily due to an increase of $344.4 million in the current portion of our debt, an increase in income taxes payable of $80.2
million, and an increase in accrued liabilities of $48.0 million, partially offset by a decrease in accounts payable of $40.7 million.
As of August 3, 2019, we had $5.7 billion of carrying value outstanding on our debt.
Following the refinancing, in the third quarter of fiscal 2019, we made additional principal payments on the term loan facility in the amount of $125.0 million.
These amounts were not contractually due under the terms of the respective term loan agreements.
The Term Loan Agreement contains customary representations and warranties, affirmative and negative covenants and events of default applicable to us and our subsidiaries.
The events of default include, among others, nonpayment of principal, interest, fees or other amounts, failure to perform certain covenants, cross-defaults to certain other indebtedness, insolvency or bankruptcy, customary ERISA defaults or the occurrence of a change of control.
The negative covenants include limitations on liens, indebtedness of non-guarantor subsidiaries and mergers and other fundamental changes, among others.
The Term Loan Agreement also requires us to maintain a consolidated leverage ratio of total consolidated funded debt to consolidated EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization) for a trailing twelve-month period of not greater than 4.0 to 1.0.
Should such a change occur, we may be authorized to increase the covenant back to 4.0 to 1.0.
As of August 3, 2019, we were compliant with these covenants.
On June 28, 2019, we entered into a second amended and restated revolving credit agreement with Bank of America N.A.
as administrative agent and the other banks identified therein as lenders (Revolving Credit Agreement), which further amended and restated our amended and restated revolving credit agreement dated as of September 23, 2016.
In December 2018, we borrowed $75.0 million under the previous revolving credit facility and utilized the proceeds for the repayment of existing indebtedness and working capital requirements.
We repaid the $75.0 million plus interest of $0.2 million in January 2019.
We may borrow under this revolving credit facility in the future and use the proceeds for repayment of existing indebtedness, stock repurchases, acquisitions, capital expenditures, working capital and other lawful corporate purposes.
The Revolving Credit Agreement contains the customary representations and warranties, and affirmative and negative covenants and events of default applicable to the Company and its subsidiaries as summarized above for the Term Loan Agreement.
As of August 3, 2019, we were compliant with these covenants.
We expect capital expenditures for fiscal 2019 to be approximately 5% of fiscal 2019 revenue.
These capital expenditures will be funded with a combination of cash on hand and cash generated from operations.
On August 20, 2019, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.54 per outstanding share of common stock.
The dividend will be paid on September 11, 2019 to all shareholders of record at the close of business on August 30, 2019 and is expected to total approximately $199.5 million.
There have not been any material changes during the nine-month period ended August 3, 2019 to the amounts presented in the table summarizing our contractual obligations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 3, 2018.
From time to time, new accounting pronouncements are issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) that are adopted by us as of the specified effective date.
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASU 2014-09), which supersedes nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under U.S. GAAP.
The core principle of ASU 2014-09 is that an entity should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
Additionally, the guidance requires improved disclosures to help users of financial statements better understand the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers.
The FASB has issued several amendments and updates to the new revenue standard, including guidance related to when an entity should recognize revenue gross as a principal or net as an agent and how an entity should identify performance obligations.
As a result of the adoption of ASU 2014-09, we changed our accounting policy for revenue recognition.
See Note 1, Basis of Presentation, and Note 2, Revenue Recognition, in the Notes to our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for details of the impact of ASU 2014-09 on our financial statements.
In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-16, Income Taxes (Topic 740) (ASU 2016-16).
ASU 2016-16 requires an entity to recognize the income tax consequences of an intra-entity transfer of an asset, other than inventory, when the transfer occurs.
ASU 2016-16 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, and interim periods within those fiscal years.
We adopted ASU 2016-16 in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 using the modified retrospective method with a cumulative-effect adjustment directly to retained earnings.
The adoption of ASU 2016-16 resulted in a cumulative-effect increase in our deferred tax assets of approximately $1.7 billion and an increase to our deferred tax liabilities of $1.3 billion.
Except for the accounting policy for revenue recognition that was updated as a result of adopting ASU 2014-09, there were no other material changes in the nine-month period ended August 3, 2019 to the information provided under the heading “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” in the section entitled "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 3, 2018.
ITEM 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
