The description below includes any material changes to and supersedes the description of the risk factors affecting our business previously discussed in "Risk Factors” set forth in Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 3, 2018.
Significant disruption to global credit and financial markets may also adversely affect our ability to access external financing sources on acceptable terms.
Financial difficulties experienced by our customers could result in nonpayment or payment delays for previously purchased products, thereby increasing our credit risk exposure.
Uncertainty regarding the future stability of the global credit and financial markets could cause the value of the currency in the affected markets to deteriorate, thus reducing the purchasing power of those customers.
In addition, financial difficulties experienced by our suppliers, distributors or customers could result in product delays, increased accounts receivable defaults and inventory challenges.
•a decline in the U.S. government defense budget, changes in spending or budgetary priorities, a prolonged U.S. government shutdown or delays in contract awards;
In addition, the semiconductor market has historically been cyclical and subject to significant economic upturns and downturns.
There can be no assurance (i) that products stocked in our inventory will not be rendered obsolete before we ship them, or (ii) that we will be able to design, develop and produce products in a timely fashion to accommodate changing customer demand.
As a result of these and other factors, we may experience material fluctuations in future revenue, gross margins, operating results, net income and earnings per share on a quarterly or annual basis.
•servicing the substantial debt that we have incurred in connection with the Acquisition.
Changes in these laws and regulations, including those that align to or are associated with the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development's Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) Actions Plans, could impact the jurisdictions where we are deemed to earn income, which could in turn adversely affect our tax liability and results of operations.
We primarily rely on patent, mask work, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies and processes.
Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property, it is possible that competitors or other unauthorized third parties may obtain, copy, reverse engineer, use or disclose our technologies, products and processes.
In addition, any of our existing or future patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented.
As such, any rights granted under these patents may not provide us with adequate protection.
We may not be able to obtain foreign patents or pending applications corresponding to our U.S. patents and applications.
Even if patents are granted, enforcement may not be available or achieved under the circumstances.
If our patents and mask works do not adequately protect our technology, our competitors may be able to offer products similar to ours.
Our competitors may also be able to develop similar technology independently or design around our patents.
We also try to control access to and distribution of our technologies, documentation and other proprietary information.
Despite these efforts, internal or external parties may attempt to copy, disclose, obtain or use our products or technology without our authorization.
Also, former employees may seek employment with our business partners, customers or competitors, and there can be no assurance that the confidential nature of our proprietary information will be maintained in the course of such future employment.
We rely on information technology systems throughout our company to keep financial records and customer data, process orders, manage inventory, coordinate shipments to customers, maintain confidential and proprietary information, assist in semiconductor engineering and other technical activities and operate other critical functions such as Internet connectivity, network communications and email.
Our information technology systems may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to power outages, hardware failures, telecommunication failures, employee malfeasance, user errors, catastrophes or other unforeseen events.
We also rely upon external cloud providers for certain infrastructure activities.
and certain of our products caused by viruses, illegal break-ins or hacking, sabotage, or acts of vandalism by third parties or our employees or contractors.
Our security measures or those of our third party service providers may not detect or prevent security breaches, defects, bugs or errors.
In addition, we provide our confidential and proprietary information to our strategic partners in certain cases where doing so is necessary to conduct our business.
While we employ confidentiality agreements to protect such information, nonetheless those third parties may also be subject to security breaches or otherwise compromise the protection of such information.
Security breaches of our information technology systems or those of our partners could result in the misappropriation or unauthorized disclosure of confidential and proprietary information belonging to us or to our employees, partners, customers or suppliers, which could result in our suffering significant financial or reputational damage.
We typically do not have long-term sales contracts with our customers.
In certain markets where end-user demand may be particularly volatile and difficult to predict, some customers place orders that require us to manufacture product and have it available for shipment, even though the customer is unwilling to make a binding commitment to purchase all, or even any, of the product.
In other instances, we manufacture product based on forecasts of customer demands, which may fluctuate significantly on a quarterly or annual basis.
Additionally, our U.S. government contracts and subcontracts may be funded in increments over a number of government budget periods and typically can be terminated by the government for its convenience.
As a result of lengthy manufacturing cycles for certain of the products that are subject to these uncertainties, the amount of unsaleable product could be substantial.
Our future success depends upon our ability to execute our business strategy, continue to innovate, improve our existing products, design, develop, produce and market new products, and identify and enter new markets.
We may not be able to compete successfully in markets within the semiconductor industry in the future.
We face intense competition in the semiconductor industry, and we expect this competition to increase in the future, including from companies located outside of the United States.
Competition is generally based on innovation, design, quality and reliability of products, product performance, features and functionality, product pricing, availability and capacity, technological service and support, and the availability of integrated system solutions, with the relative importance of these factors varying among products, markets and customers.
Many companies have sufficient financial, manufacturing, technical, sales and marketing resources to develop and market products that compete with our products.
Some of our competitors may have more advantageous supply or development relationships with our current and potential customers or suppliers.
We rely on third-party suppliers, subcontractors and manufacturers for some industry-standard wafers, manufacturing processes, assembly and test services, and transportation, and we generally cannot control their availability or conditions of supply.
We rely, and plan to continue to rely, on third-party suppliers, assembly and test subcontractors, freight carriers and wafer fabricators (collectively, suppliers) to supply most of our products that can be manufactured using industry-standard processes.
This reliance involves several risks, including reduced control over availability, capacity utilization, delivery schedules, manufacturing yields, and costs.
We currently source approximately half of our wafer requirements annually from third-party wafer fabrication foundries, such as Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company (TSMC), Global Foundries, Vanguard, and others.
In addition, these suppliers often provide manufacturing services to our competitors and therefore periods of increased industry demand may result in capacity constraints.
In certain instances, the third-party supplier is the sole source of highly specialized processing services.
If our suppliers are unable or unwilling to manufacture and deliver components to us on the time schedule and of the quality or quantity that we require or provide us with required manufacturing processes, we may be forced to seek to engage additional or replacement suppliers, which could result in additional expenses and delays in product development or shipment of product to our customers.
If additional or replacement suppliers or manufacturing processes are not available, we may also experience delays in product development or shipment which could, in turn, result in the temporary or permanent loss of customers.
In addition to leveraging an outsourcing model for manufacturing operations, we also rely on our internal manufacturing operations located in the United States, Ireland, the Philippines, Singapore and Malaysia.
A prolonged disruption at, or inability to utilize, one or more of our manufacturing facilities, loss of raw materials or damage to our manufacturing equipment for any reason, including due to natural or man-made disasters, civil unrest or other events outside of our control, such as widespread outbreaks of illness or the failure to maintain our labor force at one or more of these facilities, may disrupt our operations, delay production, shipments and revenue and result in us being unable to timely satisfy customer demand.
If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow, we may not be able to service our debt obligations, including making payments on our outstanding term loans and senior unsecured notes.
•reduce or delay planned capital expenditures or operating expenditures.
Such measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service our debt, which could negatively impact our financial results.
In addition, we may not be able to obtain any such financing, refinancing or complete a sale of assets on economically favorable terms.
Our significant existing indebtedness could also have the effect, among other things, of reducing our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions, reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes or creating competitive disadvantages relative to other companies with lower debt levels.
The markets for semiconductor products are cyclical, and increased production may lead to overcapacity and lower prices, and conversely, we may not be able to satisfy unexpected demand for our products.
The cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry has resulted in periods when demand for our products has increased or decreased rapidly.
The demand for our products is subject to the strength of our four major end markets of Industrial, Communications, Automotive and Consumer.
These capacity expansions by us and other semiconductor manufacturers could also lead to overcapacity in our target markets which could lead to price erosion that would adversely impact our operating results.
Conversely, during periods of rapid increases in demand, our available capacity may not be sufficient to satisfy the demand.
Failures in our products and services or in the products of customers could result in damage to our reputation for reliability and increase our legal or financial exposure to third parties.
Certain of our products and services could also contain security vulnerabilities, defects, bugs and errors, which could also result in significant data losses, security breaches and theft of intellectual property.
We generally warrant our products to our customers for one year from the date title passes from us.
We invest significant resources in the testing of our products; however, if any of our products contain defects, we may be required to incur additional development and remediation costs pursuant to warranty and indemnification provisions in our customer contracts and purchase orders.
These problems may divert our technical and other resources from other product development efforts and could result in claims against us by our customers or others, including liability for costs and expenses associated with product recalls, which may adversely impact our operating results.
We may also be subject to customer indemnity claims.
Those customers may seek indemnification from us under the terms and conditions of our sales contracts with them.
In certain cases, our potential indemnification liability may be significant.
The fabrication of integrated circuits is highly complex and precise, and our manufacturing processes utilize a substantial amount of technology.
Minute impurities, contaminants in the manufacturing environment, difficulties in the fabrication process, defects in the masks used in the wafer manufacturing process, manufacturing equipment failures, wafer breakage or other factors can cause a substantial percentage of wafers to be rejected or numerous dice on each wafer to be nonfunctional.
While we have significant expertise in semiconductor manufacturing, it is possible that some processes could become unstable.
The semiconductor industry is characterized by frequent claims and litigation involving patent and other intellectual property rights.
There can be no assurance that we are adequately insured to protect against all claims and potential liabilities, and we may elect to self-insure with respect to certain matters.
An adverse outcome in litigation or arbitration could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or on our operating results or cash flows in the period in which the dispute is resolved.
If we are unable to recruit or retain our key personnel, our ability to execute our business strategy will be adversely affected.
Our continued success depends to a significant extent upon the recruitment, retention and effective succession of our executive officers and key management and technical personnel, particularly our experienced engineers.
The inability to attract, hire and retain key employees with critical technical skills to achieve our strategy, including as a result of changes to immigration policies, could also have a material adverse effect on our business.
To remain competitive, we may need to invest in or acquire other companies, purchase or license technology from third parties, or enter into other strategic transactions in order to introduce new products or enhance our existing products.
An element of our business strategy involves expansion through the acquisitions of businesses, assets, products or technologies that allow us to complement our existing product offerings, diversify our product portfolio, expand our market coverage, increase our engineering workforce, expand our technical skill sets or enhance our technological capabilities.
Acquisitions, investments and technology licenses are difficult to identify and complete for a number of reasons, including the cost of potential transactions, competition among prospective buyers and licensees, the need for regulatory approvals, and difficulties related to integration efforts.
In addition, investments in private companies are subject to a risk of a partial or total loss of our investment.
Both in the U.S. and abroad, governmental regulation of acquisitions, including antitrust reviews and approvals, has become more complex, increasing the costs and risks of undertaking and consummating significant acquisitions.
We may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms, and the sale of our stock may result in the dilution of our existing shareholders or the issuance of securities with rights that are superior to the rights of our common shareholders.
We rely on supplies, services and manufacturing capacity located in geologically unstable areas, which could affect our ability to produce products.
We, like many companies in the semiconductor industry, rely on supplies, services, internal manufacturing capacity, wafer fabrication foundries and other subcontractors in geologically unstable locations around the world.
tsunamis, flooding or other natural disasters may disrupt local semiconductor-related businesses and adversely affect manufacturing capacity, availability and cost of key raw materials, utilities and equipment, and availability of key services, including transport of our products worldwide.
Our insurance may not adequately cover losses resulting from such disruptions.
•trade policy, trade, travel, export or taxation disputes or restrictions, government sanctions, import or export tariffs or other restrictions imposed by the U.S. government or by the governments of the countries in which we do business, particularly in China;
•costs associated with our foreign defined benefit pension plans.
Many of these risks are present in China.
While we expect to continue to expand our business and operations in China, our success in the Chinese markets may be adversely affected by China’s continuously evolving policies, laws and regulations, including those relating to trade, taxation, import and export tariffs or restrictions, currency controls, antitrust, cybersecurity and data protection, the environment, indigenous innovation and the promotion of a domestic semiconductor industry, and intellectual property rights and enforcement and protection of those rights.
In addition, changes in the political environment, governmental policies, international trade policies and relations, or U.S.-China relations could result in revisions to laws or regulations or their interpretation and enforcement, exposure of our proprietary intellectual property, increased taxation, trade sanctions, the imposition of import duties or tariffs, restrictions on imports or exports, currency revaluations, or retaliatory actions by China in response to U.S. actions, which could have an adverse effect on our business plans and operating results.
At February 2, 2019, our principal source of liquidity was $605.9 million of cash and cash equivalents, of which approximately $231.7 million was held in the United States and the remaining balance was held outside the United States in various foreign subsidiaries.
As we intend to reinvest substantially all of our foreign earnings indefinitely, certain cash held outside the United States may not be available for repatriation as dividends to the United States in the future.
We require a substantial amount of cash in the United States for operating requirements, stock repurchases, cash dividends and acquisitions.
Our operating results are dependent on the performance of independent distributors.
A significant portion of our sales are through independent global and regional distributors that are not under our control.
These independent distributors generally represent product lines offered by several companies and thus could reduce their sales efforts applied to our products or they could terminate their representation of us.
We generally do not require letters of credit from our distributors and are not protected against accounts receivable default or declarations of bankruptcy by these distributors.
Our inability to collect open accounts receivable could adversely affect our operating results.
Termination of a significant distributor or a group of distributors, whether at our initiative or the distributor’s initiative or through consolidation in the distribution industry, could disrupt our current business, and if we are unable to find suitable replacements with the appropriate scale and resources, our operating results could be adversely affected.
Effective November 4, 2018, all distributor sales are recognized upon shipment to the distributor under Accounting Standards Update 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASU 2014-09).
We are now required to estimate the effects of returns and allowances provided to distributors and record revenue at the time of sale to the distributor.
We are subject to environmental, health and safety (EHS) regulations, which could increase our expenses and affect our operating results.
If we fail to comply with government contracting regulations, we could suffer a loss of revenue or incur price adjustments or other penalties.
Some of our revenue is derived from contracts with agencies of the United States government and subcontracts with its prime contractors.
As a United States government contractor or subcontractor, we are subject to federal contracting regulations, including the Federal Acquisition Regulations, which govern the allowability of costs incurred by us in the performance of United States government contracts.
Certain contract pricing is based on estimated direct and indirect costs, which are subject to change.
Additionally, the United States government is entitled after final payment on certain negotiated contracts to examine all of our cost records with respect to such contracts and to seek a downward adjustment to the price of the contract if it determines that we failed to furnish complete, accurate and current cost or pricing data in connection with the negotiation of the price of the contract.
In connection with our United States government business, we are also subject to government audits and to review and approval of our policies, procedures, and internal controls for compliance with procurement regulations and applicable laws.
downward contract price adjustments or refund obligations or could in extreme circumstances be assessed civil and criminal penalties or be debarred or suspended from obtaining future contracts for a specified period of time.
Any such suspension or debarment or other sanction could have an adverse effect on our business.
If we were unable to comply with these requirements, or if personnel critical to our performance of these contracts were unable to obtain or maintain their security clearances, we might be unable to perform these contracts or compete for other projects of this nature, which could adversely affect our revenue.
Our current revolving credit facility, term loans and outstanding debt instruments impose, and future debt instruments to which we may become subject may impose, restrictions that limit our ability to engage in activities that could otherwise benefit our Company, including to undertake certain transactions, to create certain liens on our assets and to incur certain subsidiary indebtedness.
Our ability to comply with these financial restrictions and covenants is dependent on our future performance, which is subject to prevailing economic conditions and other factors, including factors that are beyond our control such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and changes in technology, government regulations and the level of competition.
In addition, our revolving credit facility requires us to maintain compliance with specified financial ratios.
If we breach any of the covenants under our revolving credit facility, the indentures governing our outstanding senior unsecured notes, the term loans or any future debt instruments to which we may become subject and do not obtain appropriate waivers, then, subject to applicable cure periods, our outstanding indebtedness thereunder could be declared immediately due and payable or we may be restricted from further borrowing under our revolving credit facility.
•negative media publicity targeting us or our suppliers, customers or competitors.
The stock market has historically experienced volatility, especially within the semiconductor industry, that often has been unrelated to the performance of particular companies.
Our directors and executive officers periodically sell shares of our common stock in the market, including pursuant to Rule 10b5-1 trading plans.
ITEM 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
