Continuing uncertainty regarding the stability of global credit and financial markets may lead consumers and businesses to postpone spending, which may cause our customers to cancel, decrease or delay their existing and future orders for our products and make it difficult for us to accurately forecast and plan our future business activities. Significant disruption to global credit and financial markets may also adversely affect our ability to access external financing sources on acceptable terms. Financial difficulties experienced by our customers could result in nonpayment or payment delays for previously purchased products, thereby increasing our credit risk exposure. Uncertainty regarding the future stability of the global credit and financial markets could cause the value of the currency in the affected markets to deteriorate, thus reducing the purchasing power of those customers. In addition, financial difficulties experienced by our suppliers, distributors or customers could result in product delays, increased accounts receivable defaults and inventory challenges. If economic conditions deteriorate, we may record additional charges relating to restructuring costs or the impairment of assets and our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.
Our future revenue, gross margins, operating results, net income and earnings per share are difficult to predict and may materially fluctuate.
•a decline in the U.S. government defense budget, changes in spending or budgetary priorities, a prolonged U.S. government shutdown or delays in contract awards;
Our acquisition of Linear Technology Corporation (Linear) and the integration of its business, operations and employees with our own may be more difficult, costly or time consuming than expected, and the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the acquisition may not be fully realized, which could adversely impact our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. 
•servicing the substantial debt that we have incurred in connection with the Acquisition.
We may be unable to adequately protect our proprietary intellectual property rights, which may limit our ability to compete effectively.
There can be no assurance that the claims allowed in our issued patents will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In addition, any of our existing or future patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. As such, any rights granted under these patents may not provide us with adequate protection. We may not be able to obtain foreign patents or pending applications corresponding to our U.S. patents and applications. Even if patents are granted, enforcement may not be available or achieved under the circumstances. If our patents and mask works do not adequately protect our technology, our competitors may be able to offer products similar to ours. Our competitors may also be able to develop similar technology independently or design around our patents.
We generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and strategic partners. We also try to control access to and distribution of our technologies, documentation and other proprietary information. Despite these efforts, internal or external parties may attempt to copy, disclose, obtain or use our products or technology without our authorization. Also, former employees may seek employment with our business partners, customers or competitors, and there can be no assurance that the confidential nature of our proprietary information will be maintained in the course of such future employment.
We rely on information technology systems throughout our company to keep financial records and customer data, process orders, manage inventory, coordinate shipments to customers, maintain confidential and proprietary information, assist in semiconductor engineering and other technical activities and operate other critical functions such as Internet connectivity, network communications and email. Our information technology systems may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to power outages, hardware failures, telecommunication failures, employee malfeasance, user errors, catastrophes or other unforeseen events. We also rely upon external cloud providers for certain infrastructure activities. If we were to experience a prolonged disruption in the information technology systems that involve our internal communications or our interactions with customers or suppliers, it could result in the loss of sales and customers and significant incremental costs, which could adversely affect our business. We may also be subject to security breaches of our information technology systems 
and certain of our products caused by viruses, illegal break-ins or hacking, sabotage, or acts of vandalism by third parties or our employees or contractors. Our security measures or those of our third party service providers may not detect or prevent security breaches, defects, bugs or errors. In addition, we provide our confidential and proprietary information to our strategic partners in certain cases where doing so is necessary to conduct our business. While we employ confidentiality agreements to protect such information, nonetheless those third parties may also be subject to security breaches or otherwise compromise the protection of such information. Security breaches of our information technology systems or those of our partners could result in the misappropriation or unauthorized disclosure of confidential and proprietary information belonging to us or to our employees, partners, customers or suppliers, which could result in our suffering significant financial or reputational damage.
Long-term contracts are not typical for us, and incorrect forecasts or reductions, cancellations or delays in orders for our products could adversely affect our operating results.
Our future success depends upon our ability to execute our business strategy, continue to innovate, improve our existing products, design, develop, produce and market new products, and identify and enter new markets.
We may not be able to compete successfully in markets within the semiconductor industry in the future.
We face intense competition in the semiconductor industry, and we expect this competition to increase in the future, including from companies located outside of the United States. Competition is generally based on innovation, design, quality and reliability of products, product performance, features and functionality, product pricing, availability and capacity, technological service and support, and the availability of integrated system solutions, with the relative importance of these factors varying among products, markets and customers. Many companies have sufficient financial, manufacturing, technical, sales and marketing resources to develop and market products that compete with our products. Some of our competitors may have more advantageous supply or development relationships with our current and potential customers or suppliers. Our 
We rely on third-party suppliers, subcontractors and manufacturers for some industry-standard wafers, manufacturing processes, assembly and test services, and transportation, and we generally cannot control their availability or conditions of supply.
We rely, and plan to continue to rely, on third-party suppliers, assembly and test subcontractors, freight carriers and wafer fabricators (collectively, suppliers) to supply most of our products that can be manufactured using industry-standard processes. This reliance involves several risks, including reduced control over availability, capacity utilization, delivery schedules, manufacturing yields, and costs. We currently source approximately half of our wafer requirements annually from third-party wafer fabrication foundries, such as Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company (TSMC), Global Foundries, Vanguard, and others. In addition, these suppliers often provide manufacturing services to our competitors and therefore periods of increased industry demand may result in capacity constraints. In certain instances, the third-party supplier is the sole source of highly specialized processing services. If our suppliers are unable or unwilling to manufacture and deliver components to us on the time schedule and of the quality or quantity that we require or provide us with required manufacturing processes, we may be forced to seek to engage additional or replacement suppliers, which could result in additional expenses and delays in product development or shipment of product to our customers. If additional or replacement suppliers or manufacturing processes are not available, we may also experience delays in product development or shipment which could, in turn, result in the temporary or permanent loss of customers.
In addition to leveraging an outsourcing model for manufacturing operations, we also rely on our internal manufacturing operations located in the United States, Ireland, the Philippines, Singapore and Malaysia. A prolonged disruption at, or inability to utilize, one or more of our manufacturing facilities, loss of raw materials or damage to our manufacturing equipment for any reason, including due to natural or man-made disasters, civil unrest or other events outside of our control, such as widespread outbreaks of illness or the failure to maintain our labor force at one or more of these facilities, may disrupt our operations, delay production, shipments and revenue and result in us being unable to timely satisfy customer demand. As a result, we could forgo revenue opportunities, potentially lose market share and damage our customer relationships, all of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.
If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow, we may not be able to service our debt obligations, including making payments on our outstanding term loans and senior unsecured notes.
•reduce or delay planned capital expenditures or operating expenditures.
Such measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service our debt, which could negatively impact our financial results. In addition, we may not be able to obtain any such financing, refinancing or complete a sale of assets on economically favorable terms. In the case of financing or refinancing, favorable interest rates will depend on the health of the debt capital markets.
Our significant existing indebtedness could also have the effect, among other things, of reducing our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions, reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes or creating competitive disadvantages relative to other companies with lower debt levels.
The markets for semiconductor products are cyclical, and increased production may lead to overcapacity and lower prices, and conversely, we may not be able to satisfy unexpected demand for our products.
The cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry has resulted in periods when demand for our products has increased or decreased rapidly. The demand for our products is subject to the strength of our four major end markets of Industrial, Communications, Automotive and Consumer. If we expand our operations and workforce too rapidly or procure excessive resources in anticipation of increased demand for our products, and that demand does not materialize at the pace at which we expect, or declines, or if we overbuild inventory in a period of decreased demand, our operating results may be adversely affected as a result of increased operating expenses, reduced margins, underutilization of capacity or asset impairment charges. These capacity expansions by us and other semiconductor manufacturers could also lead to overcapacity in our target markets which could lead to price erosion that would adversely impact our operating results. Conversely, during periods of rapid increases in demand, our available capacity may not be sufficient to satisfy the demand. In addition, we may not be able to expand our workforce and operations in a sufficiently timely manner, procure adequate resources and raw materials, locate suitable third-party suppliers, or respond effectively to changes in demand for our existing products or to demand for new products requested by our customers, and our current or future business could be materially and adversely affected.
The fabrication of integrated circuits is highly complex and precise, and our manufacturing processes utilize a substantial amount of technology. Minute impurities, contaminants in the manufacturing environment, difficulties in the fabrication process, defects in the masks used in the wafer manufacturing process, manufacturing equipment failures, wafer breakage or other factors can cause a substantial percentage of wafers to be rejected or numerous dice on each wafer to be nonfunctional. While we have significant expertise in semiconductor manufacturing, it is possible that some processes could become unstable. This instability could result in manufacturing delays and product shortages, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.
The semiconductor industry is characterized by frequent claims and litigation involving patent and other intellectual property rights. Other companies or individuals have obtained patents covering a variety of semiconductor designs and processes, and we might be required to obtain licenses under some of these patents or be precluded from making and selling infringing products, if those patents are found to be valid and infringed by us. In the event a third party makes a valid 
If we are unable to recruit or retain our key personnel, our ability to execute our business strategy will be adversely affected.
Our continued success depends to a significant extent upon the recruitment, retention and effective succession of our executive officers and key management and technical personnel, particularly our experienced engineers. The competition for these employees is intense. The loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. The inability to attract, hire and retain key employees with critical technical skills to achieve our strategy, including as a result of changes to immigration policies, could also have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, there could be a material adverse effect on our business should the turnover rates for engineers and other key personnel increase significantly or if we are unable to continue to attract, hire and retain qualified personnel. We do not maintain any key person life insurance policy on any of our officers or other employees.
To remain competitive, we may need to invest in or acquire other companies, purchase or license technology from third parties, or enter into other strategic transactions in order to introduce new products or enhance our existing products.
An element of our business strategy involves expansion through the acquisitions of businesses, assets, products or technologies that allow us to complement our existing product offerings, diversify our product portfolio, expand our market coverage, increase our engineering workforce, expand our technical skill sets or enhance our technological capabilities. We may not be able to find businesses that have the technology or resources we need and, if we find such businesses, we may not be able to invest in, purchase or license the technology or resources on commercially favorable terms or at all. Acquisitions, investments and technology licenses are difficult to identify and complete for a number of reasons, including the cost of potential transactions, competition among prospective buyers and licensees, the need for regulatory approvals, and difficulties related to integration efforts. In addition, investments in private companies are subject to a risk of a partial or total loss of our investment. Both in the U.S. and abroad, governmental regulation of acquisitions, including antitrust reviews and approvals, has become more complex, increasing the costs and risks of undertaking and consummating significant acquisitions. In order to finance a potential transaction, we may need to raise additional funds by issuing securities or borrowing money. We may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms, and the sale of our stock may result in the dilution of our existing shareholders or the issuance of securities with rights that are superior to the rights of our common shareholders.
We rely on supplies, services and manufacturing capacity located in geologically unstable areas, which could affect our ability to produce products.
We, like many companies in the semiconductor industry, rely on supplies, services, internal manufacturing capacity, wafer fabrication foundries and other subcontractors in geologically unstable locations around the world. Earthquakes, 
tsunamis, flooding or other natural disasters may disrupt local semiconductor-related businesses and adversely affect manufacturing capacity, availability and cost of key raw materials, utilities and equipment, and availability of key services, including transport of our products worldwide. Our insurance may not adequately cover losses resulting from such disruptions. Any prolonged inability to utilize one of our manufacturing facilities, or those of our subcontractors or third-party wafer fabrication foundries, as a result of fire, flood, natural disaster, unavailability of utilities or otherwise, could result in a temporary or permanent loss of customers for affected products, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.
•trade policy, trade, travel, export or taxation disputes or restrictions, government sanctions, import or export tariffs, changes to export classifications or other restrictions imposed by the U.S. government or by the governments of the countries in which we do business, particularly in China; 
•costs associated with our foreign defined benefit pension plans.
Many of these risks are present in China. While we expect to continue to expand our business and operations in China, our success in the Chinese markets may be adversely affected by China’s continuously evolving policies, laws and regulations, including those relating to trade, taxation, import and export tariffs or restrictions, currency controls, antitrust, cybersecurity and data protection, the environment, indigenous innovation and the promotion of a domestic semiconductor industry, and intellectual property rights and enforcement and protection of those rights. Enforcement of existing laws or agreements may be inconsistent. In addition, changes in the political environment, governmental policies, international trade policies and relations, or U.S.-China relations could result in revisions to laws or regulations or their interpretation and enforcement, exposure of our proprietary intellectual property, increased taxation, trade sanctions, the imposition of import duties or tariffs, restrictions on imports or exports, currency revaluations, or retaliatory actions , which could have an adverse effect on our business plans and operating results. 
At May 4, 2019, our principal source of liquidity was $713.6 million of cash and cash equivalents, of which approximately $267.7 million was held in the United States and the remaining balance was held outside the United States in various foreign subsidiaries. We continue to assert our intent to reinvest substantially all of our foreign earnings indefinitely. 
As we intend to reinvest substantially all of our foreign earnings indefinitely, certain cash held outside the United States may not be available for repatriation as dividends to the United States in the future. We require a substantial amount of cash in the United States for operating requirements, stock repurchases, cash dividends and acquisitions. If we are unable to address our U.S. cash requirements through operations, borrowings under our current revolving credit facility, future debt or equity offerings or other sources of cash obtained at an acceptable cost, it may be necessary for us to consider repatriation of earnings that are indefinitely reinvested, and we may be required to pay additional taxes under current tax laws, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.
Our operating results are dependent on the performance of independent distributors.
A significant portion of our sales are through independent global and regional distributors that are not under our control. Arrow Electronics is currently our sole global distributor. These independent distributors generally represent product lines offered by several companies and thus could reduce their sales efforts applied to our products or they could terminate their representation of us. We generally do not require letters of credit from our distributors and are not protected against accounts receivable default or declarations of bankruptcy by these distributors. Our inability to collect open accounts receivable could adversely affect our operating results. Termination of a significant distributor or a group of distributors, whether at our initiative or the distributor’s initiative or through consolidation in the distribution industry, could disrupt our current business, and if we are unable to find suitable replacements with the appropriate scale and resources, our operating results could be adversely affected. 
Effective November 4, 2018, all distributor sales are recognized upon shipment to the distributor under Accounting Standards Update 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASU 2014-09). We are now required to estimate the effects of returns and allowances provided to distributors and record revenue at the time of sale to the distributor. If our estimates of such credits and rights are materially understated, it could cause subsequent adjustments that negatively impact our revenues and gross profits in a future period.
We are subject to environmental, health and safety (EHS) regulations, which could increase our expenses and affect our operating results.
If we fail to comply with government contracting regulations, we could suffer a loss of revenue or incur price adjustments or other penalties.
Some of our revenue is derived from contracts with agencies of the United States government and subcontracts with its prime contractors. As a United States government contractor or subcontractor, we are subject to federal contracting regulations, including the Federal Acquisition Regulations, which govern the allowability of costs incurred by us in the performance of United States government contracts. Certain contract pricing is based on estimated direct and indirect costs, which are subject to change. Additionally, the United States government is entitled after final payment on certain negotiated contracts to examine all of our cost records with respect to such contracts and to seek a downward adjustment to the price of the contract if it determines that we failed to furnish complete, accurate and current cost or pricing data in connection with the negotiation of the price of the contract.
In connection with our United States government business, we are also subject to government audits and to review and approval of our policies, procedures, and internal controls for compliance with procurement regulations and applicable laws. In certain circumstances, if we do not comply with the terms of a contract or with regulations or statutes, we could be subject to 
downward contract price adjustments or refund obligations or could in extreme circumstances be assessed civil and criminal penalties or be debarred or suspended from obtaining future contracts for a specified period of time. Any such suspension or debarment or other sanction could have an adverse effect on our business.
Under some of our government subcontracts, we are required to maintain secure facilities and to obtain security clearances for personnel involved in performance of the contract, in compliance with applicable federal standards. If we were unable to comply with these requirements, or if personnel critical to our performance of these contracts were unable to obtain or maintain their security clearances, we might be unable to perform these contracts or compete for other projects of this nature, which could adversely affect our revenue.
Restrictions in our revolving credit facility, term loans and outstanding debt instruments may limit our activities.
Our current revolving credit facility, term loans and outstanding debt instruments impose, and future debt instruments to which we may become subject may impose, restrictions that limit our ability to engage in activities that could otherwise benefit our Company, including to undertake certain transactions, to create certain liens on our assets and to incur certain subsidiary indebtedness. Our ability to comply with these financial restrictions and covenants is dependent on our future performance, which is subject to prevailing economic conditions and other factors, including factors that are beyond our control such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and changes in technology, government regulations and the level of competition. In addition, our revolving credit facility requires us to maintain compliance with specified financial ratios. If we breach any of the covenants under our revolving credit facility, the indentures governing our outstanding senior unsecured notes, the term loans or any future debt instruments to which we may become subject and do not obtain appropriate waivers, then, subject to applicable cure periods, our outstanding indebtedness thereunder could be declared immediately due and payable or we may be restricted from further borrowing under our revolving credit facility.
•U.S. and foreign government actions, including with respect to trade, travel, export and taxation;
•negative media publicity targeting us or our suppliers, customers or competitors.
ITEM 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
