fls.txt
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains statements that are not historical in nature, are predictive in nature, or that depend upon or refer to future events or conditions or otherwise contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


item1.txt
However, we believe that the disclosures herein are adequate to ensure the information presented is not misleading.
Impacts of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 The comparability of our operating results in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019 compared to the corresponding prior year periods was impacted by the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the Tax Act), which was effective for us starting in our third quarter of fiscal 2018.
The net expense related to the enactment of the Tax Act has been accounted for during the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018 based on provisional estimates pursuant to SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
License support contracts provide customers with rights to unspecified software product upgrades, maintenance releases and patches released during the term of the support period and include internet access to technical content, as well as internet and telephone access to technical support personnel.
Substantially all of our customers renew their license support contracts annually.
Cloud services revenues include revenues from Oracle Cloud Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) and Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS) offerings (collectively, Oracle Cloud Services), which deliver applications and infrastructure technologies, respectively, via cloud-based deployment models that we develop functionality for, provide unspecified updates and enhancements for, host, manage and support and that customers access by entering into a subscription agreement with us for a stated period.
Revenues from the sale of hardware products represent amounts earned primarily from the sale of our Oracle Engineered Systems, computer servers, storage, and industry-specific hardware.
Hardware support contracts are generally priced as a percentage of the net hardware products fees.
We offer these advanced customer support services to Oracle customers to enable increased performance and higher availability of their products and services.
Education services include instructor-led, media-based and internet-based training in the use of our cloud, software and hardware products.
We record an unbilled receivable, which is included within accounts receivable on our condensed consolidated balance sheets, when revenue is recognized prior to invoicing.
Our standard payment terms are generally net 30 days but may vary.
Invoices for license support and hardware support contracts are generally invoiced annually in advance.
The transaction price for a contract that is financed through our financing division is adjusted to reflect the time value of money and interest revenue is recorded as a component of non-operating income, net within our condensed consolidated statements of operations based on market rates in the country in which the transaction is being financed.
We recognize revenue ratably because the customer receives and consumes the benefits of the cloud services throughout the contract period.
Revenues from usage-based royalty arrangements for distinct cloud licenses and on-premise licenses are recognized at the point in time when the software end user usage occurs.
For usage-based royalty arrangements with a fixed minimum guarantee amount, the minimum amount is generally recognized upfront when the software is made available to the royalty customer.


item2.txt
We market and sell our offerings globally to businesses of many sizes, government agencies, educational institutions and resellers with a worldwide sales force positioned to offer the combinations that best meet customer needs.
Revenues from usage-based royalty arrangements for distinct cloud licenses and on-premise licenses are recognized at the point in time when the software end user usage occurs.
The timing of a few large license transactions can substantially affect our quarterly license revenues due to the point in time revenue recognition of license transactions, which is different than the typical revenue recognition pattern for our cloud services and license support revenues in which revenues are generally recognized ratably over the contractual terms.
Cloud license and on-premise license customers have the option to purchase license support contracts, as described above.
Providing choice and flexibility to our customers as to when and how they deploy our applications and infrastructure technologies are important elements of our corporate strategy.
In recent periods, customer demand has increased for our Oracle Cloud Services.
We expect these trends to continue.
Our cloud and license business’ revenues growth is affected by the strength of general economic and business conditions; governmental budgetary constraints; the strategy for and competitive position of our offerings; our acquisitions; the continued renewal of our cloud services and license support customer contracts by the customer contract base; substantially all customers continuing to purchase license support contracts in connection with their license purchases; the pricing of license support contracts sold in connection with the sales of licenses; the pricing, amount and volume of licenses and cloud services sold; and foreign currency rate fluctuations.
contributions from our acquisitions.
Our cloud and license business’ margin has historically trended upward over the course of the four quarters within a particular fiscal year due to the historical upward trend of our cloud license and on-premise license revenues over those quarterly periods and because the majority of our costs for this business are generally fixed in the short term.


item3.txt



part2.txt
The material set forth in Note 9 (pertaining to information regarding contingencies related to our income taxes) and Note 12 (pertaining to information regarding legal contingencies) of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q is incorporated herein by reference.


