fls.txt
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains statements that are not historical in nature, are predictive in nature, or that depend upon or refer to future events or conditions or otherwise contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


item1.txt
However, we believe that the disclosures herein are adequate to ensure the information presented is not misleading.
We determine if an arrangement is a lease at its inception.
We generally use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at the lease commencement date in determining the present value of future payments, because the implicit rate of the lease is generally not known.
We have lease agreements with lease and non-lease components, and in such cases, we generally account for the components as a single lease component.
At November 30, 2019, ROU assets of $1.9 billion related to our operating leases are included in other non-current assets; and operating lease liabilities of $584 million are included in other current liabilities, and $1.4 billion are included in other non-current liabilities in our condensed consolidated balance sheets.
Cash paid for amounts included in the measurement of operating lease liabilities was $156 million and $304 million for three and six months ended November 30, 2019, respectively.
As of November 30, 2019, the weighted average remaining lease term for operating leases was approximately five years and the weighted average discount rate used for calculating operating lease obligations was 3.2%.
Trade receivables, net of allowance for doubtful accounts, and deferred revenues are reported net of related uncollected deferred revenues in our condensed consolidated balance sheets as of November 30, 2019 and May 31, 2019.
Revenues recognized from performance obligations satisfied in prior periods and impairment losses recognized on our receivables were immaterial in each of the three and six months ended November 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
We offer certain of our customers the option to acquire our software products, hardware products and services offerings through separate long-term payment contracts.
ASC 820 defines fair value as the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
Amounts also include any changes in intangible asset balances for the periods presented that resulted from foreign currency translations.
Represents weighted-average useful lives (in years) of intangible assets acquired during fiscal 2020.
Pursuant to our business combinations accounting policy, we recorded goodwill adjustments for the effects on goodwill of changes to net assets acquired during the period that such a change is identified, provided that any such change is within the measurement period (up to one year from the date of the acquisition).
In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019, our management supplemented the 2019 Restructuring Plan to reflect additional actions that we expect to take.


item2.txt
These models include on‑premise deployments, cloud‑based deployments, and hybrid deployments (an approach that combines both on-premise and cloud‑based deployment) such as our Oracle Cloud at Customer offering (an instance of Oracle Cloud in a customer’s own data center).
Accordingly, we offer choice and flexibility to our customers and facilitate the product, service and deployment combinations that best suit our customers’ needs.
Through our worldwide sales force and Oracle Partner Network, we sell to customers all over the world including businesses of many sizes, government agencies, educational institutions and resellers.
cloud services revenues, which provide customers access to Oracle Cloud applications and infrastructure technologies via cloud-based deployment models that Oracle develops, provides unspecified updates and enhancements for, hosts, manages and supports and that customers access by entering into a subscription agreement with us for a stated period.
Cloud license and on-premise license revenues include revenues from the licensing of our software products including Oracle Applications, Oracle Database, Oracle Middleware and Java, among others, which our customers deploy within cloud‑based, on‑premise and other IT environments.
Our cloud license and on‑premise license transactions are generally perpetual in nature and are generally recognized up front at the point in time when the software is made available to the customer to download and use.
Revenues from usage‑based royalty arrangements for distinct cloud licenses and on-premise licenses are recognized at the point in time when the software end user usage occurs.
Cloud license and on-premise license customers have the option to purchase and renew license support contracts, as described above.
To address customer demand and enable customer choice, we have introduced certain programs for customers to pivot their applications and infrastructure licenses and the related license support to the Oracle Cloud for new deployments and to migrate to and expand with the Oracle Cloud for their existing workloads.
We expect these trends to continue.
Our cloud and license business’ revenue growth is affected by many factors, including the strength of general economic and business conditions; governmental budgetary constraints; the strategy for and competitive position of our offerings; the continued renewal of our cloud services and license support customer contracts by the customer contract base; substantially all customers continuing to purchase license support contracts in connection with their license purchases; the pricing of license support contracts sold in connection with the sales of licenses; the pricing, amounts and volumes of licenses and cloud services sold; and foreign currency rate fluctuations.
Our cloud and license business’ margin has historically trended upward over the course of the four quarters within a particular fiscal year due to the historical upward trend of our cloud and license business’ revenues over those quarterly periods and because the majority of our costs for this business are generally fixed in the short term.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
The material set forth in Note 9 (pertaining to information regarding contingencies related to our income taxes) and Note 12 (pertaining to information regarding legal contingencies) of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q is incorporated herein by reference.


