fls.txt
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains statements that are not historical in nature, are predictive in nature, or that depend upon or refer to future events or conditions or otherwise contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


item1.txt
However, we believe that the disclosures herein are adequate to ensure the information presented is not misleading.
retrospective basis through a cumulative-effect adjustment that resulted in a $110 million decrease in prepaid assets with the corresponding offset to retained earnings.
The net expense related to the enactment of the Tax Act has been accounted for during the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2019 based on provisional estimates pursuant to SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
License support contracts provide customers with rights to unspecified software product upgrades, maintenance releases and patches released during the term of the support period and include internet access to technical content, as well as internet and telephone access to technical support personnel.
Cloud services revenues include revenues from Oracle Cloud Software-as-a-Service (SaaS), Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS) and Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS) offerings (collectively, Oracle Cloud Services), which deliver applications, platform and infrastructure technologies, respectively, via cloud-based deployment models that we develop functionality for, provide unspecified updates and enhancements for, host, manage and support and that customers access by entering into a subscription agreement with us for a stated period.
Cloud license and on-premise license revenues primarily represent amounts earned from granting customers licenses to use our database, middleware, application and industry-specific software products which our customers use for cloud-based, on-premise and other IT environments.
Revenues from the sale of hardware products represent amounts earned primarily from the sale of our Oracle Engineered Systems, computer servers, storage, and industry-specific hardware.
Hardware support contracts are generally priced as a percentage of the net hardware products fees.
We offer these advanced customer support services to Oracle customers to enable increased performance and higher availability of their products and services.
recognition of revenues when, or as, the contractual performance obligations are satisfied.
We record an unbilled receivable, which is included within accounts receivable on our condensed consolidated balance sheets, when revenue is recognized prior to invoicing.
Our standard payment terms are generally net 30 days but may vary.
Invoices for license support and hardware support contracts are generally invoiced annually in advance.
Our arrangements generally do not include a general right of return relative to the delivered products or services.
We recognize revenue ratably because the customer receives and consumes the benefits of the cloud services throughout the contract period.
For usage-based royalty arrangements with a fixed minimum guarantee amount, the minimum amount is generally recognized upfront when the software is made available to the royalty customer.
Revenues for fixed price services are generally recognized over time applying input methods to estimate progress to completion.


item2.txt
We market and sell our offerings globally to businesses of many sizes, government agencies, educational institutions and resellers with a worldwide sales force positioned to offer the combinations that best meet customer needs.
Our cloud and license line of business, which represented 82% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis, markets, sells and delivers a broad spectrum of applications, platform and infrastructure technologies through our cloud and license offerings.
cloud services revenues, which includes revenues from Oracle Cloud Software-as-a-Service (SaaS), Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS) and Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS) offerings (collectively, Oracle Cloud Services), which provide customers access to applications, platform and infrastructure technologies via cloud-based deployment models that Oracle develops, provides unspecified updates and enhancements for, hosts, manages and supports and that customers access by entering into a subscription agreement with us for a stated period.
Revenues from usage-based royalty arrangements for distinct cloud licenses and on-premise licenses are recognized at the point in time when the software end user usage occurs.
The timing of a few large license transactions can substantially affect our quarterly license revenues, which is different than the typical revenue recognition pattern for our cloud services and license support revenues in which revenues are generally recognized ratably over their contractual terms.
Cloud license and on-premise license customers have the option to purchase license support contracts, as described above.
To address customer demand and enable customer choice, we have introduced certain programs for customers to pivot their applications, platform and infrastructure licenses and license support to the Oracle Cloud for new deployments and to migrate to and expand with the Oracle Cloud for their existing workloads.
We expect these trends to continue.
Our cloud and license business’ revenues growth is affected by the strength of general economic and business conditions; governmental budgetary constraints; the strategy for and competitive position of our offerings; our acquisitions; the continued renewal of our cloud services and license support customer contracts by the customer contract base; substantially all customers continuing to purchase license support contracts in connection with their license purchases; the pricing of license support contracts sold in connection with the sales of licenses; the pricing, amount and volume of licenses and cloud services sold; and foreign currency rate fluctuations.
Our cloud and license business’ margin has historically trended upward over the course of the four quarters within a particular fiscal year due to the historical upward trend of our cloud license and on-premise license revenues over those quarterly periods and because the majority of our costs for this business are generally fixed in the short term.
and services and to develop new hardware products and services.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 1A.


