fls.txt
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains statements that are not historical in nature, are predictive in nature, or that depend upon or refer to future events or conditions or otherwise contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


item1.txt
We believe that all necessary adjustments, which consisted only of normal recurring items, have been included in the accompanying financial statements to present fairly the results of the interim periods.
We determine if an arrangement is a lease at its inception.
We generally use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at the lease commencement date in determining the present value of future payments, because the implicit rate of the lease is generally not known.
We have lease agreements with lease and non-lease components, and in such cases, we generally account for the components as a single lease component.
At August 31, 2019, ROU assets of $2.0 billion related to our operating leases are included in other non-current assets; and operating lease liabilities of $587 million are included in other current liabilities; and $1.5 billion are included in other non-current liabilities in our condensed consolidated balance sheets.
Cash flow movements related to our lease activities are included in prepaid expenses and other assets and accounts payables and other liabilities as presented in net cash provided by operating activities in our condensed consolidated statement of cash flows for the three months ended August 31, 2019.
As of August 31, 2019, the weighted average remaining lease term for operating leases was approximately five years, and the weighted average discount rate for operating leases was 3.1%.
We offer certain of our customers the option to acquire our software products, hardware products and services offerings through separate long-term payment contracts.
We record the transfers of amounts due from customers to financial institutions as sales of financing receivables because we are considered to have surrendered control of these financing receivables.
Restricted cash that was included within cash and cash equivalents as presented within our condensed consolidated balance sheets as of August 31, 2019 and May 31, 2019 and our condensed consolidated statements of cash flows for the three months ended August 31, 2019 and 2018 was nominal.
Acquisition related and other expenses primarily consist of personnel related costs for transitional and certain other employees, integration related professional services, certain business combination adjustments including adjustments after the measurement period has ended and certain other operating items, net.
ASC 820 defines fair value as the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
Amounts also include any changes in goodwill balances for the period presented that resulted from foreign currency translations.
In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019, our management supplemented the 2019 Restructuring Plan to reflect additional actions that we expect to take.
Restructuring costs recorded for individual line items primarily related to employee severance costs.


item2.txt
These models include on-premise deployments, cloud-based deployments, and hybrid deployments (an approach that combines both on-premise and cloud-based deployment) such as our Oracle Cloud at Customer offering (an instance of Oracle Cloud in a customer’s own data center).
Accordingly, we offer choice and flexibility to our customers and facilitate the product, service and deployment combinations that best suit our customers’ needs.
Through our worldwide sales force and Oracle Partner Network, we sell to customers all over the world including businesses of many sizes, government agencies, educational institutions and resellers.
cloud services revenues, which provide customers access to Oracle Cloud applications and infrastructure technologies via cloud-based deployment models that Oracle develops, provides unspecified updates and enhancements for, hosts, manages and supports and that customers access by entering into a subscription agreement with us for a stated period.
Cloud license and on-premise license revenues include revenues from the licensing of our software products including Oracle Applications, Oracle Database, Oracle Middleware and Java, among others, which our customers deploy within cloud-based, on-premise and other IT environments.
Revenues from usage-based royalty arrangements for distinct cloud licenses and on-premise licenses are recognized at the point in time when the software end user usage occurs.
The timing of a few large license transactions can substantially affect our quarterly license revenues due to the point in time nature of revenue recognition for license transactions, which is different than the typical revenue recognition pattern for our cloud services and license support revenues in which revenues are generally recognized ratably over the contractual terms.
Cloud license and on-premise license customers have the option to purchase and renew license support contracts, as described above.
Our cloud and license business’ revenue growth is affected by many factors, including the strength of general economic and business conditions; governmental budgetary constraints; the strategy for and competitive position of our offerings; our acquisitions; the continued renewal of our cloud services and license support customer contracts by the customer contract base; substantially all customers continuing to purchase license support contracts in connection with their license purchases; the pricing of license support contracts sold in connection with the sales of licenses; the pricing, amounts and volumes of licenses and cloud services sold; and foreign currency rate fluctuations.
Our cloud and license business’ margin has historically trended upward over the course of the four quarters within a particular fiscal year due to the historical upward trend of our cloud and license business’ revenues over those quarterly periods and because the majority of our costs for this business are generally fixed in the short term.
Our hardware business, which represented 9% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis, provides a broad selection of hardware products and hardware-related software products including Oracle Engineered Systems, servers, storage, industry-specific hardware, operating systems, virtualization, management and other hardware related software, and related hardware support.
Each hardware product and its related software, such as an operating system or firmware, are highly interdependent and interrelated and are accounted for as a combined performance obligation.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
The material set forth in Note 9 (pertaining to information regarding contingencies related to our income taxes) and Note 12 (pertaining to information regarding legal contingencies) of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q is incorporated herein by reference.


