These unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017.
As a result of the new guidance, we now recognize excess tax benefits or deficiencies in the period in which the award vests.
There have been no other material changes in our significant accounting policies as of and for the nine months ended December 29, 2017, as compared to the significant accounting policies described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017.
Our Consumer Digital Safety segment focuses on providing a comprehensive Digital Safety solution to protect information, devices, networks and the identities of consumers.
This solution includes our Norton-branded services, which provide multi-layer security across major desktop and mobile operating systems, public Wi-Fi connections, and home networks, to defend against increasingly complex online threats to individuals, families and small businesses, and our LifeLock-branded identity protection services.
With the addition of LifeLock-branded identity protection services, we are providing a comprehensive digital safety solution designed to protect information across devices, customer identities and the connected home and family and accelerating our leadership in Consumer Digital Safety to protect all aspects of consumers’ digital lives.
Our Chief Operating Decision Makers (“CODM”), comprised of our Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”), use our operating segment financial information to evaluate segment performance and to allocate resources.
Diluted net income per share also includes the incremental effect of dilutive potentially issuable common shares outstanding during the period using the treasury stock method.
Under the treasury stock method, our Convertible Senior Notes will generally have a dilutive impact on net income per share when our average stock price for the period exceeds approximately $16.77 per share for the 2.5% Convertible Senior Notes and $20.41 per share for the 2.0% Convertible Senior Notes.The discussion below contains forward-looking statements, which are subject to safe harbors under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”) and the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).
We operate our business on a global civilian cyber intelligence threat network and track a vast number of threats across the Internet from hundreds of millions of mobile devices, endpoints, and servers across the globe.
Our enterprise security strategy is to deliver an Integrated Cyber Defense platform that allows Symantec products to share threat intelligence and improve security outcomes for customers across all control points.
On October 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our website security (“WSS”) and public key infrastructure (“PKI”) solutions to DigiCert Parent Inc. (“DigiCert”) for an aggregate consideration of $1.1 billion, consisting of approximately $960 million in cash and shares of common stock representing an approximate 28% interest in the outstanding common stock of DigiCert valued at $160 million as of the transaction date.
Our Consumer Digital Safety segment focuses on providing a comprehensive Digital Safety solution to protect information, devices, networks and the identities of consumers.
With the addition of LifeLock-branded identity protection services, we are providing a comprehensive digital safety solution designed to protect information across devices, customer identities and the connected home and family and accelerating our leadership in Consumer Digital Safety to protect all aspects of consumers’ digital lives.
Our percentage of revenues from the Americas for the three and nine months ended December 29, 2017 increased compared to prior year periods primarily as a result of LifeLock sales which are entirely U.S.-based.
As a result, we expect revenue to continue to be affected by foreign currency exchange rates as compared to the U.S. dollar.
We are unable to predict the extent to which revenue in future periods will be impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates.