Financial Statements.
As a result, Leidos increased its controlling ownership in MSA from 47% to 88%.
The Company consolidates the financial results for MSA into its unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.
The consolidated balances of the Company’s VIE are not material to the Company’s unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for the periods presented.
Certain disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules.
These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on February 23, 2018.
Certain amounts in the prior year financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
In applying the revenue principles, an entity is required to identify the contract(s) with a customer, identify the performance obligations, determine the transaction price, allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations and recognize revenue when the performance obligation is satisfied (i.e., either over time or point in time).
Effective December 30, 2017 (the beginning of fiscal 2018), the Company adopted the requirements of ASC 606 using the modified retrospective method.
As a result of the adoption the Company recorded a $1 million decrease to its beginning accumulated deficit as the cumulative impact of adoption of the new revenue standard.
The primary impact was on certain units-of-delivery contracts, as the Company previously recognized revenue at a point in time when the customer accepted delivery of the product or service.
Under ASC 606, revenues on certain units-of-delivery contracts are now recognized using an over-time model.During the three and nine months ended September 28, 2018, we generated approximately 85% of our total revenues from contracts with the U.S. government.
Sales to customers in international markets represented approximately 9% of total revenues for both the three and nine months ended September 28, 2018.
We incurred integration costs of $4 million and $26 million during the three and nine months ended September 28, 2018, respectively, and $21 million and $55 million during the three and nine months ended September 29, 2017, respectively.
The increase in revenues in constant currency(1) for the three months ended September 28, 2018, was 3.2%, as compared to an actual increase in revenues of 2.9%.
The decrease in revenues in constant currency for the nine months ended September 28, 2018, was 1.6%, as compared to an actual decrease in revenues of 1.4%.Item 1.