Financial Statements.
Leidos Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Leidos") is a holding company whose direct 100%-owned subsidiaries and principal operating companies are Leidos, Inc. and Leidos Innovations Corporation ("Leidos Innovations").
Leidos is a FORTUNE 500® science, engineering and information technology company that provides services and solutions in the defense, intelligence, civil and health markets.
As a result, Leidos increased its controlling ownership in MSA from 47% to 88% effective January 26, 2018.
The Company has consolidated the financial results for MSA into its unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.
The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements also include the balances of all voting interest entities in which Leidos has a controlling voting interest (“subsidiaries”) and a variable interest entity ("VIE") in which Leidos is the primary beneficiary.
The consolidated balances of the Company’s VIE are not material to the Company’s unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for the periods presented.
Certain amounts in the prior year financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
In applying the revenue principles, an entity is required to identify the contract(s) with a customer, identify the performance obligations, determine the transaction price, allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations and recognize revenue when the performance obligation is satisfied (i.e., either over time or point in time).
Effective December 30, 2017 (beginning of fiscal year 2018), the Company adopted the requirements of ASC 606 using the modified retrospective method.
The guidance was not applied to contracts that were complete at December 30, 2017, and the comparative information for the prior fiscal year has not been retrospectively adjusted.
The Company recorded a $1 million decrease to its beginning accumulated deficit as the cumulative impact of adoption of the new revenue standard.U.S. Government Markets During the quarter ended March 30, 2018, we generated approximately 85% of our total revenues from contracts with the U.S. government.
Sales to customers in international markets represented approximately 10% of total revenues for the quarter ended March 30, 2018.
We incurred integration costs of $11 million and $18 million during the three months ended March 30, 2018, and March 31, 2017, respectively, and expect to incur additional integration costs in connection with the Transactions through fiscal 2020.
The decrease in revenues in constant currency(1) for the three months ended March 30, 2018, was 5.7% as compared to an actual decrease in revenues of 5.3%.
The decrease in revenues for the three months ended March 30, 2018, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017, was primarily attributable to timing of revenue recognition on certain contracts, the completion of certain contracts and net volume decreases, partially offset by revenues from new awards.Controls and Procedures.Item 1.