Item 1. Legal Proceedings.  
The information set forth above under Note 11 contained in the "Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements" of this Form 10-Q is incorporated herein by reference. 
Item 1A. Risk Factors. 
Cohu acquired Xcerra Corporation (“Xcerra”) on October 1, 2018, at which time Xcerra became a wholly owned subsidiary of Cohu (the “Merger”). Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits and synergies of the Merger will depend, to a large extent, on our ability to integrate Xcerra, which is expected to be a complex, costly and time-consuming process. The integration process may disrupt our business and, if implemented ineffectively or delayed, could restrict the realization of the full expected benefits. The failure to meet the challenges involved in the integration process and to realize the anticipated benefits of the Merger could cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, our operations and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 
difficulties entering new markets or manufacturing in new geographies where Cohu has no or limited direct prior experience;    
successfully managing relationships with Cohu and Xcerra’s combined supplier and customer base;    
coordinating and integrating independent research and development and engineering teams across technologies and product platforms to enhance product development while reducing costs;    
coordinating sales and marketing efforts to effectively position the combined company’s capabilities and the direction of product development;    
difficulties and potential loss of sales in transitioning customers from certain Xcerra products that are being discontinued and to Cohu products;    
product manufacturing disruptions and delays as we consolidate certain manufacturing sites;    
difficulties and errors that may occur in integrating disparate accounting staffs, processes and systems;    
the increased scale and complexity of Cohu’s operations resulting from the Merger;    
Cohu’s ability to achieve the targeted cost synergies within the expected time frame, and significant costs of integration and restructuring;    
retaining key employees of Cohu and Xcerra;    
obligations that Cohu will have to counterparties of Xcerra that arise as a result of the change in control of Xcerra;    
legal impediments, delays and significant costs to reduce headcounts in various geographies;    
diversion of management’s attention to integration matters.    
Table of Contents  
Cohu’s ability to utilize Xcerra’s net operating loss and credit carryforwards is severely limited. 
As a result of the Merger an ownership change has occurred at Xcerra and as a consequence Cohu’s ability to utilize Xcerra’s net operating loss and credit carryforwards, that were already partially limited due to a prior acquisition, will be subject to annual limitations as provided for in Internal Revenue Code Sections 382 and 383. These annual limitations will result in the inability of Cohu to utilize a substantial portion of these carryforwards. 
Uncertainties underlie Cohu’s expectation that, relative to Cohu on a stand-alone basis, the Merger will be accretive to Cohu’s earnings per share. 
Cohu believes that, relative to Cohu on a stand-alone basis, the Merger will be accretive to Cohu’s earnings per share upon completion of the ongoing restructuring and integration. However, Cohu cannot give any assurance that the Merger will actually be accretive to Cohu’s earnings per share. In addition to the uncertainties that underlie any financial forecast, Cohu will account for the Merger as an acquisition under Accounting Standards Codification Topic 805, “Business Combinations,” or “ASC 805”. The total cost of the Merger will be allocated to the underlying identifiable net tangible and intangible assets and liabilities based on their respective estimated fair values. Until these allocations are completed, Cohu can only estimate the allocation of the acquisition price to the net assets acquired and the effect of the allocation on future results. That estimate could materially change. 
The Merger was financed in part by using Cohu’s and Xcerra’s cash on hand and the incurrence of indebtedness. In connection with the Merger, Cohu entered into a term loan facility, with an aggregate principal amount of $350.0 million (the “Debt Financing” or “Credit Agreement”). Cohu used $160.5 million of Cohu’s and Xcerra’s cash on hand to complete the Merger. Cohu’s (including Xcerra’s) cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments as of September 28, 2019 were approximately $145.7 million. The use of cash on hand and indebtedness to finance the acquisition has reduced Cohu’s liquidity and could cause Cohu to place more reliance on cash generated from operations to pay principal and interest on Cohu’s debt, thereby reducing the availability of Cohu’s cash flow for working capital, dividend and capital expenditure needs or to pursue other potential strategic plans. 
Table of Contents  
incur or assume liens or additional debt or provide guarantees in respect of obligations of other persons;    
issue redeemable stock and preferred stock;    
pay cash dividends or make distributions on capital stock, repurchase, redeem or make payments on capital stock;    
enter into agreements that restrict distributions from our subsidiaries;    
create or permit restrictions on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions to us or to guarantee our debt, limit our or any of our subsidiaries’ ability to create liens, or that require the grant of a lien to secure an obligation if a lien is granted to secure another obligation;    
sell assets and capital stock of our subsidiaries;    
enter into certain transactions with affiliates;    
sell, transfer, license, lease or dispose of our or our subsidiaries’ assets; and    
dissolve, liquidate, consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all the assets of us and our subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to, another person.    
finance our operations;    
make needed capital expenditures;    
Cohu has total consolidated long-term debt of $345 and because of such high debt levels we may not be able to service its debt obligations in accordance with their terms; the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act severely limits the deductibility of interest expense. 
Cohu’s ability to meet its expense and debt service obligations contained in the Debt Financing agreements will depend on Cohu’s future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors, including potential changes in industry conditions, industry supply and demand balance, customer preferences, the success of Cohu’s products and pressure from competitors. In addition, Cohu is subject to interest rate risks, and continuing increases in interest rates will increase Cohu’s debt service obligations. Should combined Cohu and Xcerra revenues decline after the Merger (as compared to last year), as they did year-to-date 2019 and are again forecasted to do so in fourth quarter 2019, Cohu may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to pay its debt service obligations when due. If Cohu is unable to meet its debt service obligations after the Merger or should Cohu fail to comply with the covenants contained in the agreements governing its indebtedness, Cohu may be required to refinance all or part of its debt, sell important strategic assets at unfavorable prices, incur additional indebtedness or issue Cohu Common Stock or other equity securities. Cohu may not be able to, at any given time, refinance its debt, sell assets, incur additional indebtedness or issue equity securities on terms acceptable to Cohu, in amounts sufficient to meet Cohu’s needs or at all. If Cohu is able to raise additional funds through the issuance of equity securities, such issuance would also result in dilution to Cohu’s stockholders. Cohu’s inability to service its debt obligations or refinance its debt could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial conditions or operating results after the Merger. In addition, Cohu’s debt obligations may limit its ability to make required investments in capacity, technology or other areas of its business, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial conditions or operating results. Furthermore, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act limits the deductibility of interest expense in a given year to 30% of adjusted taxable income, as defined. This resulted in the inability of Cohu to utilize a substantial portion of its interest expense deductions in 2018 and may impact our ability to utilize future deductions. However, the Act permits indefinite carryforward of any disallowed business interest, subject to Internal Revenue Code section 382 limitations on utilization. 
Table of Contents  
The Merger was financed in part by the issuance of additional shares of our common stock to shareholders of Xcerra, comprised approximately 11.8 million shares of common stock, or approximately 29% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock immediately after completing the Merger. These issuances of additional shares of our common stock have diluted shareholders’ ownership interest in our company, and shareholders now have a proportionately reduced ownership and voting interest in our company as a result of completion of the Merger. 
Cohu has accounted for the acquisition of Xcerra using the purchase method of accounting. A portion of the purchase price for this business was allocated to identifiable tangible and intangible assets and assumed liabilities based on estimated fair values at the date of consummation of the merger. As a result of the Merger, 48.4% of Cohu’s total assets are comprised of goodwill and other intangibles, of which approximately $235.9 million is allocated to goodwill. In accordance with ASC 350, Intangibles — Goodwill and Other, goodwill and certain other intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortized but are reviewed at least annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications of impairment. All other intangible assets are subject to periodic amortization. Cohu evaluates the remaining useful lives of other intangibles each quarter to determine whether events and circumstances warrant a revision to the remaining period of amortization. If we are unable to realize the anticipated benefits of the Merger, when Cohu performs future impairment tests, it is possible that the carrying value of goodwill or other intangible assets could exceed their implied fair value and therefore would require adjustment. Such adjustment would result in a charge to operating income in that period. Once adjusted, there can be no assurance that there will not be further adjustments for impairment in future periods. 
We are required by the Securities and Exchange Commission to establish and maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting that provides reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. We are likewise required, on a quarterly basis, to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal controls and to disclose any changes and material weaknesses in those internal controls. 
Cohu may discover liabilities or deficiencies associated with Xcerra that were not identified in advance.    
Table of Contents  
Cohu cannot provide assurance that it will be able to continue paying dividends at the current rate or at all.    
as a result of the Merger and the issuance of shares of Cohu Common Stock in connection with the Merger, the total amount of cash required for Cohu to pay dividends at its current rate has increased;    
Cohu’s credit agreement restricts payments of dividends under certain circumstances;    
Cohu may not have enough cash to pay such dividends due to Cohu’s operational cash requirements, capital spending plans, cash flow or financial position;    
rising interest rates, which increase Cohu’s debt service obligations;    
Cohu may desire to retain cash to maintain or improve its credit ratings;    
difficulties and increased costs in connection with integration of the personnel, operations, technologies and products of acquired businesses;    
Cohu may reduce or eliminate its dividend in order to pay down debt;    
decisions on whether, when and in which amounts to make any future distributions will remain at all times entirely at the discretion of the Cohu Board, which reserves the right to change Cohu’s dividend practices at any time with no prior notice; and    
the amount of dividends that Cohu’s subsidiaries may distribute to Cohu may be subject to restrictions imposed by state or foreign law, restrictions that may be imposed by state or foreign regulators, and restrictions imposed by the terms of any current or future indebtedness that these subsidiaries may incur.    
The Xcerra division has relied on Spirox Corporation (“Spirox”) as its primary distribution channel for sales and service in China and Taiwan for its Semiconductor Test Solutions products, a region that represents a material portion of Xcerra’s revenues. Spirox has had direct contact with Xcerra’s customers, and Spirox has been obligated to satisfy all installation and service obligations for the Semiconductor Test Solutions products. After a thorough review of this arrangement, on October 12, 2018, we notified Spirox of our intention to terminate the Spirox distribution agreement, and subsequently negotiated an accelerated wind-down and termination date of March 12, 2019. Our business and financial performance within the China and Taiwan region may be negatively impacted if cooperation with Spirox during the transition fails, if Cohu is delayed and otherwise fails to timely and adequately staff and fund sales and service resources in the region to replace those resources that have previously been provided by Spirox, or if customers delay or fail, for any reason, to transition to direct sales with us. 
difficulties and increased costs in connection with integration of the personnel, operations, technologies and products of acquired businesses;    
increasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our business;    
the cost and risk of having to potentially develop new and unfamiliar sales channels for acquired businesses;    
diversion of management’s attention from other operational matters;    
the potential loss of key employees, customers or suppliers of Cohu or acquired businesses;    
lack of synergy, or the inability to realize expected synergies, resulting from the acquisition;    
potential unknown liabilities associated with the acquired businesses;    
failure to commercialize purchased technology;    
the impairment of acquired intangible assets and goodwill that could result in significant charges to operating results in future periods; and    
challenges caused by distance, language and cultural differences.    
We may decide to finance future acquisitions and investments through a combination of borrowings, proceeds from equity or debt offerings and the use of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. If we finance acquisitions by issuing convertible debt or equity securities, our existing stockholders may be diluted which could affect the market price of our stock. 
Table of Contents  
We are exposed to the risks of operating a global business. 
costs and difficulties in staffing and managing international operations;    
legislative or regulatory requirements and potential changes in or interpretations of requirements in the United States and in the countries in which we manufacture or sell our products;    
trade restrictions, including treaty changes, sanctions and the suspension of export licenses;    
complex labor laws and privacy regulations;    
longer payment cycles;    
local political and economic conditions;    
Additionally, managing geographically dispersed operations presents difficult challenges associated with organizational alignment and infrastructure, communications and information technology, inventory control, customer relationship management, terrorist threats and related security matters and cultural diversities. If we are unsuccessful in managing such operations effectively, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. 
Table of Contents  
We use numerous vendors to supply parts, components and subassemblies for the manufacture of our products. It is not always possible to maintain multiple qualified suppliers for all of our parts, components and subassemblies. As a result, many key parts may be available only from a single supplier (“sole source”) or a limited number of suppliers. In addition, suppliers may significantly raise prices or cease manufacturing certain components (with or without advance notice to us) that are difficult to replace without significant reengineering of our products. On occasion, we have experienced problems in obtaining adequate and reliable quantities of various parts and components from certain key or sole source suppliers. Our results of operations may be materially and adversely impacted if we do not receive sufficient parts to meet our requirements in a timely and cost-effective manner. 
Our business requires capital to finance accounts receivable and product inventory that is not financed by trade creditors when our business is expanding. If cash from available sources is insufficient or cash is used for unanticipated needs, we may require additional capital sooner than anticipated. 
Table of Contents  
Table of Contents  
A limited number of customers account for a substantial percentage of our net sales.  
Table of Contents  
The loss of key personnel could adversely impact our business. 
Certain key personnel are critical to our business. Our future operating results depend substantially upon the continued service of our key personnel, many of whom are not bound by employment or non-competition agreements. Our future operating results also depend in significant part upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management, manufacturing, technical, engineering, marketing, sales and support personnel. Competition for qualified personnel, particularly those with technical skills, is intense, and we cannot ensure success in attracting or retaining qualified personnel. In addition, the cost of living in the San Diego and Bay Area, California, Boston, Massachusetts, Rosenheim and Kolbermoor, Germany, La Chaux-de-Fonds, Switzerland and Osaka, Japan areas, where the majority of our engineering personnel are located, is high and we have had difficulty in recruiting prospective employees from other locations. There may be only a limited number of persons with the requisite skills and relevant industry experience to serve in these positions and it may become increasingly difficult for us to hire personnel over time. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the loss of any of our key employees, by the failure of any key employee to perform in his or her current position, or by our inability to attract and retain skilled employees. 
A majority of our revenues are generated from exports to foreign countries, primarily in Asia, that are subject to economic and political instability and we compete against a number of Asian equipment suppliers. 
Table of Contents  
Compliance with regulations may impact sales to foreign customers and impose costs. 
Certain products and services that we offer require compliance with U.S. and other foreign country export and other regulations. Compliance with complex U.S. and other foreign country laws and regulations that apply to our international sales activities increases our cost of doing business in international jurisdictions and could expose us or our employees to fines and penalties. These laws and regulations include import and export requirements, the U.S. State Department International Traffic in Arms Regulations (“ITAR”) and U.S. and other foreign country laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and damage to our reputation. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate our policies, or that our policies will be effective in preventing all potential violations. Any such violations could include prohibitions on our ability to offer our products and services to one or more countries, and could also materially damage our reputation, our brand, our international expansion efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees, our business and our operating results. Further, defending against claims of violations of these laws and regulations, even if we are successful, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, divert management’s attention and resources and cause us to incur significant expenses. 
There may be changes in, and uncertainty with respect to, legislation, regulation and governmental policy in the United States. 
The change in administration in the United States has resulted and may continue to result in significant changes in, and uncertainty with respect to, legislation, regulation and government policy. Specific legislative and regulatory proposals that could have a material impact on us include, but are not limited to, infrastructure renewal programs; and modifications to international trade policy, such as approvals by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States; increased duties, tariffs or other restrictions; public company reporting requirements; environmental regulation and antitrust enforcement. 
Table of Contents  
Furthermore, On May 16, 2019, the Bureau of Industry and Security ("BIS") of the U.S. Department of Commerce added Huawei to the BIS's Entity List, which imposes limitations on the supply of certain U.S. items and product support to Huawei. Although our sales to Huawei are immaterial, to ensure compliance with the Entity List restrictions, we suspended shipments of all products to Huawei, effective May 16, 2019. We then reviewed our product portfolio to determine whether our products and related support are subject to the Export Administration Regulations ("EAR"), and therefore within the scope of the Entity List restrictions. We have determined that certain products Huawei purchases from us are not subject to the EAR and consequently can be lawfully sold and shipped to Huawei. Accordingly, we have recently resumed shipping certain products to Huawei. 
While Huawei remains on the Entity List, and in the absence of a license from the BIS, we may be unable to work with Huawei on future product development, which may have a negative effect on our ability to sell products to Huawei in the future. Entity List restrictions may also encourage Huawei to seek to obtain a greater supply of similar or substitute products from our competitors that are not subject to these restrictions, thereby decreasing our long-term competitiveness as a supplier to Huawei. More broadly, other China-based companies, unrelated to Huawei, may also seek alternative non-U.S. product sources driven by the ongoing unpredictability of U.S.-China trade relations. 
Table of Contents  
The occurrence of natural disasters and geopolitical instability caused by terrorist attacks and other threats may adversely impact our operations and sales. 
Our corporate headquarters is located in San Diego, California, our Asian sales and service headquarters is located in Singapore and the majority of our sales are made to destinations in Asia. In addition, we have Asia-based manufacturing plants in Malaysia, Philippines and Japan. These regions are known for being vulnerable to natural disasters and other risks, such as earthquakes, tsunamis, fires and floods, and geopolitical risks, which at times have disrupted the local economies. For example, a significant earthquake or tsunami could materially affect operating results. We are not insured for most losses and business interruptions of this kind, or for geopolitical or terrorism impacts, and presently have limited redundant, multiple site capacity in the event of a disaster. In the event of such disaster, our business would materially suffer. 
  ●   seasonal, volatile and unpredictable nature of the semiconductor equipment industry;    
  ●   timing and amount of orders from customers and shipments to customers;    
  ●   customer decisions to cancel orders or push out deliveries;    
  ●   inability to recognize revenue due to accounting requirements;    
  ●   inventory writedowns;    
  ●   unexpected expenses or cost overruns in the introduction and support of products;    
  ●   inability to deliver solutions as expected by our customers; and    
  ●   intangible and deferred tax asset writedowns.    
Table of Contents  
  Item 2.    Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.     
None. 
  Item 3.    Defaults Upon Senior Securities.     
None. 
  Item 4.    Mine Safety Disclosures    
  Item 5.    Other Information.     
None. 
Table of Contents  
Table of Contents  
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. 
