Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. 
Investment and Interest Rate Risk. 
At September 28, 2019, our investment portfolio included short-term fixed-income investment securities with a fair value of approximately $0.6 million. These securities are subject to interest rate risk and will likely decline in value if interest rates increase. Our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or we may suffer losses in principal if we are forced to sell securities that decline in market value due to changes in interest rates. As we classify our short-term securities as available-for-sale, no gains or losses are recognized due to changes in interest rates unless such securities are sold prior to maturity or declines in fair value are determined to be other-than-temporary. Due to the relatively short duration of our investment portfolio, an immediate ten percent change in interest rates would have no material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. 
In July 2017, the UK’s Financial Conduct Authority, which regulates the LIBOR, announced that it intends to phase out LIBOR by the end of 2021. After 2021, it is unclear whether banks will continue to provide LIBOR submissions to the administrator of LIBOR, and no consensus currently exists as to what benchmark rate or rates may become accepted alternatives to LIBOR. In the United States, efforts to identify a set of alternative U.S. dollar reference interest rates include proposals by the Alternative Reference Rates Committee that has been convened by the Federal Reserve Board and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. We cannot currently predict the effect of the discontinuation of, or other changes to, LIBOR or any establishment of alternative reference rates in the United States, the European Union or elsewhere on the global capital markets. The uncertainty regarding the future of LIBOR, as well as the transition from LIBOR to any alternative reference rate or rates, could have adverse impacts on floating rate obligations, loans, deposits, derivatives and other financial instruments that currently use LIBOR as a benchmark rate. Our Term B Loan facility constitutes our most significant exposure to this transition and there is no guarantee that a shift from LIBOR to a new reference rate will not result in increases to our borrowing costs. 
Foreign Currency Exchange Risk. 
Based upon the current levels of net foreign assets, a hypothetical 10% devaluation of the U.S. Dollar as compared to these currencies as of September 28, 2019 would result in an approximate $37.7 million positive translation adjustment recorded in other comprehensive income within stockholders’ equity. Conversely, a hypothetical 10% appreciation of the U.S. Dollar as compared to these currencies as of September 28, 2019 would result in an approximate $37.7 million negative translation adjustment recorded in other comprehensive income within stockholders’ equity. 
