Item 4. Controls and Procedures. 
It should be noted that any system of controls, however well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the system are met. In addition, the design of any control system is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events. Because of these and other inherent limitations of control systems, there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions, regardless of how remote. Our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives and our principal executive officer and principal financial officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective at the reasonable assurance level. 
  Item 1.    Legal Proceedings.     
The information set forth above under Note 11 contained in the "Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements" of this Form 10-Q is incorporated herein by reference. 
Item 1A. Risk Factors.  
Cohu acquired Xcerra Corporation (“Xcerra”) on October 1, 2018, at which time Xcerra became a wholly owned subsidiary of Cohu (the “Merger”). Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits and synergies of the Merger will depend, to a large extent, on our ability to integrate Xcerra, which is expected to be a complex, costly and time-consuming process. The integration process may disrupt our business and, if implemented ineffectively or delayed, could restrict the realization of the full expected benefits. The failure to meet the challenges involved in the integration process and to realize the anticipated benefits of the Merger could cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, our operations and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 
  ●   difficulties entering new markets or manufacturing in new geographies where Cohu has no or limited direct prior experience;    
  ●   such a new market for Cohu, the automated test equipment market, is intensely competitive with entrenched large competitors who are much larger than Cohu;    
  ●   successfully managing relationships with Cohu and Xcerra’s combined supplier and customer base;    
  ●   coordinating and integrating independent research and development and engineering teams across technologies and product platforms to enhance product development while reducing costs;    
  ●   coordinating sales and marketing efforts to effectively position the combined company’s capabilities and the direction of product development;    
  ●   difficulties and significant costs in integrating the systems and processes of two companies with complex operations including multiple manufacturing sites;    
  ●   difficulties and potential loss of sales in transitioning customers from certain Xcerra products that are being discontinued and to Cohu products;    
  ●   product manufacturing disruptions and delays as we consolidate certain manufacturing sites;    
  ●   difficulties and errors that may occur in integrating disparate accounting staffs, processes and systems;    
  ●   the increased scale and complexity of Cohu’s operations resulting from the Merger;    
  ●   Cohu’s ability to achieve the targeted cost synergies within the expected time frame, and significant costs of integration and restructuring;    
  ●   retaining key employees of Cohu and Xcerra;    
  ●   obligations that Cohu will have to counterparties of Xcerra that arise as a result of the change in control of Xcerra;    
  ●   legal impediments, delays and significant costs to reduce headcounts in various geographies;    
Cohu’s ability to utilize Xcerra’s net operating loss and credit carryforwards is severely limited. 
As a result of the Merger an ownership change has occurred at Xcerra and as a consequence Cohu’s ability to utilize Xcerra’s net operating loss and credit carryforwards, that were already partially limited due to a prior acquisition, will be subject to annual limitations as provided for in Internal Revenue Code Sections 382 and 383. These annual limitations will result in the inability of Cohu to utilize a substantial portion of these carryforwards. 
Uncertainties underlie Cohu’s expectation that, relative to Cohu on a stand-alone basis, the Merger will be accretive to Cohu’s earnings per share. 
Cohu believes that, relative to Cohu on a stand-alone basis, the Merger will be accretive to Cohu’s earnings per share upon completion of the ongoing restructuring and integration. However, Cohu cannot give any assurance that the Merger will actually be accretive to Cohu’s earnings per share. In addition to the uncertainties that underlie any financial forecast, Cohu will account for the Merger as an acquisition under Accounting Standards Codification Topic 805, “Business Combinations,” or “ASC 805”. The total cost of the Merger will be allocated to the underlying identifiable net tangible and intangible assets and liabilities based on their respective estimated fair values. Until these allocations are completed, Cohu can only estimate the allocation of the acquisition price to the net assets acquired and the effect of the allocation on future results. That estimate could materially change. 
The use of cash and incurrence of substantial indebtedness in connection with the financing of the Merger may have an adverse impact on Cohu’s liquidity, limit Cohu’s flexibility in responding to other business opportunities and increase Cohu’s vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions. 
The Merger was financed in part by using Cohu’s and Xcerra’s cash on hand and the incurrence of indebtedness. In connection with the Merger, Cohu entered into a term loan facility, with an aggregate principal amount of $350.0 million (the “Debt Financing” or “Credit Agreement”). Cohu used $160.5 million of Cohu’s and Xcerra’s cash on hand to complete the Merger. Cohu’s (including Xcerra’s) cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments as of June 29, 2019 were approximately $143.6 million. The use of cash on hand and indebtedness to finance the acquisition has reduced Cohu’s liquidity and could cause Cohu to place more reliance on cash generated from operations to pay principal and interest on Cohu’s debt, thereby reducing the availability of Cohu’s cash flow for working capital, dividend and capital expenditure needs or to pursue other potential strategic plans. 
  ●   incur or assume liens or additional debt or provide guarantees in respect of obligations of other persons;    
  ●   issue redeemable stock and preferred stock;    
  ●   make loans, investments or acquisitions;    
  ●   enter into agreements that restrict distributions from our subsidiaries;    
  ●   create or permit restrictions on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions to us or to guarantee our debt, limit our or any of our subsidiaries’ ability to create liens, or that require the grant of a lien to secure an obligation if a lien is granted to secure another obligation;    
  ●   sell assets and capital stock of our subsidiaries;    
  ●   enter into certain transactions with affiliates;    
  ●   sell, transfer, license, lease or dispose of our or our subsidiaries’ assets; and    
  ●   dissolve, liquidate, consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all the assets of us and our subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to, another person.    
  ●   finance our operations;    
  ●   make needed capital expenditures;    
Because of high debt levels, Cohu has total consolidated long-term debt of $342 million, and may not be able to service its debt obligations in accordance with their terms; the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act severely limits the deductibility of interest expense. 
Cohu’s ability to meet its expense and debt service obligations contained in the Debt Financing agreements will depend on Cohu’s future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors, including potential changes in industry conditions, industry supply and demand balance, customer preferences, the success of Cohu’s products and pressure from competitors. In addition, Cohu is subject to interest rate risks, and continuing increases in interest rates will increase Cohu’s debt service obligations. Should combined Cohu and Xcerra revenues decline after the Merger (as compared to last year), as they did in first quarter 2019 and are again forecasted to do so in second quarter 2019, Cohu may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to pay its debt service obligations when due. If Cohu is unable to meet its debt service obligations after the Merger or should Cohu fail to comply with the covenants contained in the agreements governing its indebtedness, Cohu may be required to refinance all or part of its debt, sell important strategic assets at unfavorable prices, incur additional indebtedness or issue Cohu Common Stock or other equity securities. Cohu may not be able to, at any given time, refinance its debt, sell assets, incur additional indebtedness or issue equity securities on terms acceptable to Cohu, in amounts sufficient to meet Cohu’s needs or at all. If Cohu is able to raise additional funds through the issuance of equity securities, such issuance would also result in dilution to Cohu’s stockholders. Cohu’s inability to service its debt obligations or refinance its debt could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial conditions or operating results after the Merger. In addition, Cohu’s debt obligations may limit its ability to make required investments in capacity, technology or other areas of its business, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial conditions or operating results. Furthermore, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act limits the deductibility of interest expense in a given year to 30% of adjusted taxable income, as defined. This resulted in the inability of Cohu to utilize a substantial portion of its interest expense deductions in 2018 and may impact our ability to utilize future deductions. However, the Act permits indefinite carryforward of any disallowed business interest, subject to Internal Revenue Code section 382 limitations on utilization. 
The Merger was financed in part by the issuance of additional shares of our common stock to shareholders of Xcerra, comprised approximately 11.8 million shares of common stock, or approximately 29% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock immediately after completing the Merger. These issuances of additional shares of our common stock have diluted shareholders’ ownership interest in our company, and shareholders now have a proportionately reduced ownership and voting interest in our company as a result of completion of the Merger. 
Cohu has accounted for the acquisition of Xcerra using the purchase method of accounting. A portion of the purchase price for this business was allocated to identifiable tangible and intangible assets and assumed liabilities based on estimated fair values at the date of consummation of the merger. As a result of the Merger, 48.8% of Cohu’s total assets are comprised of goodwill and other intangibles, of which approximately $241.5 million is allocated to goodwill. In accordance with ASC 350, Intangibles — Goodwill and Other, goodwill and certain other intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortized but are reviewed at least annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications of impairment. All other intangible assets are subject to periodic amortization. Cohu evaluates the remaining useful lives of other intangibles each quarter to determine whether events and circumstances warrant a revision to the remaining period of amortization. If we are unable to realize the anticipated benefits of the Merger, when Cohu performs future impairment tests, it is possible that the carrying value of goodwill or other intangible assets could exceed their implied fair value and therefore would require adjustment. Such adjustment would result in a charge to operating income in that period. Once adjusted, there can be no assurance that there will not be further adjustments for impairment in future periods. 
We are required by the Securities and Exchange Commission to establish and maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting that provides reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. We are likewise required, on a quarterly basis, to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal controls and to disclose any changes and material weaknesses in those internal controls. 
  ●   as a result of the Merger and the issuance of shares of Cohu Common Stock in connection with the Merger, the total amount of cash required for Cohu to pay dividends at its current rate has increased;    
  ●   Cohu’s credit agreement restricts payments of dividends under certain circumstances;    
  ●   Cohu may not have enough cash to pay such dividends due to Cohu’s operational cash requirements, capital spending plans, cash flow or financial position;    
  ●   rising interest rates, which increase Cohu’s debt service obligations;    
  ●   Cohu may desire to retain cash to maintain or improve its credit ratings;    
  ●   difficulties and increased costs in connection with integration of the personnel, operations, technologies and products of acquired businesses;    
  ●   Cohu may reduce or eliminate its dividend in order to pay down debt;    
 ● decisions on whether, when and in which amounts to make any future distributions will remain at all times entirely at the discretion of the Cohu Board, which reserves the right to change Cohu’s dividend practices at any time with no prior notice; and  
  ●   the amount of dividends that Cohu’s subsidiaries may distribute to Cohu may be subject to restrictions imposed by state or foreign law, restrictions that may be imposed by state or foreign regulators, and restrictions imposed by the terms of any current or future indebtedness that these subsidiaries may incur.    
The Xcerra division has relied on Spirox Corporation (“Spirox”) as its primary distribution channel for sales and service in China and Taiwan for its Semiconductor Test Solutions products, a region that represents a material portion of Xcerra’s revenues. Spirox has had direct contact with Xcerra’s customers, and Spirox has been obligated to satisfy all installation and service obligations for the Semiconductor Test Solutions products. After a thorough review of this arrangement, on October 12, 2018, we notified Spirox of our intention to terminate the Spirox distribution agreement, and subsequently negotiated an accelerated wind-down and termination date of March 12, 2019. Our business and financial performance within the China and Taiwan region may be negatively impacted if cooperation with Spirox during the transition fails, if Cohu is delayed and otherwise fails to timely and adequately staff and fund sales and service resources in the region to replace those resources that have previously been provided by Spirox, or if customers delay or fail, for any reason, to transition to direct sales with us. 
  ●   difficulties and increased costs in connection with integration of the personnel, operations, technologies and products of acquired businesses;    
  ●   increasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our business;    
  ●   the cost and risk of having to potentially develop new and unfamiliar sales channels for acquired businesses;    
  ●   diversion of management’s attention from other operational matters;    
  ●   the potential loss of key employees, customers or suppliers of Cohu or acquired businesses;    
  ●   lack of synergy, or the inability to realize expected synergies, resulting from the acquisition;    
  ●   potential unknown liabilities associated with the acquired businesses;    
  ●   failure to commercialize purchased technology;    
  ●   the impairment of acquired intangible assets and goodwill that could result in significant charges to operating results in future periods; and    
  ●   challenges caused by distance, language and cultural differences.    
We may decide to finance future acquisitions and investments through a combination of borrowings, proceeds from equity or debt offerings and the use of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. If we finance acquisitions by issuing convertible debt or equity securities, our existing stockholders may be diluted which could affect the market price of our stock. 
Given the highly competitive and rapidly evolving technology environment in which we operate, we believe it is important to develop new product offerings to meet strategic opportunities as they evolve. This includes developing products that we believe are necessary to meet the future needs of the marketplace. We are currently investing in new product development programs to enable us to compete in the test contactor markets, while also investing in next generation test handlers and automated test equipment. We expect to continue to make investments and we may at any time, based on product need or marketplace demand, decide to significantly increase our product development expenditures in these or other products. The cost of investments in new product offerings can have a negative impact on our operating results. For example, our PANTHER wafer level package probe system has incurred significant development costs, but has not generated material revenues for us. There can be no assurance that new products we develop will be accepted in the marketplace or generate material revenues for us. 
We are exposed to the risks of operating a global business. 
  ●   costs and difficulties in staffing and managing international operations;    
  ●   legislative or regulatory requirements and potential changes in or interpretations of requirements in the United States and in the countries in which we manufacture or sell our products;    
  ●   trade restrictions, including treaty changes, sanctions and the suspension of export licenses;    
  ●   difficulties in enforcing contractual and intellectual property rights;    
  ●   local political and economic conditions;    
Additionally, managing geographically dispersed operations presents difficult challenges associated with organizational alignment and infrastructure, communications and information technology, inventory control, customer relationship management, terrorist threats and related security matters and cultural diversities. If we are unsuccessful in managing such operations effectively, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. 
We have manufacturing operations in Asia. Any failure to effectively manage multiple manufacturing sites and to secure raw materials meeting our quality, cost and other requirements, or failures by our suppliers to perform, could harm our sales, service levels and reputation. 
Failure of critical suppliers to deliver sufficient quantities of parts in a timely and cost-effective manner could adversely impact our operations. 
We use numerous vendors to supply parts, components and subassemblies for the manufacture of our products. It is not always possible to maintain multiple qualified suppliers for all of our parts, components and subassemblies. As a result, many key parts may be available only from a single supplier (“sole source”) or a limited number of suppliers. In addition, suppliers may significantly raise prices or cease manufacturing certain components (with or without advance notice to us) that are difficult to replace without significant reengineering of our products. On occasion, we have experienced problems in obtaining adequate and reliable quantities of various parts and components from certain key or sole source suppliers. Our results of operations may be materially and adversely impacted if we do not receive sufficient parts to meet our requirements in a timely and cost-effective manner. 
Visibility into our markets is limited. The semiconductor equipment business is highly dependent on the overall strength of the semiconductor industry. Historically, the semiconductor industry has been seasonal with recurring periods of oversupply and excess capacity, which often have had a significant effect on the semiconductor industry’s demand for capital equipment, including equipment of the type we manufacture and market. We anticipate that the markets for newer generations of semiconductors and semiconductor equipment will also be subject to similar cycles and severe downturns. Any significant reductions in capital equipment investment by semiconductor integrated device manufacturers and test subcontractors will materially and adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. In addition, the seasonal, volatile and unpredictable nature of semiconductor equipment demand has in the past and may in the future expose us to significant excess and obsolete and lower of cost or net realizable value inventory write-offs and reserve requirements. In 2018, 2017 and 2016, we recorded pre-tax inventory-related charges of approximately $1.4 million, $1.1 million, and $1.1 million, respectively, primarily as a result of changes in customer forecasts. More recently, in the second half of 2018 and continuing into 2019, we have seen significantly weakened demand in mobility and consumer market segments, and overall geographic weakness in China and Taiwan. These trends adversely affected our second half 2018 results, first half 2019 results, and are expected to continue to adversely impact our 2019 outlook and results. Such adverse trends have materially impacted all of our business areas, including the businesses conducted by Xcerra. Finally, in 2018 we incurred $19.1 million of inventory charges related to the decision to end manufacturing of certain of Xcerra’s semiconductor test handler products, and these charges may be insufficient as market conditions and demand changes. 
Our business requires capital to finance accounts receivable and product inventory that is not financed by trade creditors when our business is expanding. If cash from available sources is insufficient or cash is used for unanticipated needs, we may require additional capital sooner than anticipated. 
We believe that our existing sources of liquidity, including cash resources and cash provided by operating activities will provide sufficient resources to meet our working capital and cash requirements for at least the next twelve months. In the event we are required, or elect, to raise additional funds, we may be unable to do so on favorable terms, or at all, and may incur expenses in raising the additional funds and increase our interest rate exposure, and any future indebtedness could adversely affect our operating results and severely limit our ability to plan for, or react to, changes in our business or industry. Further, under our Credit Agreement, we are significantly limited by financial and other negative covenants in our credit arrangements, including limitations on our borrowing of additional funds and issuing dividends. If we choose to issue new equity securities, existing stockholders may experience dilution, or the new equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing holders of common stock. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements. Any inability to raise additional capital when required could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. 
In addition, with the Xcerra acquisition, Cohu has entered the automated test equipment (“ATE”) market. Our ability to increase our ATE sales will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain orders from new customers. Semiconductor and electronics manufacturers typically select a particular vendor’s product for testing new generations of a device and make substantial investments to develop related test program applications and interfaces. Once a manufacturer has selected an ATE vendor for a new generation of a device, that manufacturer is more likely to purchase systems from that vendor for that generation of the device, and, possibly, subsequent generations of that device as well. Further, Cohu has a niche position and relatively low share in the ATE market, and this market is primarily driven by two larger companies with significantly more resources to invest into the ATE market. Therefore, the opportunities to obtain orders from new customers or existing customers may be limited, which may impair our ability to grow our ATE revenue. In fact, as market conditions have weakened, we have seen a material reduction in sales within our ATE business. 
A limited number of customers account for a substantial percentage of our net sales.  
If we cannot continue to develop, manufacture and market products and services that meet customer requirements for innovation and quality, our revenue and gross margin may suffer.  
The loss of key personnel could adversely impact our business. 
Certain key personnel are critical to our business. Our future operating results depend substantially upon the continued service of our key personnel, many of whom are not bound by employment or non-competition agreements. Our future operating results also depend in significant part upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management, manufacturing, technical, engineering, marketing, sales and support personnel. Competition for qualified personnel, particularly those with technical skills, is intense, and we cannot ensure success in attracting or retaining qualified personnel. In addition, the cost of living in the San Diego and Bay Area, California, Boston, Massachusetts, Rosenheim and Kolbermoor, Germany, La Chaux-de-Fonds, Switzerland and Osaka, Japan areas, where the majority of our engineering personnel are located, is high and we have had difficulty in recruiting prospective employees from other locations. There may be only a limited number of persons with the requisite skills and relevant industry experience to serve in these positions and it may become increasingly difficult for us to hire personnel over time. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the loss of any of our key employees, by the failure of any key employee to perform in his or her current position, or by our inability to attract and retain skilled employees. 
A majority of our revenues are generated from exports to foreign countries, primarily in Asia, that are subject to economic and political instability and we compete against a number of Asian test handling equipment suppliers. 
Compliance with regulations may impact sales to foreign customers and impose costs. 
Certain products and services that we offer require compliance with U.S. and other foreign country export and other regulations. Compliance with complex U.S. and other foreign country laws and regulations that apply to our international sales activities increases our cost of doing business in international jurisdictions and could expose us or our employees to fines and penalties. These laws and regulations include import and export requirements, the U.S. State Department International Traffic in Arms Regulations (“ITAR”) and U.S. and other foreign country laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and damage to our reputation. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate our policies, or that our policies will be effective in preventing all potential violations. Any such violations could include prohibitions on our ability to offer our products and services to one or more countries, and could also materially damage our reputation, our brand, our international expansion efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees, our business and our operating results. Further, defending against claims of violations of these laws and regulations, even if we are successful, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, divert management’s attention and resources and cause us to incur significant expenses. 
There may be changes in, and uncertainty with respect to, legislation, regulation and governmental policy in the United States. 
The change in administration in the United States has resulted and may continue to result in significant changes in, and uncertainty with respect to, legislation, regulation and government policy. While it is not possible to predict whether and when any such additional changes will occur, changes at the local, state or federal level could impact fuel cell market adoption in the U.S. and the alternative energy technologies sector in the U.S., generally. Specific legislative and regulatory proposals that could have a material impact on us include, but are not limited to, infrastructure renewal programs; and modifications to international trade policy, such as approvals by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States; increased duties, tariffs or other restrictions; public company reporting requirements; environmental regulation and antitrust enforcement. 
In the first six months of fiscal year 2019, 88% of our revenue was from products shipped to customer locations outside the United States. We also purchase a significant portion of components and subassemblies from suppliers outside the United States. Additionally, a significant portion of our facilities are located outside the United States, including Malaysia, Germany, China and Japan. 
The United States and other countries have levied tariffs and taxes on certain goods. General trade tensions between the U.S. and China have been escalating since 2018, with U.S. tariffs on Chinese goods and retaliatory Chinese tariffs on U.S. goods. Higher duties on existing tariffs and further rounds of tariffs have been announced or repeatedly threatened by U.S. and Chinese leaders. Additionally, the U.S. has threatened to impose tariffs on goods imported from other countries, which could also impact our or certain of our customers' operations. If the U.S. were to impose current or additional tariffs on components that we or our suppliers source, our cost for such components would increase. We may also incur increases in manufacturing costs and supply chain risks due to our efforts to mitigate the impact of tariffs on our customers and our operations. Tariffs on our customers' products could also impact their sales of such end products, resulting in lower demand for our products. 
Furthermore, On May 16, 2019, the Bureau of Industry and Security ("BIS") of the U.S. Department of Commerce added Huawei to the BIS's Entity List, which imposes limitations on the supply of certain U.S. items and product support to Huawei. Although our sales to Huawei are immaterial, to ensure compliance with the Entity List restrictions, we suspended shipments of all products to Huawei, effective May 16, 2019. We then reviewed our product portfolio to determine whether our products and related support are subject to the Export Administration Regulations ("EAR"), and therefore within the scope of the Entity List restrictions. We have determined that certain products Huawei purchases from us are not subject to the EAR and consequently can be lawfully sold and shipped to Huawei. Accordingly, we have recently resumed shipping certain products to Huawei. 
While Huawei remains on the Entity List, and in the absence of a license from the BIS, we may be unable to work with Huawei on future product development, which may have a negative effect on our ability to sell products to Huawei in the future. Entity List restrictions may also encourage Huawei to seek to obtain a greater supply of similar or substitute products from our competitors that are not subject to these restrictions, thereby decreasing our long-term competitiveness as a supplier to Huawei. 
Our business and operations could suffer in the event of cybersecurity breaches.  
We are in development stage for the global replacement of our existing ERP solution. The new solution is being developed as an enterprise solution in partnership with a leading provider of ERP tools. Additional investments in enterprise tools that focus on product life-cycle management, our customer experience, and supply chain management are in process to support our growing business. These implementations are extremely complex and time-consuming projects that involve substantial expenditures on software and implementation activities. If we do not effectively implement the system or if the system does not operate as intended, it could result in the loss or corruption of data, delayed order processing and shipments and increased costs. It could also adversely affect our financial reporting systems and our ability to produce financial reports and process transactions, the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting, and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 
The occurrence of natural disasters and geopolitical instability caused by terrorist attacks and other threats may adversely impact our operations and sales. 
Our corporate headquarters is located in San Diego, California, our Asian sales and service headquarters is located in Singapore and the majority of our sales are made to destinations in Asia. In addition, we have Asia-based manufacturing plants in Malaysia, Philippines and Japan. These regions are known for being vulnerable to natural disasters and other risks, such as earthquakes, tsunamis, fires and floods, and geopolitical risks, which at times have disrupted the local economies. For example, a significant earthquake or tsunami could materially affect operating results. We are not insured for most losses and business interruptions of this kind, or for geopolitical or terrorism impacts, and presently have limited redundant, multiple site capacity in the event of a disaster. In the event of such disaster, our business would materially suffer. 
  ●   seasonal, volatile and unpredictable nature of the semiconductor equipment industry;    
  ●   timing and amount of orders from customers and shipments to customers;    
  ●   customer decisions to cancel orders or push out deliveries;    
  ●   inability to recognize revenue due to accounting requirements;    
  ●   inventory writedowns;    
  ●   unexpected expenses or cost overruns in the introduction and support of products;    
  ●   inability to deliver solutions as expected by our customers; and    
  ●   intangible and deferred tax asset writedowns.    
Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.  
Item 3. Defaults Upon Senior Securities.  
Table of Contents  
Table of Contents  
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. 
