Cohu is a leading supplier of semiconductor test and inspection handlers, micro-electro mechanical system (MEMS) test modules, test contactors and thermal subsystems used by global semiconductor manufacturers and test subcontractors. Our business is significantly dependent on capital expenditures by semiconductor manufacturers and test subcontractors, which in turn is dependent on the current and anticipated market demand for semiconductors that is subject to seasonal trends. We expect that the semiconductor equipment industry will continue to be seasonal in part because consumer electronics, automotive and mobility, the principal end markets for integrated circuits, are highly dynamic industries and demand has traditionally fluctuated with global consumer spending. In light of these conditions, our results can vary significantly year-over-year. 
During the first three months of 2018, our net sales increased 11% from the fourth quarter of 2017 and 17% from the first quarter of 2017. The increase in sales was driven by market share gains for semiconductor test handlers used for testing devices used in mobility and IoT (Internet of Things) and automotive markets. Customer test cell utilization and business conditions remain strong. We continue to see momentum in the automotive, mobility and industrial markets and are optimistic about the prospects for our business due to the increasing ubiquity of semiconductors, the diminishing impact of parallel test, increasing semiconductor complexity and increasing quality demands from semiconductor customers. We are continuing our investment in new products and are focused on growing our market share in the semiconductor test handling and test contactor markets, and expanding into the semiconductor inspection market. 
On May 8, 2018, we announced that we entered into the Merger Agreement, dated as of May 7, 2018, by and between Cohu and Xcerra. At the effective time of the Merger, each share of Xcerra Common Stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Merger will be converted into the right to receive $9.00 in cash, without interest, and 0.2109 of a validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable share of Cohu Common Stock. We currently expect the Merger, which is subject to stockholder and regulatory approvals, and other customary closing conditions, to close in the second half of 2018. 
the valuation and recognition of share-based compensation, which impacts gross margin, research and development expense, and selling, general and administrative expense.    
Below, we discuss these policies further, as well as the estimates and judgments involved. We also have other policies that we consider key accounting policies; however, these policies typically do not require us to make estimates or judgments that are difficult or subjective. 
We conduct our annual impairment test as of October 1st of each year, and have determined there was no impairment as of October 1, 2017, as we determined that the estimated fair values of our reporting units exceeded their carrying values on that date. Other events and changes in circumstances may also require goodwill to be tested for impairment between annual measurement dates. As of March 31, 2018, we do not believe that circumstances have occurred that indicate impairment of our goodwill is more-likely-than-not. In the event we determine that an interim goodwill impairment review is required, in a future period, the review may result in an impairment charge, which would have a negative impact on our results of operations. 
Long-lived assets, other than goodwill, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets might not be recoverable. Conditions that would necessitate an impairment assessment include a significant decline in the observable market value of an asset, a significant change in the extent or manner in which an asset is used, or any other significant adverse change that would indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or group of assets may not be recoverable. For long-lived assets, impairment losses are only recorded if the asset’s carrying amount is not recoverable through its undiscounted, probability-weighted future cash flows. We measure the impairment loss based on the difference between the carrying amount and estimated fair value. 
For a description of accounting changes and recent accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects, if any, on our consolidated financial statements, see Note 1, “Recent Accounting Pronouncements” in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q. 
Our consolidated net sales increased 17.3% to $95.2 million in 2018, compared to net sales of $81.1 million in 2017. Consolidated net sales in 2018 continued to benefit from favorable business conditions within the semiconductor industry and our success in growing share in the test handler and test contactor markets. Increased sales in 2018, as compared to 2017, were driven primarily by demand for thermal subsystems for mobile processor test 
Other than for foreign currency exchange rate changes and the Kita Acquisition, there was no material change to our unrecognized tax benefits and related accrued interest and penalties during the three-month periods ended March 31, 2018 and March 25, 2017. 
As a result of the factors set forth above, our income from continuing operations and net income was $8.1 million during the three months ended March 31, 2018. In 2017, income from continuing operations and net income was $6.8 million during the three months ended March 25, 2017. 
Our primary business is dependent on capital expenditures by semiconductor manufacturers and test subcontractors that are, in turn, dependent on the current and anticipated market demand for semiconductors. The cyclical and volatile nature of demand for semiconductor equipment, our primary industry, makes estimates of future revenues, results of operations and net cash flows difficult. 
Our primary historical source of liquidity and capital resources has been cash flow generated by our operations and we manage our businesses to maximize operating cash flows as our primary source of liquidity. We use cash to fund growth in our operating assets and to fund new products and product enhancements primarily through research and development. As of March 31, 2018, $79.9 million or 57% of our cash and cash equivalents was held by our foreign subsidiaries. If these funds are needed for our operations in the U.S., we may be required to accrue and pay foreign withholding taxes if we repatriate these funds. At March 31, 2018 we accrued $2.4 million of foreign withholding tax that would be payable in the event we repatriate funds from certain of our foreign subsidiaries. 
We have credit agreements with multiple financial institutions in Japan under which they administer lines of credit on behalf of our wholly owned Kita subsidiary. The credit facilities renew monthly and provide Kita with access to working capital totaling up to $6.6 million. At March 31, 2018 total borrowings outstanding under the revolving lines of credit were $3.3 million. As these credit facility agreements renew monthly, they have been included in short-term borrowings in our condensed consolidated balance sheet. We also have long-term term loans from a series of Japanese financial institutions totaling $5.8 million primarily related to the expansion of Kita’s facility in Osaka, Japan. The loans are collateralized by the facility and land. The loans carry interest rates ranging from 0.05% to 0.45% and expire at various dates through 2034. At March 31, 2018, $1.3 million of the term loans have been included in current installments of long-term debt in our condensed consolidated balance sheet. The revolving lines of credit and term loans are denominated in Japanese Yen and, as a result, amounts will fluctuate as a result of changes in currency exchange rates. 
We also have a credit agreement with a financial institution under which it administers a line of credit on behalf of our wholly owned Ismeca subsidiary. The agreement provides Ismeca with 2.0 million Swiss Francs of available credit and at March 31, 2018, no amounts were outstanding. We expect that we will continue to make capital expenditures to support our business and we anticipate that present working capital will be sufficient to meet our operating requirements for at least the next twelve months. 
We have a secured letter of credit facility (the “Secured Facility”) under which Bank of America, N.A., has agreed to administer the issuance of letters of credit on our behalf. The Secured Facility requires us to maintain deposits of cash or other approved investments, which serve as collateral, in amounts that approximate our outstanding letters of credit and contains customary restrictive covenants. As of March 31, 2018, no amounts were outstanding under standby letters of credit under the Secured Facility. 
On May 7, 2018, Cohu entered to a Merger Agreement with Xcerra and Xavier Acquisition Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of Cohu. Refer to Note 8, “Subsequent Event,” herein for further information. Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., a subsidiary of Deutsche Bank AG, has committed to capitalize Cohu to fund the transaction. 
