Item 1A. Risk Factors.  
On May 8, 2018, we announced that we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger Agreement”), dated as of May 7, 2018, by and among Cohu, Xavier Acquisition Corporation, a Delaware corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cohu (“Merger Sub”) and Xcerra Corporation, a Massachusetts corporation (“Xcerra”). Under the terms of the Merger Agreement, the acquisition of Xcerra will be accomplished through a merger of Merger Sub with and into Xcerra (the “Merger”), with Xcerra surviving the Merger as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cohu. 
We currently anticipate that we will close the Merger in early fourth quarter 2018, but we cannot be certain when or if the conditions for the Merger will be satisfied or waived. We intend to hold a special meeting of our stockholders on August 30, 2018, to seek stockholder approval for the issuance of additional shares of Cohu common stock as consideration in the Merger. The Merger cannot be completed until the conditions are satisfied or waived, including receipt of our stockholders’ approval of the issuance of additional shares of Cohu common stock as consideration in the Merger, receipt of Xcerra’s stockholders’ approval of the Merger, and other customary closing conditions. While the regulatory and antitrust approvals have been achieved, satisfying the other conditions to the closing of the Merger may take longer than we expect. Any delay in completing the Merger could result in the failure to realize cost synergies projected to result from the Merger and other benefits that Cohu expects to achieve if we successfully complete the Merger within the expected timeframe and integrate the businesses. 
Xcerra and members of the Xcerra Board are presently, and Cohu, Merger Sub and members of the Cohu Board may in the future be parties, among others, to various claims and litigation related to the Merger, including putative stockholder class actions. 
Cohu could be required to pay a termination fee of $22.8 million to Xcerra under certain circumstances, and Cohu could be required to pay the Financing Termination Fee of $45.0 million if the failure to complete the Merger related to a failure by Cohu to obtain financing;    
Table of Contents  
potential legal proceedings related to the Merger;    
the failure of the Merger to be consummated could result in negative publicity and a negative impression of Cohu in the investment community;    
disruptions to our business resulting from the announcement and pendency of the Merger, including any adverse changes in its relationships with customers, strategic partners, suppliers, licensees, other business partners and employees, may continue or intensify in the event the Merger is not consummated;    
difficulties entering new markets or manufacturing in new geographies where Cohu has no or limited direct prior experience;    
successfully managing relationships with Cohu and Xcerra’s combined supplier and customer base;    
coordinating and integrating independent research and development and engineering teams across technologies and product platforms to enhance product development while reducing costs;    
coordinating sales and marketing efforts to effectively position the combined company’s capabilities and the direction of product development;    
the increased scale and complexity of Cohu’s operations resulting from the Merger;    
Cohu’s ability to achieve the cost synergies contemplated by the proposed transaction within the expected time frame, and significant costs of integration and restructuring;    
retaining key employees of Cohu and Xcerra;    
obligations that Cohu will have to counterparties of Xcerra that arise as a result of the change in control of Xcerra;    
diversion of management’s attention to integration matters.    
Table of Contents  
delay, defer or cease purchasing goods or services from or providing goods or services to either company;    
delay or defer other decisions concerning, or refuse to extend credit to either company, as applicable;    
cease further joint development activities; or    
otherwise seek to change the terms on which they do business with either company, as applicable.    
While Cohu is attempting to address these risks through proactive communications with its existing and prospective customers, suppliers or joint development partners, such parties may be reluctant to continue to do business with Cohu or Xcerra, as applicable, due to the potential uncertainty about, among other things, product offerings and the support and service following the consummation of the Merger. 
If the Merger is completed, the composition of the Cohu Board will change. Upon completion of the Merger, the Cohu Board will include two new members selected from members of the Xcerra Board. There can be no assurance that the newly constituted Cohu Board will function effectively as a team and that there will not be any adverse effect on the combined company’s business as a result. 
Cohu believes that, relative to Cohu on a stand-alone basis, the Merger will be accretive to Cohu’s earnings per share following the consummation of the Merger. However, Cohu cannot give any assurance that the Merger will be accretive to Cohu’s earnings per share. In addition to the uncertainties that underlie any financial forecast, Cohu will account for the Merger as an acquisition under Accounting Standards Codification Topic 805, “Business Combinations,” or “ASC 805”. The total cost of the Merger will be allocated to the underlying identifiable net tangible and intangible assets and liabilities based on their respective estimated fair values. Until the acquisition price and other factors are known, Cohu can only estimate the allocation of the acquisition price to the net assets acquired and the effect of the allocation on future results. That estimate could materially change. 
Table of Contents  
The Merger will be financed in part by using Cohu’s cash on hand and the incurrence of indebtedness. As of June 30, 2018, Cohu had approximately $127.0 million of cash and cash equivalents, approximately $23.9 million of short-term investments, and approximately $8.4 million of total debt outstanding. In connection with the Merger, Cohu expects to enter into a term loan facility, with an aggregate principal amount of $350.0 million, and if cash on hand at Xcerra is not available at the closing of the Merger, a cash bridge facility, with an aggregate principal amount of up to $100.0 million, to finance a portion of the Merger cash consideration and pay related costs and expenses (the “Debt Financing”). The use of cash on hand and indebtedness to finance the acquisition will reduce Cohu’s liquidity and could cause Cohu to place more reliance on cash generated from operations to pay principal and interest on Cohu’s debt, thereby reducing the availability of Cohu’s cash flow for working capital, dividend and capital expenditure needs or to pursue other potential strategic plans. Cohu expects that the agreements it will enter into with respect to the Debt Financing will contain certain negative covenants, including limitations on Cohu’s ability to incur additional liens and indebtedness or to pay dividends and make certain investments. Cohu’s ability to comply with these negative covenants may be affected by events beyond its control. The indebtedness and these negative covenants will also have the effect, among other things, of limiting Cohu’s ability to obtain additional financing, if needed, limiting its flexibility in the conduct of its business and making Cohu more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse competitive and industry conditions. In addition, a breach of the negative covenants could result in an event of default with respect to the indebtedness, which, if not cured or waived, could result in the indebtedness becoming immediately due and payable and could have a material adverse effect on Cohu’s business, financial condition or operating results. 
Cohu’s ability to meet its expense and debt service obligations contained in the agreements Cohu expects to enter into with respect to the Debt Financing will depend on Cohu’s future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors, including potential changes in industry conditions, industry supply and demand balance, customer preferences, the success of Cohu’s products and pressure from competitors. In addition, Cohu is subject to interest rate risks, and continuing increases in interest rates will increase Cohu’s debt service obligations. Should Cohu’s revenues decline after the Merger, Cohu may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to pay its debt service obligations when due. If Cohu is unable to meet its debt service obligations after the Merger or should Cohu fail to comply with the covenants contained in the agreements governing its indebtedness, Cohu may be required to refinance all or part of its debt, sell important strategic assets at unfavorable prices, incur additional indebtedness or issue Cohu Common Stock or other equity securities. Cohu may not be able to, at any given time, refinance its debt, sell assets, incur additional indebtedness or issue equity securities on terms acceptable to Cohu, in amounts sufficient to meet Cohu’s needs or at all. If Cohu is able to raise additional funds through the issuance of equity securities, such issuance would also result in dilution to Cohu’s stockholders. Cohu’s inability to service its debt obligations or refinance its debt could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial conditions or operating results after the Merger. In addition, Cohu’s debt obligations may limit its ability to make required investments in capacity, technology or other areas of its business, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial conditions or operating results. 
as a result of the Merger and the issuance of shares of Cohu Common Stock in connection with the Merger, the total amount of cash required for Cohu to pay dividends at its current rate will increase;    
Cohu may not have enough cash to pay such dividends due to Cohu’s cash requirements, capital spending plans, cash flow or financial position;    
decisions on whether, when and in which amounts to make any future distributions will remain at all times entirely at the discretion of the Cohu Board, which reserves the right to change Cohu’s dividend practices at any time;    
Rising interest rates, which increase Cohu’s debt service obligations;    
Cohu may desire to retain cash to maintain or improve its credit ratings; and    
the amount of dividends that Cohu’s subsidiaries may distribute to Cohu may be subject to restrictions imposed by state or foreign law, restrictions that may be imposed by state or foreign regulators, and restrictions imposed by the terms of any current or future indebtedness that these subsidiaries may incur.    
Table of Contents  
difficulties and increased costs in connection with integration of the personnel, operations, technologies and products of acquired businesses;    
increasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our business;    
the cost and risk of having to potentially develop new and unfamiliar sales channels for acquired businesses;    
diversion of management’s attention from other operational matters;    
the potential loss of key employees, customers or suppliers of Cohu or acquired businesses;    
lack of synergy, or the inability to realize expected synergies, resulting from the acquisition;    
potential unknown liabilities associated with the acquired businesses;    
failure to commercialize purchased technology;    
the impairment of acquired intangible assets and goodwill that could result in significant charges to operating results in future periods; and    
challenges caused by distance, language and cultural differences.    
We may decide to finance future acquisitions and investments through a combination of borrowings, proceeds from equity or debt offerings and the use of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. If we finance acquisitions by issuing convertible debt or equity securities, our existing stockholders may be diluted which could affect the market price of our stock. 
costs and difficulties in staffing and managing international operations;    
legislative or regulatory requirements and potential changes in or interpretations of requirements in the United States and in the countries in which we manufacture or sell our products;    
trade restrictions, including treaty changes, sanctions and the suspension of export licenses;    
longer payment cycles;    
local political and economic conditions;    
Table of Contents  
Additionally, managing geographically dispersed operations presents difficult challenges associated with organizational alignment and infrastructure, communications and information technology, inventory control, customer relationship management, terrorist threats and related security matters and cultural diversities. If we are unsuccessful in managing such operations effectively, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. 
We use numerous vendors to supply parts, components and subassemblies for the manufacture of our products. It is not always possible to maintain multiple qualified suppliers for all of our parts, components and subassemblies. As a result, certain key parts may be available only from a single supplier (“sole source”) or a limited number of suppliers. In addition, suppliers may significantly raise prices or cease manufacturing certain components (with or without advance notice to us) that are difficult to replace without significant reengineering of our products. On occasion, we have experienced problems in obtaining adequate and reliable quantities of various parts and components from certain key or sole source suppliers. Our results of operations may be materially and adversely impacted if we do not receive sufficient parts to meet our requirements in a timely and cost effective manner. 
The semiconductor industry we serve is seasonal, volatile and unpredictable.  
Visibility into our markets is limited. The semiconductor equipment business is highly dependent on the overall strength of the semiconductor industry. Historically, the semiconductor industry has been seasonal with recurring periods of oversupply and excess capacity, which often have had a significant effect on the semiconductor industry’s demand for capital equipment, including equipment of the type we manufacture and market. We anticipate that the markets for newer generations of semiconductors and semiconductor equipment will also be subject to similar cycles and severe downturns. Any significant reductions in capital equipment investment by semiconductor integrated device manufacturers and test subcontractors will materially and adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. In addition, the seasonal, volatile and unpredictable nature of semiconductor equipment demand has in the past and may in the future expose us to significant excess and obsolete and lower of cost or net realizable value inventory write-offs and reserve requirements. In 2017, 2016 and 2015, we recorded pre-tax inventory-related charges of approximately $1.1 million, $1.1 million, and $2.4 million, respectively, primarily because of changes in customer forecasts. 
Our business requires capital to finance accounts receivable and product inventory that is not financed by trade creditors when our business is expanding. If cash from available sources is insufficient or cash is used for unanticipated needs, we may require additional capital sooner than anticipated. 
Table of Contents  
The semiconductor equipment industry is intensely competitive. 
Table of Contents  
Table of Contents  
The seasonal nature of the semiconductor equipment industry places enormous demands on our employees, operations and infrastructure.  
The loss of key personnel could adversely impact our business. 
Certain key personnel are critical to our business. Our future operating results depend substantially upon the continued service of our key personnel, many of whom are not bound by employment or non-competition agreements. Our future operating results also depend in significant part upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management, manufacturing, technical, engineering, marketing, sales and support personnel. Competition for qualified personnel, particularly those with technical skills, is intense, and we cannot ensure success in attracting or retaining qualified personnel. In addition, the cost of living in the San Diego, California, Kolbermoor, Germany, La Chaux-de-Fonds, Switzerland and Osaka, Japan areas, where the majority of our engineering personnel are located, is high and we have had difficulty in recruiting prospective employees from other locations. There may be only a limited number of persons with the requisite skills and relevant industry experience to serve in these positions and it may become increasingly difficult for us to hire personnel over time. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the loss of any of our key employees, by the failure of any key employee to perform in his or her current position, or by our inability to attract and retain skilled employees. 
Table of Contents  
A majority of our revenues are generated from exports to foreign countries, primarily in Asia, that are subject to economic and political instability and we compete against a number of Asian test handling equipment suppliers. 
Compliance with regulations may impact sales to foreign customers and impose costs. 
Certain products and services that we offer require compliance with U.S. and other foreign country export and other regulations. Compliance with complex U.S. and other foreign country laws and regulations that apply to our international sales activities increases our cost of doing business in international jurisdictions and could expose us or our employees to fines and penalties. These laws and regulations include import and export requirements, the U.S. State Department International Traffic in Arms Regulations (“ITAR”) and U.S. and other foreign country laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and damage to our reputation. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate our policies, or that our policies will be effective in preventing all potential violations. Any such violations could include prohibitions on our ability to offer our products and services to one or more countries, and could also materially damage our reputation, our brand, our international expansion efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees, our business and our operating results. Further, defending against claims of violations of these laws and regulations, even if we are successful, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, divert management’s attention and resources and cause us to incur significant expenses. 
Table of Contents  
The change in administration in the United States has resulted and may continue to result in significant changes in, and uncertainty with respect to, legislation, regulation and government policy. While it is not possible to predict whether and when any such additional changes will occur, changes at the local, state or federal level could impact fuel cell market adoption in the U.S. and the alternative energy technologies sector in the U.S., generally. Specific legislative and regulatory proposals that could have a material impact on us include, but are not limited to, infrastructure renewal programs; and modifications to international trade policy, such as approvals by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States; increased duties, tariffs or other restrictions; public company reporting requirements; environmental regulation and antitrust enforcement. 
Recent public policy changes and new trade tariffs and restrictions between the United States and China may, in our view, create an uncertain business environment. In particular, if tariffs or restrictions are imposed on our products or the products of our customers, there could be a negative impact on our operations and financial performance. For example, on June 15, 2018, the Office of the United States Trade Representative (the “USTR”) published a list of products covering 818 separate U.S. tariff lines valued at approximately $34 billion in 2018 trade values, imposing an additional duty of 25% on the listed product lines. The list generally focuses on products from industrial sectors that contribute to or benefit from the “Made in China 2025” industrial policy, which include industries such as aerospace, information and communications technology, robotics, industrial machinery, new materials, and automobiles. The USTR also announced a second set of 284 proposed tariff lines, which cover approximately $16 billion worth of imports from China, which will undergo further review in a public notice and comment process, including a public hearing. After completion of this process, USTR stated that it will issue a final determination on the products from this list that would be subject to the additional duties. We are continuing to evaluate the impact of the announced and other proposed tariffs on products that we import from China, and we may experience a material increase in the cost of our products, which may result in our products becoming less attractive relative to products offered by our competitors. In addition, future actions, retaliation or escalations by either the United States or China that affect trade relations may also impact our business, or that of our suppliers or customers, and we cannot provide any assurances as to whether such actions will occur or the form that they may take. To the extent that our sales or profitability are negatively affected by any such tariffs or other trade actions, our business and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. 
Table of Contents  
We recently implemented a new ERP system within our Switzerland and Malaysia operations, to conform these operations to the same ERP system used within our other principal business locations. We intend to continue to make investments and upgrades to our global ERP systems to support our business requirements. ERP implementations are complex and time-consuming projects that involve substantial expenditures on system software and implementation activities. If we do not effectively implement the ERP system or if the system does not operate as intended, it could adversely affect our financial reporting systems and our ability to produce financial reports and process transactions, the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting, and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 
The occurrence of natural disasters and geopolitical instability caused by terrorist attacks and other threats may adversely impact our operations and sales. 
Our Corporate headquarters is located in San Diego, California, our Asian sales and service headquarters is located in Singapore and the majority of our sales are made to destinations in Asia. In addition, we have manufacturing plants in Malaysia, Philippines and Japan. These regions are known for being vulnerable to natural disasters and other risks, such as earthquakes, tsunamis, fires and floods, and geopolitical risks, which at times have disrupted the local economies. For example, a significant earthquake or tsunami could materially affect operating results. We are not insured for most losses and business interruptions of this kind, or for geopolitical or terrorism impacts, and presently have limited redundant, multiple site capacity in the event of a disaster. In the event of such disaster, our business would materially suffer. 
seasonal, volatile and unpredictable nature of the semiconductor equipment industry;    
customer decisions to cancel orders or push out deliveries;    
inability to recognize revenue due to accounting requirements;    
inventory writedowns;    
unexpected expenses or cost overruns in the introduction and support of products;    
inability to deliver solutions as expected by our customers; and    
intangible and deferred tax asset writedowns.    
Table of Contents  
  Item 2.    Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.     
None. 
  Item 3.    Defaults Upon Senior Securities.     
None. 
  Item 4.    Mine Safety Disclosures    
  Item 5.    Other Information.    
None. 
Table of Contents  
Table of Contents  
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. 
