Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. 
Investment and Interest Rate Risk. 
At March 30, 2019, our investment portfolio included short-term fixed-income investment securities with a fair value of approximately $0.6 million. These securities are subject to interest rate risk and will likely decline in value if interest rates increase. Our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or we may suffer losses in principal if we are forced to sell securities that decline in market value due to changes in interest rates. As we classify our short-term securities as available-for-sale, no gains or losses are recognized due to changes in interest rates unless such securities are sold prior to maturity or declines in fair value are determined to be other-than-temporary. Due to the relatively short duration of our investment portfolio, an immediate ten percent change in interest rates would have no material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. 
Our long-term debt is carried at amortized cost and immaterial fluctuations in interest rates do not impact our consolidated financial statements. However, the fair value of our debt will generally fluctuate with movements of interest rates, increasing in periods of declining rates of interest and declining in periods of increasing rates of interest. As of March 30, 2019, we have approximately $348.3 million of long-term debt due under a Credit Facility that is subject to quarterly interest payments that are based on either a base rate plus a margin of up to 2.0% per annum, or the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus a margin of up to 3.0% per annum. The selection of the interest rate formula is at our discretion. The interest rate otherwise payable under the Credit Facility will be subject to increase by 2.0% per annum during the continuance of a payment default and may be subject to increase by 2.0% per annum with respect to the overdue principal amount of any loans outstanding and overdue interest payments and other overdue fees and amounts. At March 30, 2019, the interest rate in effect on these borrowings was 5.90%. 
Foreign Currency Exchange Risk. 
Based upon the current levels of net foreign assets, a hypothetical 10% devaluation of the U.S. Dollar as compared to these currencies as of March 30, 2019 would result in an approximate $46.7 million positive translation adjustment recorded in other comprehensive income within stockholders’ equity. Conversely, a hypothetical 10% appreciation of the U.S. Dollar as compared to these currencies as of March 30, 2019 would result in an approximate $46.7 million negative translation adjustment recorded in other comprehensive income within stockholders’ equity. 
Item 3. Defaults Upon Senior Securities.  
