Item 4. Controls and Procedures. 
It should be noted that any system of controls, however well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the system are met. In addition, the design of any control system is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events. Because of these and other inherent limitations of control systems, there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions, regardless of how remote. Our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives and our principal executive officer and principal financial officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective at the reasonable assurance level. 
Table of Contents  
  Item 1.    Legal Proceedings.     
The information set forth above under Note 6 contained in the "Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements" of this Form 10-Q is incorporated herein by reference. 
Item 1A. Risk Factors.  
Pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger Agreement”) dated as of May 7, 2018 among Cohu, Inc., a Delaware corporation (“Cohu”), Xcerra Corporation, a Massachusetts corporation (“Xcerra”), and Xavier Acquisition Corporation, a Delaware corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of Cohu (“Merger Sub”), Merger Sub merged with and into Xcerra (the “Merger”), with Xcerra surviving such merger as a wholly owned subsidiary of Cohu. The Merger was effective on October 1, 2018. 
difficulties entering new markets or manufacturing in new geographies where Cohu has no or limited direct prior experience;    
successfully managing relationships with Cohu and Xcerra’s combined supplier and customer base;    
coordinating and integrating independent research and development and engineering teams across technologies and product platforms to enhance product development while reducing costs;    
coordinating sales and marketing efforts to effectively position the combined company’s capabilities and the direction of product development;    
the increased scale and complexity of Cohu’s operations resulting from the Merger;    
Cohu’s ability to achieve the cost synergies contemplated by the proposed transaction within the expected time frame, and significant costs of integration and restructuring;    
retaining key employees of Cohu and Xcerra;    
obligations that Cohu will have to counterparties of Xcerra that arise as a result of the change in control of Xcerra;    
diversion of management’s attention to integration matters.    
Table of Contents  
Cohu believes that, relative to Cohu on a stand-alone basis, the Merger will actually be accretive to Cohu’s earnings per share. However, Cohu cannot give any assurance that the Merger will be accretive to Cohu’s earnings per share. In addition to the uncertainties that underlie any financial forecast, Cohu will account for the Merger as an acquisition under Accounting Standards Codification Topic 805, “Business Combinations,” or “ASC 805”. The total cost of the Merger will be allocated to the underlying identifiable net tangible and intangible assets and liabilities based on their respective estimated fair values. Until these allocations are completed, Cohu can only estimate the allocation of the acquisition price to the net assets acquired and the effect of the allocation on future results. That estimate could materially change. 
The Merger was financed in part by using Cohu’s and Xcerra’s cash on hand and the incurrence of indebtedness. In connection with the Merger, Cohu entered into a term loan facility, with an aggregate principal amount of $350.0 million (the “Debt Financing”). Cohu used approximately $178 million of Cohu’s and Xcerra’s cash on hand to complete the Merger. After completing the Merger and paying acquisition related costs, Cohu’s (including Xcerra's) estimated cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments as of October 1, 2018 were approximately $147.5 million. The use of cash on hand and indebtedness to finance the acquisition has reduced Cohu’s liquidity and could cause Cohu to place more reliance on cash generated from operations to pay principal and interest on Cohu’s debt, thereby reducing the availability of Cohu’s cash flow for working capital, dividend and capital expenditure needs or to pursue other potential strategic plans. The Debt Financing agreements contain certain negative covenants, including limitations on Cohu’s ability to incur additional liens and indebtedness or to pay dividends and make certain investments. Cohu’s ability to comply with these negative covenants may be affected by events beyond its control. The indebtedness and these negative covenants also has the effect, among other things, of limiting Cohu’s ability to obtain additional financing, if needed, limiting its flexibility in the conduct of its business and making Cohu more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse competitive and industry conditions. In addition, a breach of the negative covenants could result in an event of default with respect to the indebtedness, which, if not cured or waived, could result in the indebtedness becoming immediately due and payable and could have a material adverse effect on Cohu’s business, financial condition or operating results. 
Cohu’s ability to meet its expense and debt service obligations contained in the Debt Financing agreements will depend on Cohu’s future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors, including potential changes in industry conditions, industry supply and demand balance, customer preferences, the success of Cohu’s products and pressure from competitors. In addition, Cohu is subject to interest rate risks, and continuing increases in interest rates will increase Cohu’s debt service obligations. Should Cohu’s revenues decline after the Merger, Cohu may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to pay its debt service obligations when due. If Cohu is unable to meet its debt service obligations after the Merger or should Cohu fail to comply with the covenants contained in the agreements governing its indebtedness, Cohu may be required to refinance all or part of its debt, sell important strategic assets at unfavorable prices, incur additional indebtedness or issue Cohu Common Stock or other equity securities. Cohu may not be able to, at any given time, refinance its debt, sell assets, incur additional indebtedness or issue equity securities on terms acceptable to Cohu, in amounts sufficient to meet Cohu’s needs or at all. If Cohu is able to raise additional funds through the issuance of equity securities, such issuance would also result in dilution to Cohu’s stockholders. Cohu’s inability to service its debt obligations or refinance its debt could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial conditions or operating results after the Merger. In addition, Cohu’s debt obligations may limit its ability to make required investments in capacity, technology or other areas of its business, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial conditions or operating results.Furthermore, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act limits the deductibility of interest expense in a given year to 30% of adjusted taxable income, as defined. This may result in the inability of Cohu to utilize a substantial portion of its interest expense deductions. However, the Act permits indefinite carryforward of any disallowed business interest, subject to Internal Revenue Code section 382 limitations on utilization. 
Table of Contents  
The Merger was financed in part by the issuance of additional shares of our common stock to shareholders of Xcerra, comprised approximately 11.8 million shares of common stock, or approximately 29% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock immediately after completing the Merger. These issuances of additional shares of our common stock have diluted shareholders’ ownership interest in our company, and shareholders now have a proportionately reduced ownership and voting interest in our company as a result of completion of the Merger. 
as a result of the Merger and the issuance of shares of Cohu Common Stock in connection with the Merger, the total amount of cash required for Cohu to pay dividends at its current rate will increase;    
   ● Cohu’s credit agreement restricts payments of dividends under certain circumstances;   
Cohu may not have enough cash to pay such dividends due to Cohu’s cash requirements, capital spending plans, cash flow or financial position;    
decisions on whether, when and in which amounts to make any future distributions will remain at all times entirely at the discretion of the Cohu Board, which reserves the right to change Cohu’s dividend practices at any time;    
rising interest rates, which increase Cohu’s debt service obligations;    
Cohu may desire to retain cash to maintain or improve its credit ratings; and    
the amount of dividends that Cohu’s subsidiaries may distribute to Cohu may be subject to restrictions imposed by state or foreign law, restrictions that may be imposed by state or foreign regulators, and restrictions imposed by the terms of any current or future indebtedness that these subsidiaries may incur.    
Upon completion of the Merger, the Cohu Board added two new members selected from members of the Xcerra Board. There can be no assurance that the newly constituted Cohu Board will function effectively as a team and that there will not be any adverse effect on the combined company’s business as a result. 
The Xcerra division has relied on Spirox Corporation (“Spirox”) as its primary distribution channel for sales and service in China and Taiwan for its Semiconductor Test Solutions products, a region that represents a material portion of Xcerra’s revenues. Spirox has direct contact with Xcerra’s customers, and Spirox is obligated to satisfy all installation and service obligations for the Semiconductor Test Solutions products. After a thorough review of this arrangement, on October 12, 2018, we notified Spirox of our intention to terminate the Spirox distribution agreement, effective October 12, 2019. Our business and financial performance within the China and Taiwan region can be negatively impacted by many factors relating to Spirox, including if Spirox, for any reason, does not satisfy its obligations to customers in China and Taiwan or to us during the transition, Spirox is ineffective in its sales or service efforts or incurs difficulties in staffing and or training, if the distributor relationship between Xcerra and Spirox deteriorates during the transition, or if Cohu is delayed and otherwise fails to timely and adequately staff and fund sales and service resources in the region to replace those resources being provided by Spirox. 
difficulties and increased costs in connection with integration of the personnel, operations, technologies and products of acquired businesses;    
increasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our business;    
the cost and risk of having to potentially develop new and unfamiliar sales channels for acquired businesses;    
diversion of management’s attention from other operational matters;    
the potential loss of key employees, customers or suppliers of Cohu or acquired businesses;    
lack of synergy, or the inability to realize expected synergies, resulting from the acquisition;    
potential unknown liabilities associated with the acquired businesses;    
failure to commercialize purchased technology;    
the impairment of acquired intangible assets and goodwill that could result in significant charges to operating results in future periods; and    
challenges caused by distance, language and cultural differences.    
Table of Contents  
We may decide to finance future acquisitions and investments through a combination of borrowings, proceeds from equity or debt offerings and the use of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. If we finance acquisitions by issuing convertible debt or equity securities, our existing stockholders may be diluted which could affect the market price of our stock. 
costs and difficulties in staffing and managing international operations;    
legislative or regulatory requirements and potential changes in or interpretations of requirements in the United States and in the countries in which we manufacture or sell our products;    
trade restrictions, including treaty changes, sanctions and the suspension of export licenses;    
longer payment cycles;    
local political and economic conditions;    
Additionally, managing geographically dispersed operations presents difficult challenges associated with organizational alignment and infrastructure, communications and information technology, inventory control, customer relationship management, terrorist threats and related security matters and cultural diversities. If we are unsuccessful in managing such operations effectively, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. 
Table of Contents  
We use numerous vendors to supply parts, components and subassemblies for the manufacture of our products. It is not always possible to maintain multiple qualified suppliers for all of our parts, components and subassemblies. As a result, certain key parts may be available only from a single supplier (“sole source”) or a limited number of suppliers. In addition, suppliers may significantly raise prices or cease manufacturing certain components (with or without advance notice to us) that are difficult to replace without significant reengineering of our products. On occasion, we have experienced problems in obtaining adequate and reliable quantities of various parts and components from certain key or sole source suppliers. Our results of operations may be materially and adversely impacted if we do not receive sufficient parts to meet our requirements in a timely and cost-effective manner. 
The semiconductor industry we serve is seasonal, volatile and unpredictable.  
Visibility into our markets is limited. The semiconductor equipment business is highly dependent on the overall strength of the semiconductor industry. Historically, the semiconductor industry has been seasonal with recurring periods of oversupply and excess capacity, which often have had a significant effect on the semiconductor industry’s demand for capital equipment, including equipment of the type we manufacture and market. We anticipate that the markets for newer generations of semiconductors and semiconductor equipment will also be subject to similar cycles and severe downturns. Any significant reductions in capital equipment investment by semiconductor integrated device manufacturers and test subcontractors will materially and adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. In addition, the seasonal, volatile and unpredictable nature of semiconductor equipment demand has in the past and may in the future expose us to significant excess and obsolete and lower of cost or net realizable value inventory write-offs and reserve requirements. In 2017, 2016 and 2015, we recorded pre-tax inventory-related charges of approximately $1.1 million, $1.1 million, and $2.4 million, respectively, primarily because of changes in customer forecasts. More recently, in third quarter 2018, we saw slowness in the mobility market segment, which adversely impacted our third quarter 2018 sales, and fourth quarter 2018 sales guidance. 
Our business requires capital to finance accounts receivable and product inventory that is not financed by trade creditors when our business is expanding. If cash from available sources is insufficient or cash is used for unanticipated needs, we may require additional capital sooner than anticipated. 
The semiconductor equipment industry is intensely competitive. 
Table of Contents  
Table of Contents  
The seasonal nature of the semiconductor equipment industry places enormous demands on our employees, operations and infrastructure.  
The loss of key personnel could adversely impact our business. 
Certain key personnel are critical to our business. Our future operating results depend substantially upon the continued service of our key personnel, many of whom are not bound by employment or non-competition agreements. Our future operating results also depend in significant part upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management, manufacturing, technical, engineering, marketing, sales and support personnel. Competition for qualified personnel, particularly those with technical skills, is intense, and we cannot ensure success in attracting or retaining qualified personnel. In addition, the cost of living in the San Diego and Bay Area, California, Boston, Massachusetts, Rosenheim and Kolbermoor, Germany, La Chaux-de-Fonds, Switzerland and Osaka, Japan areas, where the majority of our engineering personnel are located, is high and we have had difficulty in recruiting prospective employees from other locations. There may be only a limited number of persons with the requisite skills and relevant industry experience to serve in these positions and it may become increasingly difficult for us to hire personnel over time. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the loss of any of our key employees, by the failure of any key employee to perform in his or her current position, or by our inability to attract and retain skilled employees. 
Table of Contents  
A majority of our revenues are generated from exports to foreign countries, primarily in Asia, that are subject to economic and political instability and we compete against a number of Asian test handling equipment suppliers. 
Compliance with regulations may impact sales to foreign customers and impose costs. 
Certain products and services that we offer require compliance with U.S. and other foreign country export and other regulations. Compliance with complex U.S. and other foreign country laws and regulations that apply to our international sales activities increases our cost of doing business in international jurisdictions and could expose us or our employees to fines and penalties. These laws and regulations include import and export requirements, the U.S. State Department International Traffic in Arms Regulations (“ITAR”) and U.S. and other foreign country laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and damage to our reputation. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate our policies, or that our policies will be effective in preventing all potential violations. Any such violations could include prohibitions on our ability to offer our products and services to one or more countries, and could also materially damage our reputation, our brand, our international expansion efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees, our business and our operating results. Further, defending against claims of violations of these laws and regulations, even if we are successful, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, divert management’s attention and resources and cause us to incur significant expenses. 
Table of Contents  
The change in administration in the United States has resulted and may continue to result in significant changes in, and uncertainty with respect to, legislation, regulation and government policy. While it is not possible to predict whether and when any such additional changes will occur, changes at the local, state or federal level could impact fuel cell market adoption in the U.S. and the alternative energy technologies sector in the U.S., generally. Specific legislative and regulatory proposals that could have a material impact on us include, but are not limited to, infrastructure renewal programs; and modifications to international trade policy, such as approvals by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States; increased duties, tariffs or other restrictions; public company reporting requirements; environmental regulation and antitrust enforcement. 
Table of Contents  
The occurrence of natural disasters and geopolitical instability caused by terrorist attacks and other threats may adversely impact our operations and sales. 
Our corporate headquarters is located in San Diego, California, our Asian sales and service headquarters is located in Singapore and the majority of our sales are made to destinations in Asia. In addition, we have manufacturing plants in Malaysia, Philippines and Japan. These regions are known for being vulnerable to natural disasters and other risks, such as earthquakes, tsunamis, fires and floods, and geopolitical risks, which at times have disrupted the local economies. For example, a significant earthquake or tsunami could materially affect operating results. We are not insured for most losses and business interruptions of this kind, or for geopolitical or terrorism impacts, and presently have limited redundant, multiple site capacity in the event of a disaster. In the event of such disaster, our business would materially suffer. 
seasonal, volatile and unpredictable nature of the semiconductor equipment industry;    
customer decisions to cancel orders or push out deliveries;    
inability to recognize revenue due to accounting requirements;    
inventory writedowns;    
unexpected expenses or cost overruns in the introduction and support of products;    
inability to deliver solutions as expected by our customers; and    
intangible and deferred tax asset writedowns.    
Table of Contents  
  Item 2.    Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.     
None. 
  Item 3.   Defaults Upon Senior Securities.     
None. 
  Item 4.   Mine Safety Disclosures    
  Item 5.   Other Information.     
None. 
Table of Contents  
Table of Contents  
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. 
