We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as otherwise required by law.The ASU is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of 2020 and allows for early adoption.
The Company's offerings range from discrete hardware and software products to integrated IT solutions such as mobility, security, data center optimization, cloud computing, virtualization and collaboration.
In such cases, certain pre-petition payments received by the Company could be considered preference items and subject to return to the bankruptcy administrator.
In addition, the Company is subject to indemnification claims under various contracts.
This operating lease is expected to commence in 2020 with a lease term of 16 years.
For equipment leases used in revenue generating activities, the Company will record a right-of-use asset and lease liability for leases with a term of 12 months or less.Net sales increased $444 million, or 10.6%, to $4,630 million for the three months ended June 30, 2019, compared to $4,186 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018.
The evaluation resulted in a revision to the allocation of depreciation and amortization expenses from Headquarters to our reportable segments, effective January 1, 2019.
As a percentage of Net sales, Non-GAAP operating income was 7.7% for both the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018.
For the definitions of Non-GAAP operating income, Non-GAAP income before income taxes and Non-GAAP net income and reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP measure, see "Results of Operations - Non-GAAP Financial Measure Reconciliations."
On an average daily sales basis, Public segment Net sales increased 11.5%.
Public segment Operating income increased primarily due to higher gross profit dollars, partially offset by higher sales payroll expenses.
Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance or financial position that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally included or excluded in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP.
Corporate segment Operating income was $292 million for the six months ended June 30, 2019, an increase of $29 million, or 11.2%, compared to $263 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018.
The decrease was primarily driven by further leveraging our inventory financing arrangements and borrowings under our revolving credit facilities, which were partially offset by our share repurchases and increasing our dividends per share during the six months ended June 30, 2019.
Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance or financial position that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally included or excluded in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP.