fls.txt
These statements also relate to our future prospects, developments and business strategies.
These statements also relate to our future prospects, developments and business strategies.


item1.txt
CDW Corporation ("Parent") is a Fortune 500 company with multi-national capabilities and a leading provider of integrated information technology ("IT") solutions to small, medium and large business, government, education and healthcare customers in the United States ("US"), the United Kingdom ("UK") and Canada.
This amount is reported as a financing activity in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows and as an increase to Accumulated Deficit in the Consolidated Statement of Shareholders' Equity for the six months ended June 30, 2018.
Except as noted above for the adoption of Topic 606, there have been no material changes to the Company's significant accounting policies and estimates during the six months ended June 30, 2018.
Fees of $4 million related to the Prior Revolving Loan were capitalized as deferred financing fees and are being amortized over the five-year term of the facility on a straight-line basis.
As the customer receives the benefit of the service each month, the Company recognizes the respective revenue on a gross basis as the Company is acting as a principal in the transaction.
For these transactions, the Company deems that control passes to the customer when the product is ready for delivery.
The accompanying unaudited interim Consolidated Financial Statements as of June 30, 2018 and for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 (the "Consolidated Financial Statements") have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") and the rules and regulations of the US Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") for interim financial statements.
For additional details regarding the accounting for bundled arrangements, see "Revenue Recognition for Bundled Arrangements" below.
These extended warranties are sold separately and provide the customer with a service in addition to assurance that the product will function as expected.
Effective January 1, 2018, the Company adopted the requirements of Topic 606 utilizing the full retrospective method as discussed in Note 2 (Recent Accounting Pronouncements).
For additional details regarding the accounting for bundled arrangements, see "Revenue Recognition for Bundled Arrangements" below.
As of June 30, 2018, an interest rate of 1.94% was in effect, which represents LIBOR plus a 1.40% margin.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Company also sells some of its products and services as part of bundled contract arrangements containing multiple deliverables, which may include a combination of products and services.


item2.txt
Small Business segment income from operations was $47 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018, an increase of $11 million, or 30.3%, compared to $36 million for the six months ended June 30, 2017.
Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance or financial position that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally included or excluded in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP.
EBITDA is defined as consolidated net income before interest expense, net, income tax expense, depreciation and amortization.
Non-GAAP measures used by management may differ from similar measures used by other companies, even when similar terms are used to identify such measures.
Growth was primarily driven by client device refresh, as well as ongoing success helping customers with solutions, including data center and software.
The increase in DSO was primarily driven by higher Net sales and related Accounts receivable for third-party services such as software as a service and warranties.
on DSO as the receivable is recognized on the Consolidated Balance Sheet on a gross basis while the corresponding sales amount in the Consolidated Statement of Operations is recorded on a net basis.
The dividend will be paid on September 10, 2018 to all stockholders of record as of the close of business on August 24, 2018.
Income tax expense was $57 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018, compared to $54 million for the same period of the prior year.
Corporate segment income from operations increased primarily due to higher gross profit dollars driven by higher sales.
The lower effective tax rate for the three months ended June 30, 2018 as compared to the same period of the prior year was primarily attributable to the reduction in the US federal statutory rate, partially offset by lower excess tax benefits on equity-based compensation and a higher effective net state income tax rate primarily due to the reduced US federal benefit.
Consolidated Net sales increased $294 million, or 7.6%, to $4,186 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018, compared to $3,892 million for the three months ended June 30, 2017.
Both operations had strong growth in local currency as we continued to take share in the local markets.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 6.


