fls.txt
The estimate of expected credit losses will require considerations of historical information, current information and reasonable and supportable forecasts.
We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as otherwise required by law.


item1.txt
IaaS solutions utilize third-party partners to enable customers to access data center functionality in a cloud-based solution, including storage, computing and networking.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), requiring lessees to recognize assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for the rights and obligations created by long-term leases and to disclose additional quantitative and qualitative information about leasing arrangements.
As of March 31, 2018, an interest rate of 1.98% was in effect, which represents LIBOR plus a 1.40% margin.
For service-type warranties, the Company is arranging for those services to be provided by the third-party and therefore is acting as an agent in the transaction and records revenue on a net basis at the point of sale.
The numerator for both basic and diluted earnings per share is Net income.
The Company uses derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to interest rate risk.
Effective January 1, 2018, the Company adopted the requirements of Topic 606 utilizing the full retrospective method as discussed in Note 2 (Recent Accounting Pronouncements).
The warranties are not sold separately and only provide assurance that products will conform with the manufacturer's specifications.
As of March 31, 2018, the Company had no outstanding borrowings under the CDW UK Revolving Credit Facility.
1.Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Borrowings under the Term Loan bear interest at either (i) the ABR plus a margin or (ii) LIBOR plus a margin, payable quarterly on the last day of each March, June, September and December.
1.Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Contract assets are comprised primarily of professional services with fixed fee arrangements.
Borrowings under the Term Loan bear interest at either (i) the ABR plus a margin or (ii) LIBOR plus a margin, payable quarterly on the last day of each March, June, September and December.
The Company generally does not enter into any long-term financing arrangements or payment plans with customers or contracts with customers that have non-cash consideration.


item2.txt
We provide our vendor partners with a cost-effective way to reach customers and deliver a consistent brand experience through our established end-market coverage, technical expertise and extensive customer access.
As a percentage of Net sales, Adjusted EBITDA was 7.8% for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 7.7% for the three months ended March 31, 2017.
To date, CDW UK is not seeing significant changes in the buying behavior of its customers even with the uncertainty related to the timing and terms of Brexit.
Excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, constant currency Net sales growth was 9.6%.
Public segment income from operations increased primarily due to higher Gross profit dollars as a result of sales volume.
Small Business segment Net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2018 increased by $36 million, or 12.2%, between periods.
The decrease was primarily driven by changes in Accounts payable-inventory financing, which resulted in a decrease in cash used in financing activities of $161 million, and by share repurchases during the three months ended March 31, 2018, which resulted in a decrease in cash used in financing activities of $66 million.
Income tax expense was $39 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018, compared to $16 million for the same period of the prior year.
Sales growth was primarily driven by client devices and video.
CDW Corporation ("Parent") is a Fortune 500 company and a leading provider of integrated information technology ("IT") solutions to small, medium and large business, and government, education and healthcare customers in the United States ("US"), the United Kingdom ("UK") and Canada.
For the definitions of Non-GAAP income before income taxes, Non-GAAP net income and Adjusted EBITDA and reconciliations to Net income, see "Results of Operations."
Additionally, Adjusted EBITDA is a measure in the credit agreement governing our Senior Secured Term Loan Facility ("Term Loan"), which is used to evaluate our ability to make certain investments, incur additional debt, and make restricted payments, such as dividends and share repurchases, as well as whether we are required to make additional principal prepayments on the Term Loan beyond the quarterly amortization payments.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
None.


