fls.txt
However, these words are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements.
We claim the protection of The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 for all forward-looking statements in this report.


item1.txt
The PSUs had a weighted-average grant-date fair value of $37.84 per unit.
The information was prepared on the same basis as the Consolidated Financial Statements.
IaaS solutions utilize third-party partners to enable customers to access data center functionality in a cloud-based solution, including storage, computing and networking.
For more information regarding the Company's performance obligations, see Note 1 (Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies).
The Company also incorporates insignificant credit valuation adjustments to appropriately reflect the respective counterparty's nonperformance risk in the fair value measurements.
On June 26, 2017, an aggregate of 997,450 Restricted Stock Units ("RSUs") under the 2013 Long-Term Incentive Plan vested.
The Company generally does not enter into any long-term financing arrangements or payment plans with customers or contracts with customers that have non-cash consideration.
In connection with this redemption, the Company recorded a loss on extinguishment of long-term debt of $43 million in the Consolidated Statement of Operations for the nine months ended September 30, 2017.
For service-type warranties, the Company is arranging for those services to be provided by the third-party and therefore is acting as an agent in the transaction and records revenue on a net basis at the point of sale.
The Company is required to pay quarterly principal installments of $4 million with the remaining principal amount payable on the maturity date of August 17, 2023.
The Company has entered into agreements with certain financial intermediaries to facilitate the purchase of inventory from various suppliers under certain terms and conditions, as described below.
This ASU introduces a new forward-looking approach, based on expected losses, to estimate credit losses on certain types of financial instruments, including trade receivables.
All guarantees by the Parent and the Guarantor Subsidiaries are and were joint and several, and full and unconditional; provided that guarantees by the Guarantor Subsidiaries are subject to certain customary release provisions contained in the indentures governing the 2023 Senior Notes, the 2024 Senior Notes and the 2025 Senior Notes.
The Company considers these service-type warranties to be separate performance obligations from the underlying product.
The PSUs had a weighted-average grant-date fair value of $24.40 per unit.


item2.txt
For the definitions of Non-GAAP income before income taxes, Non-GAAP net income and Adjusted EBITDA and reconciliations to Net income, see "Results of Operations."
This is particularly the case for business customers, as their purchases tend to reflect confidence in their business prospects, which are driven by their perceptions of business conditions.
This increase was primarily driven by the mix of Net sales and lower intangible asset amortization as a percentage of Net sales, partially offset by higher equity-based compensation expense as a percentage of Net sales.
Net sales in Other, which is comprised of results from our UK and Canadian operations, for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 increased $308 million, or 27.6%, compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2017.
Selling and administrative expenses increased $39 million, or 11.0%, to $391 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018, compared to $352 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017.
Total Net sales for the three months ended September 30, 2018 increased $440 million, or 11.2%, to $4,373 million, compared to $3,933 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017.
Non-GAAP income before income taxes, Non-GAAP net income, EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA margin and consolidated Net sales growth on a constant currency basis are considered non-GAAP financial measures.
Adjusted EBITDA, which is a measure defined in our credit agreements, means EBITDA adjusted for certain items, which are described in the tables below.
The information set forth in Note 2 (Recent Accounting Pronouncements) to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements is incorporated herein by reference.
Adjusted EBITDA margin is defined as Adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of Net sales.
CDW Corporation ("Parent") is a Fortune 500 company and a leading provider of integrated information technology ("IT") solutions to small, medium and large business, and government, education and healthcare customers in the United States ("US"), the United Kingdom ("UK") and Canada.
As a percentage of Net sales, Gross profit margin decreased 10 basis points to 16.5% for the nine months ended September 30, 2018.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
None.


