fls.txt
The forward-looking statements included in this report are made only as of the date hereof.
We claim the protection of The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 for all forward-looking statements in this report.


item1.txt
The Company's contract liabilities are reported in a net position on a contract-by-contract basis at the end of each reporting period.
For certain equipment leases, the Company applies a portfolio approach to account for the right-of-use asset and operating lease liability.
All intercompany transactions and accounts are eliminated in consolidation.
In determining the present value of future lease payments, the Company uses its incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at the commencement date.
For additional details, see Note 7 (Long-Term Debt).
The Company does not incur any interest expense associated with these agreements as balances are paid when they are due.
As of March 31, 2019, the Company has an additional operating lease commitment that has not yet commenced of $91 million.
The Company has operating leases primarily for real estate, data centers and equipment.
The CDW UK term loan agreement imposes restrictions on CDW UK's ability to transfer funds to the Company through the payment of dividends, repayment of intercompany loans, advances or subordinated debt that require, among other things, the maintenance of a minimum net leverage ratio.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The following table represents the total transaction price for the remaining performance obligations as of March 31, 2019 related to non-cancelable contracts longer than 12 months in duration that is expected to be recognized over future periods.


item2.txt
On an average daily sales basis, Corporate segment Net sales increased 12.6%.
Management uses these measures to evaluate period-over-period performance as management believes they provide a more comparable measure of the underlying business.
Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance or financial position that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally included or excluded in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP.
The increase in capital expenditures is primarily due to the timing of investments for improvements to our information technology systems.
As a percentage of Net sales, Non-GAAP operating income was 7.3% for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 7.2% for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
In addition to the impact of these services on DPO, DPO also increased due to the mix of payables with certain vendors that have longer payment terms.
Our liquidity and borrowing plans are established to align with our financial and strategic planning processes and ensure we have the necessary funding to meet our operating commitments, which primarily include the purchase of inventory, payroll and general expenses.
Both DSO and DPO are impacted by third party services such as software as a service and warranties.
These trends are driving customer adoption of solutions such as those delivered via cloud, software defined architectures and hybrid on-premise and off-premise combinations, as well as the evolution of the IT consumption model to more "as-a-service" offerings, including Device-as-a-Service ("DaaS") and managed services.
•Changes in spending policies, budget priorities and funding levels are a key factor influencing the purchasing levels of government, healthcare and education customers.
For additional details regarding our debt activities, see Note 7 (Long-Term Debt) to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements.
Small Business segment operating margin percentage increased 20 basis points to 6.9% for the three months ended March 31, 2019, from 6.7% for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
Excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, constant currency Net sales growth was 10.6%.
Other operating margin percentage increased 70 basis points to 4.8% for the three months ended March 31, 2019, from 4.1% for the three months ended March 31, 2018.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


part2.txt
None.


