fls.txt



item1.txt
The Company records adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed subsequent to the purchase price allocation period in the Company’s operating results in the period in which the adjustments are determined.
Included in the total number of assumed RSUs are 326,283 shares of the Company’s common stock for employees and outside directors that are part of the ESI Deferred Compensation plan.
In addition, the Company accrues dividend equivalents on the RSUs the Company assumed in the ESI Merger described in Note 15 above when dividends are declared by the Company’s Board of Directors.
Refer to Note 17 for revenue by reportable segment, geography and groupings of similar products.
The Company’s methodology for allocating the purchase price relating to purchase acquisitions is determined through established and generally accepted valuation techniques.
At the effective time of the ESI Merger and pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Merger Agreement, each share of ESI’s common stock that was issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the ESI Merger was converted into the right to receive $30.00 in cash, without interest and subject to deduction of any required withholding tax.
A portion of these fees have been accelerated in connection with the various debt prepayments during 2016, 2017 and 2018.
As a result of making these prepayments, the Company is no longer required to make any regularly scheduled principal payments on the 2016 Term Loan Facility until the maturity date of the loan.
These shares are in addition to the 18,000,000 shares of the Company’s common stock reserved for issuance under the Company’s 2014 Plan and previously registered under the Securities Act of 1933 on the Registration Statement on Form S-8.
The interim financial data as of March 31, 2019, and for the three months ended March 31, 2019 are unaudited; however, in the opinion of MKS, the interim data includes all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair statement of the results for the interim periods.
Effective portion classified in cost of products for the three March 31, 2019 and 2018.
In addition, under the terms of the Term Loan Facility and its ABL Facility, the Company may be restricted from paying dividends under certain circumstances.
 and Taiwanese currencies.
Should actual product failure rates, utilization levels, material usage, or supplier warranties on parts differ from the Company’s estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty liability would be required.
As of March 31, 2019, the total amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits, which excludes interest and penalties, was approximately $40,725.
The complaints sought injunctive relief, including to enjoin or rescind the Newport Merger Agreement, and an award of attorneys’ and other fees and costs, among other relief.
The Court granted a motion for class certification on September 27, 2018, appointing Mr. Pincon and Locals 302 and 612 of the International Union of Operating Engineers - Employers Construction Industry Retirement Trust as class representatives.
The Company has lease arrangements with lease and non-lease components, has elected to account for the lease and non-lease components as a single lease component, and has allocated all of the contract consideration to the lease component only.


item2.txt
We recorded restructuring costs during the three months ended March 31, 2019, which were primarily comprised of severance costs related to the consolidation of certain functions in Asia.
We recorded restructuring costs during the three months ended March 31, 2019, which were primarily comprised of severance costs related to the consolidation of certain functions in Asia.
A significant portion of our international net revenues was from Japan, Germany, China, South Korea and Israel.
Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased by $0.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, compared to the same period in the prior year.
We adopted this ASU during the first quarter of 2019 and the adoption of this ASU did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
As a result of making these prepayments, we are no longer required to make any regularly scheduled principal payments on the 2016 Term Loan Facility until the maturity date of the loan.
As a result of the prior asset-based facility being terminated, we wrote off $0.2 million of previously capitalized debt issuance costs.
At the effective time of the ESI Merger and pursuant to the terms and conditions of the merger agreement, each share of ESI’s common stock that was issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the ESI Merger was converted into the right to receive $30.00 in cash, without interest and subject to deduction of any required withholding tax.
We are required to make scheduled quarterly payments each equal to 0.25% of the original principal amount of the 2019 Incremental Term Loan Facility, with the balance due on February 1, 2026.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
On October 19, 2016, plaintiffs in the consolidated action filed an amended complaint captioned In re Newport Corporation Shareholder Litigation, Case No.
was filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of Oregon by alleged former stockholders of Electro Scientific Industries, Inc. (“ESI”) in connection with the acquisition of ESI by the Company.


