fls.txt



item1.txt
On July 3, 2018, Mr. Pincon filed an amended motion for class certification seeking to have purported class member Locals 302 and 612 of the International Union of Operating Engineers-Employers Construction Industry Retirement Trust appointed as an additional class representative.
The Newport directors answered the second amended complaint, denying the material allegations of the complaint and asserting defenses, on February 20, 2018.
On May 17, 2018, plaintiff Hubert C. Pincon filed a motion to certify a putative class of former Newport stockholders and appoint Mr. Pincon as the sole representative of the proposed class.
The complaint also alleged that the Company and Newport aided and abetted the named directors’ alleged breaches of their fiduciary duties.


item2.txt
We continuously monitor collections and payments from our customers and maintain a provision for estimated credit losses based upon our historical experience and any specific customer collection issues that we have identified.
The total commitment fees recognized in interest expense for both the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 were immaterial.
The semiconductor capital equipment industry is experiencing a moderation in capital spending in the near term and therefore we expect to see a similar moderation on our semiconductor revenue in the third quarter of 2018.
We must also pay customary letter of credit fees and agency fees.
As a result of making total prepayments of $425.0 million through June 30, 2018 and based on our Total Leverage Ratio, we are no longer required to make any scheduled quarterly principal payments until maturity of the loan.
These increase were primarily attributed to higher revenue volumes.
Our products are derived from our core competencies in pressure measurement and control, flow measurement and control, gas and vapor delivery, gas composition analysis, residual gas analysis, leak detection, control technology, ozone generation and delivery, power, reactive gas generation, vacuum technology, lasers, photonics, sub-micron positioning, vibration control, and optics.
The increases of $55.2 million and $113.7 million in total international net revenues for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively, compared to the same period in the prior year, were due to increases in net revenues in Japan, Germany, South Korea and China.
Extended warranty, service contracts, and repair services, which are transferred to the customer over time, are recorded as revenue as the services are performed.
On July 30, 2018, the our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.20 per share to be paid on September 7, 2018 to shareholders of record as of August 27, 2018.
For certain products or services and customer types, we require payment before the products or services are delivered to the customer.
In April 2017, we completed the sale of our Data Analytics Solutions business for total proceeds of $72.5 million, net of cash sold and recorded a pre-tax gain of $74.9 million.
These include, but are not limited to, industrial technologies, life and health sciences, and research and defense.
In November 2016, prior to the effectiveness of the Repricing Amendment 2, we prepaid an additional $40.0 million of principal under the Credit Agreement.
The separately priced contracts generally range from 12 to 60 months.
Sales, value add, and other taxes we collect concurrent with revenue-producing activities are excluded from revenue.
The provisional amounts associated with the Act were adjusted in the period ended June 30, 2018 and resulted in a decrease to our effective tax rate.
In December 2016, we entered into Amendment No.
Holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends when and if they are declared by our Board of Directors.
These increases were primarily attributed to increases in net service revenues from our semiconductor customers of $6.1 million and $14.9 million for the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2018, respectively.
Approximately 42% of our net revenues for both the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 were from other advanced manufacturing applications.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
On March 25, 2016, a second putative class action complaint captioned Hubert C. Pincon v. Newport Corp., et al., Case No.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
A-16-733154-C, was filed in the District Court, Clark County, Nevada on behalf of a putative class of stockholders of Newport for claims related to the Merger Agreement between the Company, Newport, and Merger Sub.
Incorporated by reference to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 6, 2014.


