fls.txt



item1.txt
Aggregate amortization expense related to acquired intangibles for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 was $11,190 and $12,501, respectively.
The adoption of this ASU did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
   (2)  The long-term investments presented in the table above do not include the Company’s minority interest investment in a private company, which is accounted for under the cost method.
For certain products or services and customer types, the Company requires payment before the products or services are delivered to the customer.
The Company adopted this ASU during the three month period ended March 31, 2018.
The Company adopted this ASU during the three month period ended March 31, 2018.
While there can be no assurance, the Company does not anticipate any material non-performance by any of these counterparties.
As a result of making total prepayments of $425,000 through March 31, 2018, the Company is no longer required to make any scheduled principal payments until maturity date of the loan.
On July 27, 2017, plaintiffs filed a second amended complaint, which names as defendants certain former directors of Newport.
In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-16, “Income Taxes (Topic 740)-Intra-Entity Transfer of Assets Other Than Inventory.” This standard requires that an entity recognize the income tax consequences of an intra-entity transfer of an asset other than inventory when the transfer occurs as opposed to when the assets have been sold to an outside party.
The complaints also alleged that the Company, Newport, and Merger Sub aided and abetted the directors’ alleged breaches of their fiduciary duties.
At March 31, 2018, the total compensation expense related to unvested stock-based awards granted to employees, officers and directors under the 2014 Plan that had not been recognized was $22,844, net of estimated forfeitures.
The Company sells separately-priced service contracts and extended warranty contracts related to certain of its products, especially its laser products.
The Company assumed various revolving lines of credit and a financing facility with the completion of the Newport Merger.
Under ASC 606, the Company expenses sales commissions when incurred because the amortization period would have been one year or less.
On April 11, 2018, the Company entered into Amendment No.
The Company hedges a portion of its forecasted foreign currency-denominated intercompany sales of inventory, over a maximum period of eighteen months, using forward foreign exchange contracts accounted for as cash-flow hedges related to Japanese, South Korean, British, Euro and Taiwanese currencies.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


item2.txt
In February 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-02, “Income Statement – Reporting Comprehensive Income (Topic 220).” The amendments in this standard allow a reclassification from accumulated other comprehensive income to retained earnings for stranded tax effects resulting from the Act.
We will continue to assess and disclose the impact that this ASU will have on our consolidated financial statements, disclosures and related controls, when known.
Net cash used in investing activities was $0.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 due to purchases of production-related equipment of $9.4 million, offset by net sales and maturities of short-term investments of $8.8 million.
We have incurred $1.2 million of costs in connection with the ABL Facility, which were capitalized and included in other assets in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and are being amortized to interest expense using the straight-line method over the contractual term of five years of the ABL Facility.
We incurred $1.4 million of acquisition and integration costs for the three months ended March 31, 2017 related to Newport Merger.
We have recorded a net increase to opening retained earnings of $1.8 million as of January 1, 2018 due to the cumulative impact of adopting ASC 606, with the impact primarily related to our service business and certain custom products.
The U.S. statute of limitations remains open for tax years 2014 through present.
These increases in working capital were partially offset by an increase in income taxes of $8.1 million and an increase in other current and non-current liabilities of $1.1 million.
The increase was primarily related to an increase of $1.3 million in compensation costs and related benefits and $0.4 million in project materials.
The net increase in working capital was primarily due to an increase in accounts receivable of $37.3 million and an increase in inventories of $28.2 million, related to an increase in business activities and a decrease in accrued compensation of $32.5 million, as year-end bonuses were paid.


item4.txt



part2.txt
 (1) Incorporated by reference to the Registration Statement on Form S-4 (File No.


