fls.txt



item1.txt
Effective portion classified in cost of products for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017.
The Company has used derivative instruments, such as forward foreign currency exchange contracts, to manage certain foreign currency exposure, and interest rate swaps to manage interest rate exposure.
The interim financial data as of September 30, 2018, and for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 are unaudited; however, in the opinion of MKS, the interim data includes all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair statement of the results for the interim periods.
On October 19, 2016, plaintiffs in the consolidated action filed an amended complaint captioned In re Newport Corporation Shareholder Litigation, Case No.
Net change in the fair value of the effective portion classified in OCI.
This audit commenced during the quarter ended June 30, 2018 and there have been no issues identified at this time.
The adoption of this ASU did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
These contracts include multiple promises that the Company evaluates to determine if the promises are separate performance obligations.
The Company assumed various revolving lines of credit and a financing facility with the completion of the Newport Merger.
Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.
The Company enters into derivative instruments with major investment grade financial institutions, for which no collateral is required.
Future adjustments are not expected to be material.
In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-01, “Business Combinations (Topic 805)-Clarifying the Definition of a Business.” This standard clarifies the definition of a business with the objective of adding guidance to assist entities with evaluating whether transactions should be accounted for as acquisitions (or disposals) of assets or businesses.
Immediately prior to the effectiveness of the Repricing Amendment 1, the Company prepaid $50,000 of principal under the Credit Agreement.
The total commitment fees recognized in interest expense for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 were immaterial.
One of the borrowing arrangements has an interest rate based on the Tokyo Interbank Offer Rate at the time of borrowing and the other has an interest rate based on the Japanese Short-Term Prime Lending Rate.
The net amount of existing gains as of September 30, 2018 that the Company expects to reclassify from OCI into earnings within the next twelve months is immaterial.


item2.txt
For certain products and services and customer types, we require payment before the products or services are delivered to, or performed for, the customer.
We are also required to make scheduled quarterly payments each equal to 0.25% of the principal amount of the term loan, less the amount of certain voluntary and mandatory repayments after such date, with the balance due on the seventh anniversary of the closing date.
In November 2016, prior to the effectiveness of the Repricing Amendment 2, we prepaid an additional $40.0 million of principal under the Credit Agreement.
We monitor these factors and timely adjust our estimates of the effective tax rate accordingly.
The corresponding revenues are recognized when or as the related performance obligations are satisfied, which are noted above.
We must also pay customary letter of credit fees and agency fees.
We do not have any financial partnerships with unconsolidated entities, such as entities often referred to as structured finance, special purpose entities or variable interest entities, which are often established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or for other contractually narrow or limited purposes.
In March 2017, we prepaid an additional $50.0 million of principal under the Credit Agreement.
The provisions of this ASU were applied to our December 31, 2017 financial statements.
To the extent the transaction price includes variable consideration, we estimate the amount of variable consideration that should be included in the transaction price utilizing either the expected value method or the most likely amount method depending on the method we expect to better predict the amount of consideration to which it will be entitled.
On October 29, 2018, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.20 per share to be paid on December 7, 2018 to shareholders of record as of November 26, 2018.


item4.txt



part2.txt
On June 22, 2017, the Court granted Defendants’ motion to dismiss and dismissed the amended complaint against all defendants but granted plaintiffs leave to amend.


