fls.txt



item1.txt
On May 1, 2019, the Court granted the defendants’ motion to strike plaintiffs’ jury demand and determined that the case will be tried by the Court, and not a jury.
right-of-use asset of $68,631, short-term lease liability of $20,670 and long-term lease liability of $51,141 were reflected on the balance sheet as of June 30, 2019.
If, on or prior to the date that is six months after the closing date of Amendment No.
5, the Company also effectuated certain amendments to the Credit Agreement which make certain of the negative covenants and other provisions less restrictive.
One of the Company’s Japanese subsidiaries has lines of credit and short-term borrowing arrangements with two financial institutions, which arrangements generally expire and are renewed at three-month intervals.
The Company measures its debt and equity investments at fair value.
Accordingly, those investments with contractual maturities greater than one year from the date of purchase are classified as short-term on the accompanying balance sheets.
The Company must also pay customary letter of credit fees and agency fees.
On June 11, 2018, plaintiff Dixon Chung was voluntarily dismissed from the litigation.
At the effective time of the ESI Merger and pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Merger Agreement, each share of ESI’s common stock that was issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the ESI Merger was converted into the right to receive $30.00 in cash, without interest and subject to deduction of any required withholding tax.
Under the acquisition method of accounting, the total estimated acquisition consideration is allocated to the acquired tangible and intangible assets and assumed liabilities of ESI based on their fair values as of the acquisition date.
Refer to Note 17 for revenue by reportable segment, geography and groupings of similar products.
A bench trial is scheduled for the first quarter of 2020.
As a result, during the measurement period, which may be up to one year from the acquisition date, the Company records adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed with a corresponding offset to goodwill to reflect additional information received about facts and circumstances which existed at the date of acquisition.
are paid separately from rent based on actual costs incurred.
Level 3 assets and liabilities include financial instruments whose value is determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies, or similar techniques, as well as instruments for which the determination of fair value requires significant management judgment or estimation.
The prior period error and subsequent correction were not material to prior or current interim and annual financial statements.


item2.txt
At the effective time of the ESI Merger and pursuant to the terms and conditions of the merger agreement, each share of ESI’s common stock that was issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the ESI Merger was converted into the right to receive $30.00 in cash, without interest and subject to deduction of any required withholding tax.
Under the Credit Agreement, we are required to prepay outstanding term loans under the 2016 Term Loan Facility and the 2019 Incremental Term Loan Facility, subject to certain exceptions, with portions of our annual excess cash flow as well as with the net cash proceeds of certain asset sales, certain casualty and condemnation events and the incurrence or issuance of certain debt.
sub-micron positioning, vibration control, optics and laser-based manufacturing solutions.
The prior period error and subsequent correction were not material to prior or current interim and annual financial statements.
We subsequently entered into four separate repricing amendments to the 2016 Term Loan Facility, which decreased the applicable margin for LIBOR borrowings from 4.0% to 1.75%, with a LIBOR rate floor of 0.75%.
Our research and development efforts are primarily focused on developing and improving our instruments, components, subsystems and process control solutions to improve process performance and productivity.
We expect that international net revenues will continue to represent a significant percentage of our total net revenues.
In calculating the present value of future lease payments, we utilize our incremental borrowing rates, which are the rates incurred to borrow on a collateralized basis over a similar term an amount equal to the lease payments in a similar economic environment.
Net cash used in investing activities was $16.5 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018 due to purchases of production-related equipment of $21.8 million, offset by net sales and maturities of short-term investments of $5.3 million.
Interest expense, net, increased by $8.8 million and $11.9 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, primarily due to interest expense related to Amendment No.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
On July 27, 2017, plaintiffs filed a second amended complaint containing substantially similar allegations but naming only Newport’s former directors as defendants.
In addition, China’s Ministry of Commerce announced in May 2019 that China will introduce an “unreliable entity list” under which non-Chinese entities that cut off suppliers to Chinese companies may be subject to government action.


