fls.txt



item1.txt
Amounts as of October 29, 2017 are derived from the October 29, 2017 audited consolidated financial statements.
On an ongoing basis, Applied evaluates its estimates, including those related to accounts receivable and sales allowances, fair values of financial instruments, inventories, intangible assets and goodwill, useful lives of intangible assets and property and equipment, fair values of share-based awards, and income taxes, among others.
In July 2015, the Financial Accounting Standard Board (FASB) issued authoritative guidance that requires inventory to be measured at the lower of cost and net realizable value instead of at lower of cost or market.
Applied adopted this authoritative guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 prospectively to measurement of inventory after the effective date.
The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on Applied’s consolidated financial statements.
In March 2016, the FASB issued authoritative guidance that simplifies several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including forfeitures, income tax, and classification on the statement of cash flows.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2018, Applied recognized excess tax benefits of $51 million in the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Operations.
In August 2017, the FASB issued authoritative guidance that modifies the recognition and presentation of hedge accounting to better align an entity’s risk management strategies and financial reporting for hedging relationships.
Applied is currently evaluating the effect of this new guidance on Applied’s consolidated financial statements.
In March 2017, the FASB issued authoritative guidance which requires companies to present the service cost component of net benefit cost in the same line items in which they report compensation cost.
The adoption of this guidance is only expected to result in reclassification of other components of net benefit costs outside of income from operations and is not expected to have a significant impact on Applied’s consolidated financial statements.
Goodwill Impairment.
In January 2017, the FASB issued authoritative guidance that simplifies the process required to test goodwill for impairment.
The adoption of this guidance is not expected to have a significant impact on Applied’s consolidated financial statements.
In January 2017, the FASB issued authoritative guidance that clarifies the definition of a business to help companies evaluate whether acquisition or disposal transactions should be accounted for as asset groups or as businesses.


item2.txt
The following management’s discussion and analysis is provided in addition to the accompanying consolidated condensed financial statements and notes to assist in understanding Applied’s results of operations and financial condition.
Applied provides manufacturing equipment, services and software to the semiconductor, display, and related industries.
Applied’s results are driven primarily by customer spending on capital equipment and services to support key technology transitions or to increase production volume in response to worldwide demand for semiconductors and displays.
During the first three months of fiscal 2018, healthy investment in semiconductor manufacturing equipment and services continued to be a strong driver of revenue.
Display equipment spending reflected continued investment in new technology and manufacturing equipment.
For the first quarter of fiscal 2018 compared to the same period in the prior year, net sales increased primarily due to increased customer investments in all segments, with majority of the increases resulting from investments in semiconductor equipment.
The Semiconductor Systems segment’s relative share of total net sales increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 compared to the same period in the prior year, and continued to represent the largest contributor of net sales.
The changes in net sales from customers in all regions in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 compared to the same period in the prior year primarily reflected changes in semiconductor equipment customer mix and spending in semiconductor spares and services.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
The amount and mix of capital equipment spending between different products and technologies can have a significant impact on the Company’s results of operations.
To meet rapidly changing demand in the industries it serves, Applied must accurately forecast demand and effectively manage its resources and production capacity across its businesses, and may incur unexpected or additional costs to align its business operations.
During periods of increasing demand for its products, Applied must have sufficient manufacturing capacity and inventory to meet customer demand; effectively manage its supply chain; attract, retain and motivate a sufficient number of qualified employees; and continue to control costs.
During periods of decreasing demand, Applied must reduce costs and align its cost structure with prevailing market conditions; effectively manage its supply chain; and motivate and retain key employees.
If Applied does not effectively manage these challenges during periods of changing demand, its business performance and results of operations may be adversely impacted.
Applied is exposed to risks associated with an uncertain global economy.


