fls.txt



item1.txt
The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements also include the balances of all voting interest entities in which Leidos has a controlling voting interest ("subsidiaries") and a variable interest entity ("VIE") in which Leidos is the primary beneficiary.
The consolidated balances of the Company’s VIE are not material to the Company’s unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for the periods presented.
Effective the beginning of fiscal 2019, certain contracts were reassigned between the Civil and Defense Solutions reportable segments (see "Note 18–Business Segments").
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued ASU 2016-02 ("ASC 842"), which supersedes the current lease guidance under Leases (Topic 840) and makes several changes, such as requiring an entity to recognize a right-of-use ("ROU") asset and corresponding lease obligation on the balance sheet, classified as financing or operating, as appropriate.
The update is effective for public companies for annual and interim reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018, and should be adopted under the modified retrospective approach.
As a result of the adoption of the new standard, the Company recorded $433 million and $486 million of ROU assets and lease liabilities, respectively, primarily due to its operating leases, to the Company's consolidated balance sheets.
The update is effective for public companies for annual and interim reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2019, and should be adopted using a modified retrospective approach, which applies a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the first reporting period in which the guidance is effective.
A prospective approach is required for debt securities for which an other-than-temporary impairment had been recognized before the effective date and loans and debt securities acquired with deteriorated credit quality.
The Company is evaluating the provisions of ASU 2016-13, in conjunction with ASU 2018-19 and ASU 2019-05, and their impact on the Company's consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows.
ROU assets represent the Company’s right to use an underlying asset over the lease term and lease liabilities represent its obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
ROU assets and lease liabilities are recorded on the consolidated balance sheet at lease commencement date based on the present value of the future minimum lease payments over the lease term.
An ROU asset is initially measured by the present value of the remaining lease payments, plus initial direct costs and prepaid lease payments, less any lease incentives received before commencement.
The remaining lease cost is allocated over the remaining lease term on a straight-line basis unless another systematic or rational basis is more representative of the pattern in which the underlying asset is expected to be used.
Variable lease payments that depend on an index or a rate are included in the determination of ROU assets and lease liabilities using the index or rate at the lease commencement date, whereas variable lease payments that do not depend on an index or rate are recorded as lease expense in the period incurred.
As a result of the adoption of ASC 842, the Company elected to not separate non-lease components from lease components and instead account for both components as a single lease, combining lease and non-lease components in revenue arrangements.
The related lease payments on the Company’s short-term facilities and equipment leases are recognized as expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Revenue recognized from performance obligations satisfied in previous periods was $15 million and $19 million for the quarter and six months ended June 28, 2019, respectively and $32 million and $66 million for the quarter and six months ended June 29, 2018, respectively.
On January 24, 2018, the Company entered into a lease agreement with its current lessor for office space in a building to be constructed to function as the Company's new corporate headquarters in Reston, Virginia.
The Company will occupy the space for an initial term of 148 months and rent expense will be $11 million for the first lease year, with an annual rent expense increase of 2.5%.


item2.txt
During the three and six months ended June 28, 2019, we generated approximately 87% of our total revenues from contracts with the U.S. government.
The increase in revenues in constant currency(1) for the three and six months ended June 28, 2019, was 8.4% and 7.2%, as compared to an actual increase in revenues of 7.9% and 6.7%, respectively.
The foreign currency impact was mainly attributable to adverse exchange rate movements in the British pound and Australian dollar when compared to the U.S. dollar.
The increase in revenues for the six months ended June 28, 2019, as compared to the six months ended June 29, 2018, was primarily attributable to new awards and a net increase in program volumes, partially offset by the completion of certain contracts, lower net profit write-ups in the current year and adverse exchange rate movements in the Australian dollar when compared to the U.S. dollar.
The increase in operating income for the three and six months ended June 28, 2019, as compared to the three and six months ended June 29, 2018, was primarily due to new awards, partially offset by lower net profit write-ups in the current year.
The increase in revenues for the six months ended June 28, 2019, as compared to the six months ended June 29, 2018, was primarily attributable to new awards and a net increase in program volumes, partially offset by the impact of the sale of our commercial cybersecurity business during the three months ended March 29, 2019, the completion of certain contracts, lower net profit write-ups in the current year and adverse exchange rate movements in the British pound when compared to the U.S. dollar.
The increase in operating income for the three and six months ended June 28, 2019, as compared to the three and six months ended June 29, 2018, was primarily due to new awards and lower amortization of intangibles, partially offset by lower net profit write-ups in the current year.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Controls and Procedures.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings.


