The accompanying interim consolidated financial statements have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") for interim financial reporting.
The consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2018, has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements at that date.
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in annual financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP have been omitted in accordance with the rules and regulations for interim reporting of the SEC.
Adopting ASU 2016-02 had a material impact on our consolidated balance sheet as of January 1, 2019, as we recognized $121.6 million of lease liabilities and $113.4 million of right-of-use ("ROU") assets for those leases classified as operating leases.
Except for the accounting policy added for leases below as a result of adopting ASU 2016-02, there have been no changes to our significant accounting policies described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, filed with the SEC on February 20, 2019, that have had a material impact on our consolidated financial statement.
ROU assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
Operating lease ROU assets and liabilities are recognized at the commencement date based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term.
As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments.We continue to progress in our early adopter program for our new Cloud Solution for Faith Communities with our first wave of early adopter customers now live on our Church Management Solution using it to run their day-to-day operations in close collaboration with our product teams.
3.Expand TAM into Near Adjacencies through Acquisitions and Product Investments In January 2019, we added another half-billion dollars in TAM when we completed our acquisition of YourCause, an industry leader in enterprise corporate social responsibility and employee engagement technology.
We continue to execute a comprehensive workplace and workforce strategy, driving towards a more scalable operating model that creates efficiency and consistency in how we execute through infrastructure investments, productivity initiatives, and organizational re-alignments.
The increase in total revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018, was primarily driven by growth in recurring revenue as we continue to see positive demand from customers across our portfolio of cloud-based solutions.
As expected, one-time services and other revenue declined $5.6 million during the three months ended March 31, 2019 due to our continued shift in focus towards selling cloud-based subscription solutions.
Increases in stock-based compensation of $2.6 million, employee severance of $2.5 million, rent expense of $1.6 million, restructuring costs of $1.1 million and amortization of intangible assets from business combinations of $1.1 million also negatively impacted income from operations during the three months ended March 31, 2019.
The increase in stock-based compensation expense was primarily driven by an increase in the grant date fair value of our annual equity awards granted to employees during the first quarter of 2019, when compared to the grant date fair value of the awards granted during the same period in 2018.
The increase in rent expense was primarily associated with the lease for our New Headquarters Facility in Charleston, South Carolina, which commenced in April 2018.
We anticipate a continued decrease in maintenance contract renewals as we transition our solution portfolio and maintenance customers from a perpetual license-based model to a cloud-based subscription delivery model.
In the long term, we also anticipate an increase in recurring subscription contract renewals as we continue focusing on innovation, quality and the integration of our cloud-based solutions, which we believe will provide value-adding capabilities to better address our customers' needs.