The accompanying interim consolidated financial statements have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") for interim financial reporting.
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in annual financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP have been omitted in accordance with the rules and regulations for interim reporting of the SEC.
In order to provide comparability between periods presented, those amounts of revenue have been combined within "recurring" revenue in the previously reported consolidated statements of comprehensive income to conform to presentation of the current period.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) ("ASU 2014-09"), which outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers.
ASU 2014-09 replaces most previous revenue recognition guidance in GAAP and requires the recognition of revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
Under the new standard, we defer all incremental commission and related fringe benefit costs to obtain a contract and amortize these costs in a manner that aligns with the expected period of benefit.
We utilized the 'portfolio approach' practical expedient in ASC 606-10-10-4, which allows entities to apply the guidance to a portfolio of contracts with similar characteristics because the effects on the financial statements of this approach would not differ materially from applying the guidance to individual contracts.
Except for the accounting policies for revenue recognition and deferred commissions (herein referred to as "costs of obtaining contracts") that were updated as a result of adopting ASU 2014-09, there have been no changes to our significant accounting policies described in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed with the SEC on February 20, 2018, that have had a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.Our portfolio is tailored to the unique needs of vertical markets, with solutions for fundraising and CRM, marketing, advocacy, peer-to-peer fundraising, corporate social responsibility, school management, ticketing, grantmaking, financial management, payment processing and analytics.
There is a concerted effort underway to optimize our portfolio of solutions and integrate powerful capabilities — such as built in data, analytics, artificial intelligence, payment processing and tailored user-specific experiences — to bring even greater value and performance to our customers.
This next generation cloud offering brings our proven strengths in fundraising and CRM, financial management, marketing, payments and analytics together with completely new church management capabilities, giving church leaders the ability to track gifts and tithing, assimilate new members, directly communicate with their congregations via multi-channel communication, enable members to make online and mobile contributions, manage small groups of volunteers, implement secure child check-in, conduct background checks, provide bulk tax statements and manage facilities.
Second, at our 2018 annual user conference, bbcon, we announced our new Cloud Solution for Higher Education with the introduction of a new Education Management portfolio along with stewardship management and guided fundraising capabilities tailored for higher education.
Third, we announced with Microsoft that we are investing in an Integrated Cloud Initiative for Nonprofits™, which will accelerate cloud innovation in areas that address critical market needs across the mission lifecycle of nonprofits.
As part of this initiative, we announced our first jointly-developed solution suite called Nonprofit Resource Management™, which is a breakthrough in helping nonprofits effectively source, track, distribute, and measure the impact of their resources across core business processes from managing the distribution of material goods to financial and human capital distribution.
We are making investments to increase the effectiveness of our sales organization, with a focus on enabling our sales teams with the processes and tools to accelerate our revenue growth and improve productivity.
Our sales account executives now lead with a total-solution selling strategy by vertical, focused on recurring revenue and driving more products per customer, higher ASP's, and increased customer retention over the long-term.
We continue to innovate and acquire solutions that create value for our customers, such as our new Cloud Solutions for Faith Communities and Higher Education and the Integrated Cloud Initiative for Nonprofits with Microsoft, as discussed above.
During the second quarter of 2018, we acquired Reeher, expanding our fundraising performance management capabilities with the intent to drive more effective fundraising and greater social good outcomes for our customers.
With the introduction of our new Cloud Solutions for Faith Communities and Higher Education and the Integrated Cloud Initiative for Nonprofits, we are now in a position to organically build and not just acquire incremental TAM.