These consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018.
Accordingly, this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q should be read in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018.
During the three and six month periods ended September 30, 2018, there were no significant changes to any critical accounting policies or to the methodology used in determining estimates including those related to investment securities, inventories, goodwill, intangible assets, property and equipment, and contingencies other than those discussed below and in Note 3 related to revenue recognition.
The Company applies this accounting policy election consistently to its sales.
These warranties cannot be purchased by the customer separately and accordingly these warranties are not considered to be separate performance obligations.
Payment terms for the Company’s sales are generally less than 90 days.
We evaluate gross versus net presentation on revenues from products purchased and resold in accordance with the revenue recognition criteria outlined in ASC 606.
Based on the evaluation of our resale arrangements with Kyocera, including consideration of the primary indicators set forth in ASC 606, we record revenue related to products purchased and resold on a gross basis.
The Company recognizes the estimated variable consideration to be received as revenue and records a related reduction to accounts receivable or as an accrued expense for the consideration not expected to be received, based upon its estimate of credits issued or products returned under the sales allowance programs described below.
Using the “portfolio approach,” we believe we have an adequate basis to assess the reasonableness and reliability of our estimates for each program.
We believe that these procedures enable us to make reliable estimates of future returns.
Rather, we believe our use of the “portfolio approach” provides an adequate basis to assess the reasonableness and reliability of our estimates for each program.
An asset is recorded for the estimated value of returned product.
We believe that these procedures enable us to make reliable estimates of future returns under the stock rotation program.
Ship-from-Stock and Debit (“ship and debit”) is a program designed to assist distributor customers in meeting competitive prices in the marketplace on sales to their end customers.
Ship and debit authorizations may cover current and future distributor activity for a specific part for sale to their customer.