fls.txt
Forward-looking statements reflect management’s expectations and are inherently uncertain.


item1.txt
All significant intercompany transactions and accounts have been eliminated.
These consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018.
Accordingly, this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q should be read in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018.
During the three month period ended June 30, 2018, there were no significant changes to any critical accounting policies or to the methodology used in determining estimates including those related to investment securities, inventories, goodwill, intangible assets, property and equipment, and contingencies other than those discussed below and in Note 3 related to revenue recognition.
The Company applies this accounting policy election consistently to its sales.
These warranties cannot be purchased by the customer separately and accordingly these warranties are not considered to be separate performance obligations.
Payment terms for the Company’s sales are generally less than 90 days.
We evaluate gross versus net presentation on revenues from products purchased and resold in accordance with the revenue recognition criteria outlined in ASC 606.
Based on the evaluation of our resale arrangements with Kyocera, including consideration of the primary indicators set forth in ASC 606, we record revenue related to products purchased and resold on a gross basis.
The Company recognizes the estimated variable consideration to be received as revenue and records a related reduction to accounts receivable or as an accrued expense for the consideration not expected to be received, based upon its estimate of credits issued or products returned under the sales allowance programs described below.
Using the “portfolio approach,” we believe we have an adequate basis to assess the reasonableness and reliability of our estimates for each program.
We believe that these procedures enable us to make reliable estimates of future returns.
Rather, we believe our use of the “portfolio approach” provides an adequate basis to assess the reasonableness and reliability of our estimates for each program.
An asset is recorded for the estimated value of returned product.
We believe that these procedures enable us to make reliable estimates of future returns under the stock rotation program.
Ship-from-Stock and Debit (“ship and debit”) is a program designed to assist distributor customers in meeting competitive prices in the marketplace on sales to their end customers.
We believe that these procedures enable us to make reliable estimates of future credits under the ship and debit program.
In 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers.” This guidance modifies how an entity will determine the measurement of revenue and timing of when it is recognized.
The Company adopted this guidance effective April 1, 2018, using the modified retrospective method, with no material impact on our results of operations.
In February 2016, FASB issued ASU 2016-02, “Leases.” This guidance changes the requirements for inclusion of certain right-of-use assets and the associated lease liabilities to be included in a statement of financial position.
Management is currently evaluating the impact this guidance will have on our consolidated financial statements.
The acquired intangible assets relate to the AB Electronics trade name, existing technology and customer relationships which are being amortized over one, eleven, and six years respectively.
The acquired intangible assets relate to the Ethertronics trade name, existing technology and customer relationships which are being amortized over ten, ten, and thirteen years, respectively.
We recognized revenue of $31,941 from AVX Antenna in the three month period ended June 30, 2018.
The impact of implementing this standard had no impact on our revenue recognition for the uncompleted contracts and accordingly no cumulative adjustment was made to the opening balance of retained earnings as of April 1, 2018.
Basic earnings per share are computed by dividing net earnings by the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding for the period.
Charges related to stock rotation, ship from stock and debit, sales returns, and sales discounts are reported as deductions from revenue.


