fls.txt
Forward-looking statements reflect management’s expectations and are inherently uncertain.


item1.txt
All significant intercompany transactions and accounts have been eliminated.
These consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended  March 31, 2017.
Accordingly, this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q should be read in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended  March 31, 2017.
During the three and nine month periods ended  December 31, 2017, there were no significant changes to any critical accounting policies or to the methodology used in determining estimates including those related to investment securities, revenue recognition, inventories, goodwill, intangible assets, property and equipment, and contingencies other than those discussed below related to income taxes.
The Act also resulted in an estimated net decrease in the valuation of U.S. net current and deferred tax assets and liabilities of $24.7 million.
This one-time tax is assessed at a 15.5% rate on all such earnings held in cash or liquid asset positions, and at an 8% rate on all other non-liquid asset positions.
Based on our current interpretation of the Act, we made reasonable estimates to record provisional adjustments during our fiscal third quarter ended  December 31, 2017.
In consideration of the Act, the Company has determined that it is no longer necessary to assert that cash and profits generated by our foreign subsidiaries will continue to be reinvested locally indefinitely.
In  February 2016, FASB issued ASU 2016-02, “Leases.” This guidance changes the requirements for inclusion of certain right-of-use assets and the associated lease liabilities to be included in a statement of financial position.
The standard became effective for the interim reporting period ending  June 30, 2017 and has not had a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
This ASU also removes the requirements for any reporting unit with a zero or negative carrying amount to perform a qualitative assessment, and if it fails that qualitative test to perform Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test.
Companies are to apply the standard on a prospective basis.
The adoption of this standard has not had a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
Management is currently evaluating the impact this guidance will have on our consolidated financial statements.
Therefore, final amounts recorded  may differ from information presented pending further review of the acquired business.
Basic earnings per share are computed by dividing net earnings by the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding for the period.
Charges related to stock rotation, ship from stock and debit, sales returns, and sales discounts are reported as deductions from revenue.
During the three and nine month periods ended  December 31, 2016 and 2017, there have been no transfers of assets or liabilities between levels within the fair value hierarchy.
We primarily use forward contracts, with maturities generally less than four months, designated as cash flow hedges, to protect against the foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in our forecasted transactions related to purchase commitments and sales, denominated in various currencies.
We also use derivatives not designated as hedging instruments to hedge foreign currency balance sheet exposures.
At  March 31, 2017 and  December 31, 2017, all of our forward contracts are valued using Level 2 measurements.
We have the ability and intent to hold these investments until maturity.
The amortized cost and estimated fair value of held-to-maturity investments at  December 31, 2017, by contractual maturity, are shown below.
The estimated fair value of these investments are based on valuation inputs that include benchmark yields, reported trades, broker and dealer quotes, issuer spreads, two-sided markets, benchmark securities, bids, offers, and reference data, which are Level 2 inputs in the fair value hierarchy.
Actual maturities  may differ from contractual maturities because issuers  may have the right to call or prepay obligations without call or prepayment penalties.
We have been identified by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”), state governmental agencies or other private parties as a potentially responsible party (“PRP”) under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”), or equivalent state or local laws, for clean-up and response costs associated with certain sites at which remediation is required with respect to prior contamination.
Because CERCLA or such state statutes authorize joint and several liability, the EPA or state regulatory authorities could seek to recover all clean-up costs from any one of the PRPs at a site despite the involvement of other PRPs.


