The impact to revenues for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 related to these adjustments was a decrease of $7.2 million and $28.6 million, respectively.
Public offering.
The Company’s healthcare solutions include claims adjudication, benefit management, care management, business intelligence and other ancillary services.
The increase in investments was the result of acquiring the net assets of DST in the second quarter of 2018.
The amount of revenues recognized in the period that was included in the opening deferred revenues balance was $33.1 million and $164.1 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively.
The Company also uses its own software applications to provide healthcare organizations a variety of medical and pharmacy benefit solutions to satisfy their information processing, quality of care, cost management concerns and payment integrity programs.
Under these arrangements, the client does not have the right to take possession of the software, rather, the Company agrees to provide access to its applications, remote use of its equipment to process transactions, access to client’s data stored on its equipment, and connectivity between its environment and the client’s computing systems.
The Company expects to receive distributions from this fund upon liquidation of the underlying investments over the next several years, however the exact timing of the distributions is unknown.
The Company also offers subscription-based on-demand software applications that are managed and hosted at the Company’s facilities.
The Company reported revenues of $3.7 million and $1,030.3 million from CACEIS and DST, respectively, from their respective acquisition dates through September 30, 2018.Transaction expenses are those costs that are directly related to our acquisition of DST.
We funded the acquisition with a combination of cash and $875.0 million in incremental term loan debt.
We had other income, net of $13.7 million and $14.8 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively.
Interest expense, net.
These facilities are discussed further in “Liquidity and Capital Resources”.
The increase in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash and cash equivalents is primarily due to proceeds received from our borrowings and common stock offering, the impact of restricted cash and cash equivalents held by DST as well as cash provided by operations and proceeds from stock option exercises.
The total investment in unconsolidated affiliates, including basis differences, is included in Investments on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, approximately 28% of our revenues were from clients located outside the United States.