The Company reported revenues of $0.8 million and $471.9 million from CACEIS and DST, respectively, from their respective acquisition dates through June 30, 2018. 
The Company recorded an increase to retained earnings of $65.8 million, or $47.9 million net of tax, as of January 1, 2018 due to the cumulative impact of adopting ASC 606, with the impact primarily related to the Company’s term license revenues. The impact to revenues for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 related to these adjustments was a decrease of $9.6 million and $21.4 million, respectively. 
During the quarter ended June 30, 2018, the Company recorded severance expense of approximately $54.3 million related to a reduction in headcount in connection with the integration efforts associated with the acquisition of DST. The majority of the positions eliminated in the reduction in force were effective in June 2018 and the reduction is expected to be complete by December 2018. Severance expense of $34.1 million was recorded to cost of software-enable services, $2.3 million was recorded to selling and marketing, $10.0 million to research and development and $7.9 million to general and administrative.  
The Company primarily offers software-enabled outsourcing services in which the Company utilizes its own software to offer comprehensive fund administration services for alternative investment managers, including fund manager services, transfer agency services, funds-of-funds services, tax processing and accounting. The Company also uses its own software applications to provide healthcare organizations a variety of medical and pharmacy benefit solutions to satisfy their information processing, quality of care, cost management concerns and payment integrity programs, while achieving compliance and improving operational efficiencies. The Company’s healthcare solutions include claims adjudication, benefit management, care management, business intelligence and other ancillary services. The Company also offers subscription-based on-demand software applications that are managed and hosted at the Company’s facilities. The software-enabled services arrangements provide an alternative for clients who do not wish to install, run and maintain complicated financial software. Under these arrangements, the client does not have the right to take possession of the software, rather, the Company agrees to provide access to its applications, remote use of its equipment to process transactions, access to client’s data stored on its equipment, and connectivity between its environment and the client’s computing systems.  
On July 31, 2018, the Company announced that it had entered into a definitive agreement wherein the Company will acquire Eze Software (“Eze”) from TPG Capital.  Under the terms of the agreement, the Company will purchase Eze in an all-cash transaction of $1.45 billion.  The transaction is expected to close by the fourth quarter of 2018 and is subject to clearances by the relevant regulatory authorities and other customary closing conditions. The Company plans to fund the acquisition with a combination of cash on hand and term loan debt. Eze provides investment management solutions designed to optimize operational and investment alpha running throughout the entire investment process. 
The Company generates revenues in the form of software license fees and related maintenance and services fees. License fees include perpetual license fees and term license fees which differ mainly in the duration over which the customer benefits from the software. Maintenance and services primarily consist of fees for maintenance services (including support and unspecified upgrades and enhancements when and if they are available) and to a lesser extent professional services which focus on both deployment and training the Company’s customers to fully leverage the use of its products although the user can benefit from the software without the Company’s assistance.  
Public offering. In April 2018, the Company completed a public offering of its common stock. The offering included 30,262,250 newly issued shares of common stock sold by the Company (including 3,947,250 shares of common stock sold pursuant to the underwriters’ option to purchase additional shares) at an offering price to the public of $47.50 per share for which the Company received total net proceeds of approximately $1.4 billion.  
The fair value of acquired accounts receivable balances for CACEIS and DST approximates the contractual amounts due from acquired customers, except for approximately $6.1 million of contractual amounts that are not expected to be collected as of the acquisition date and that were also reserved by CACEIS and DST. 
The Company applies a practical expedient to expense sales commissions as incurred when the amortization period would have been one year or less.  
receivables represent amounts due to the Company for pharmacy claims paid in advance of receiving client funding and for pharmacy claims processed for which client funding requests have not been made. 
Deferred revenues represent mostly unrecognized fees billed or collected for maintenance and professional services. Deferred revenues are recognized as (or when) the Company performs under the contract. Deferred revenues are recorded on a net basis with contract assets at the contract level. Accordingly, as of June 30, 2018, approximately $30.6 million of deferred revenue is presented net within contract assets arising from the same contracts. The amount of revenues recognized in the period that was included in the opening deferred revenues balance was $54.4 million and $131.0 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively. Three and Six Months Ended June 30, 2018 and 2017. The increase in total operating expenses in 2018 was primarily due to our acquisitions, which added expenses of $234.8 million and $235.1 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively. Included in these costs are charges of $20.2 million in 2018 related to the elimination of redundant positions within the acquired businesses. The unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation added $0.8 million and $2.6 million for the three and six month periods, respectively. Total operating expenses in both periods also increased due to higher legal-related expenses, higher personnel-related costs and higher stock-based compensation, partially offset by a decrease in bad debt expense. 
Acquisition of DST Systems, Inc. 
Interest expense, net. We had net interest expense of $70.2 million and $95.6 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively, compared to $26.3 million and $55.3 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2017, respectively. The increase in interest expense, net for the three- and six month periods reflects incremental borrowings in connection with our acquisition of DST and, to a lesser extent, higher average interest rates. These increases were partially offset by the impact of repayments of the Prior Credit Agreement. These facilities are discussed further in “Liquidity and Capital Resources”. 
Other income (expense), net. We had other income, net of $0.6 million and $1.1 million for the three and six months ended June, 30, 2018, respectively. We had other expense, net of $1.2 million and $1.3 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2017, respectively. Other income (expense), net consists primarily of foreign currency transaction losses in all periods as well as net investment gains and dividend income on our investments. 
Investing activities used net cash of $23.2 million for the six months ended June 30, 2017, primarily related to $19.4 million in capital expenditures and $5.6 million in capitalized software costs partially offset by cash received of $1.8 million related to purchase price adjustments for prior acquisitions. 
Net cash provided by operating activities was $195.2 million for the six months ended June 30, 2017. Cash provided by operating activities primarily resulted from net income of $99.3 million adjusted for non-cash items of $134.3 million, partially offset by changes in our working capital accounts (excluding the effect of acquisitions) totaling $38.4 million. The changes in our working capital accounts were driven by a decrease in accrued expenses, partially offset by an increase in accounts payable. The decrease in  
Investing activities used net cash of $4,648.8 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018, primarily related to cash paid for business acquisitions (net of cash acquired) of $4,622.3 million, $22.4 million in capital expenditures, $16.5 million in capitalized software development costs and $4.3 million in investments in securities, partially offset by proceeds from sales and maturities of investments of $11.7 million and proceeds from the sale of property and equipment of $4.7 million. The information regarding certain legal proceedings in which we are involved as set forth in Note 12 – Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q) is incorporated by reference into this Item 1. 