Risks Relating to Our Acquisition of DST Systems, Inc.
The impact to revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2018 related to these adjustments was a decrease of $11.8 million.
See also “-Risks Relating to Our Acquisition of DST Systems, Inc.”
Our management has broad discretion in the application of our cash resources.
The global and diverse nature of our operations means that these risks will continue to exist and additional investigations, proceedings and contingencies will arise from time to time.
Additionally, in the ordinary course of business we are subject to examinations by various authorities, including tax authorities.
The results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the expected results for any subsequent quarters or the full year.
DST is a global provider of specialized technology, strategic advisory and business operations outsourcing to the financial services and healthcare industries.
We are dependent on our senior management and their continued performance and productivity.We had other income, net of $0.4 million and other expense, net of less than $0.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Net cash provided by operating activities was $69.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
Net cash provided by operating activities was $57.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017.Risks Relating to Our Acquisition of DST Systems, Inc.
See also “-Risks Relating to Our Acquisition of DST Systems, Inc.”
The global and diverse nature of our operations means that these risks will continue to exist and additional investigations, proceedings and contingencies will arise from time to time.
Additionally, in the ordinary course of business we are subject to examinations by various authorities, including tax authorities.
We may not achieve the anticipated benefits from our acquisitions and may face difficulties in integrating our acquisitions.
We are dependent on our senior management and their continued performance and productivity.