One of the borrowing arrangements has an interest rate based on the Tokyo Interbank Offer Rate at the time of borrowing and the other has an interest rate based on the Japanese Short-Term Prime Lending Rate.
Through the Company’s acquisition accounting, the expense relating to these benefits was recognized in the combined entity’s financial statements.
Management has the ability, if necessary, to liquidate any of its investments in order to meet the Company’s liquidity needs in the next 12 months.
Incremental interest expense related to the Company’s 2019 Incremental Term Loan Facility, as defined and discussed in Note 11.
The prior period error and subsequent correction were not material to prior or current interim and annual financial statements.
The market participants usually are large commercial banks.
sub-micron positioning, vibration control, optics and laser-based manufacturing solutions.
Transfers between geographic areas are at tax transfer prices and have been eliminated from consolidated net revenues.
These shares will not become issued shares until their respective release dates.
On June 11, 2018, plaintiff Dixon Chung was voluntarily dismissed from the litigation.
On June 11, 2018, plaintiff Dixon Chung was voluntarily dismissed from the litigation.non-current liabilities of $0.3 million, offset by a decrease in trade accounts receivable of $27.1 million.
This decrease primarily related to the use of $406.0 million of cash to fund the payment of a portion of the purchase price for ESI on February 1, 2019.
Total international net revenues, including product and service, were $256.6 million and $495.8 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, compared to $291.3 million and $568.9 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively.
We believe that the continued investment in research and development and ongoing development of new products are essential to the expansion of our markets.
Many of our leases contain options to renew and extend lease terms, and options to terminate leases early.
Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $7.0 million for the three months ended June 30, 2019, compared to the same period in the prior year.
Gross profit as a percentage of net product revenues decreased by 4.1 and 4.6 percentage points for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, compared to the same periods in the prior year, primarily due lower revenue volumes and lower factory utilization, partially offset by favorable product mix.A bench trial is scheduled for the first quarter of 2020.