 ITEM 1A. 
sub-micron positioning, vibration control, optics and laser-based manufacturing solutions. The Company also provides services relating to the maintenance and repair of its products, installation services and training. The Company’s primary served markets include semiconductor, industrial technologies, life and health sciences, and research and defense. 
step-up amortization from the three and nine month periods ended September 30, 2019 and the addition of these items to the three and nine month periods ended September 30, 2018.   
ended September 30, 2018, respectively.
The Company believes the amount of goodwill relative to identifiable intangible assets relates to several factors, including broadening its position in key industrial end markets to complementary solutions, and leveraging component and systems expertise to provide robust solutions to meet customer evolving technology needs. 
The exclusion of debt issuance costs due to the modification of the 2019 Incremental Term Loan Facility from the three and nine month periods ended September 30, 2019 and the addition of this item to the three and nine month periods ended September 30, 2018.   
During the third quarter of 2019, the Company identified adjustments related to our unaudited pro forma disclosures that were reported during the first and second quarters of 2019. The impact of these adjustments has been revised for all periods presented above.    
out-of-period  error with respect to deferred tax assets related to limitations on the deduction of executive compensation in the amount of $5,023. This correction, which was recorded during the quarter ended June 30, 2019, but should have been recorded during the three months ended September 30, 2018, increased the Company’s effective tax rate for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 and the nine months ended September 30, 2019 by 9.8%, 7.5% and
Commencing with the completion of the first fiscal quarter ending after the closing of the ABL Facility, the applicable margin for borrowings thereunder is subject to upward or downward adjustment each fiscal quarter, based on the average historical excess availability during the preceding quarter. 
, respectively. The Company recognized interest expense of $3,719 and $13,071 for the three and nine months 
The Company is a global provider of instruments, subsystems and process control solutions that measure, monitor, deliver, analyze, power and control critical parameters of advanced manufacturing processes to improve process performance and productivity for its customers. The Company’s products are derived from its core competencies in pressure measurement and control, flow measurement and control, gas and vapor delivery, gas composition analysis, residual gas analysis, leak detection, control technology, ozone generation and delivery, power, reactive gas generation, vacuum technology, lasers, photonics, 
Electro Scientific Industries, Inc. 
February 2, 2026. If, on or prior to the date that is six months after the closing date of Amendment No. Many of our leases contain options to renew and extend lease terms, and options to terminate leases early. We do not recognize the 
non-current liabilities of $3.0 million. 
Cash and cash equivalents and short-term marketable investments totaled $475.1 million at September 30, 2019, compared to $718.2 million at December 31, 2018. This decrease primarily related to the use of $406.0 million of cash to fund the payment of a portion of the purchase price for ESI on February 1, 2019.  
sub-micron positioning, vibration control, optics and laser-based manufacturing solutions. We also provide services relating to the maintenance and repair of our products, installation services and training. Our primary served markets include semiconductor, industrial technologies, life and health sciences, research and defense. 
non-cash consideration related to the exchange of share-based awards of approximately $31 million for a total purchase consideration of approximately $1.063 billion. We funded the payment of the aggregate consideration with a combination of our available cash on hand and the proceeds from our senior secured term loan facility as described below. 
step-up adjustment to fair value from purchase accounting of $7.6 million. Excluding this adjustment, the gross margin for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 would have been 43.6% for this period. 