Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  


Forward-Looking Statements 

This report contains a number of forward-looking statements relative to our future plans and our expectations concerning our business and the industries we serve.
These forward-looking statements are based on assumptions about a number of important factors, and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from estimates contained in the forward-looking statements.
We undertake no duty to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Impact of New Revenue Accounting Pronouncement 

As discussed in Note 2 to our Financial Statements, in January 2018 we adopted ASU 606, a single comprehensive model which supersedes nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under U.S. GAAP, utilizing the cumulative effect approach.
Under the new guidance, revenue is recognized when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services.
In conjunction with the adoption of this ASU, we recorded a cumulative adjustment increasing beginning retained earnings (net of tax) by approximately $7 million, primarily related to contracts that we were required to defer revenue as we did not have VSOE for certain undelivered elements.
We do not anticipate ASU 606 will have a material impact on our revenues in 2018 and beyond, as the new revenue accounting rules under ASU 606 are fairly consistent with our current policies and guidelines based on the nature of our client contracts.
•  

Certain deferred contract costs that had been included in our client contracts and other current and non-current assets on our Balance Sheet were reclassified and presented separately as a non-current client contract asset, net of related amortization.
•  

Certain revenues and related costs previously recorded as software and services or maintenance on our Income Statement are now being classified as cloud and related solutions.
•  

Investments in client contracts on our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows have been reclassified to operating activities from investing activities.
We undertake no duty to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Management Overview of Quarterly Results 




Stock-based compensation included in the table above excludes amounts that have been recorded in restructuring and reorganization charges.
