Certain reclassifications have been made to previously reported condensed consolidated financial statements to conform to the current fiscal period presentation.
•FASB ASU No. 2016-16 "Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory," which eliminates a prior exception and now requires an entity to recognize the income tax consequences of an intra-entity transfer of an asset other than inventory (for example, intellectual property and property, plant and equipment) when the transfer occurs. We adopted this ASU on August 1, 2018. There was no material impact to our condensed consolidated financial statements (including any cumulative-effect adjustment) and disclosures upon such adoption.
During the six months ended January 31, 2019, the SEC issued Final Rule Release No. 33-10532 "Disclosure Update and Simplification," which revised certain of the SEC’s disclosure requirements that have become superseded in light of other SEC and or U.S. GAAP disclosure requirements. As a result of the final rule’s amendments, the SEC now requires a registrant to reconcile its changes in stockholders' equity for both the current and comparative interim and year-to-date periods, with subtotals. Our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity for the three and six months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018 reflect our adoption of this final rule.
•Over time - We recognize revenue using the over time method when there is a continuous transfer of control to the customer over the contractual period of performance. This generally occurs when we enter into a long-term contract relating to the design, development or manufacture of complex equipment or technology platforms to a buyer’s specification (or to provide services related to the performance of such contracts). Continuous transfer of control is typically supported by contract clauses which allow our customers to unilaterally terminate a contract for convenience, pay for costs incurred plus a reasonable profit and take control of work-in-process. Revenue recognized over time is generally based on the extent of progress toward completion of the related performance obligations. The selection of the method to measure progress requires judgment and is based on the nature of the products or services provided. In certain instances, typically for firm fixed-price contracts, we use the cost-to-cost measure because it best depicts the transfer of control to the customer which occurs as we incur costs on our contracts. Under the cost-to-cost measure, the extent of progress toward completion is measured based on the ratio of costs incurred to date to the total estimated costs at completion, including warranty costs. Revenues, including estimated fees or profits, are recorded proportionally as costs are incurred. Costs to fulfill generally include direct labor, materials, subcontractor costs, other direct costs and an allocation of indirect costs. When these contracts are modified, the additional goods or services are generally not distinct from those already provided. As a result, these modifications form part of an existing contract and we must update the transaction price and our measure of progress for the single performance obligation and recognize a cumulative catch-up to revenue and gross profits. 
For over time contracts using a cost-to-cost measure of progress, we have an estimate at completion ("EAC") process in which management reviews the progress and execution of our performance obligations. This EAC process requires management judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract revenue and costs, and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues. Since certain contracts extend over a long period of time, the impact of revisions in revenue and or cost estimates during the progress of work may impact current period earnings through a cumulative adjustment. Additionally, if the EAC process indicates a loss, a provision is made for the total anticipated loss in the period that it becomes evident. Contract revenue and cost estimates for significant contracts are generally reviewed and reassessed at least quarterly.
The cost-to-cost method is principally used to account for contracts in our command and control solutions and over-the-horizon microwave systems product lines and, to a lesser extent, certain location-based and messaging infrastructure contracts in our enterprise technology solutions product line. For service-based contracts in both our enterprise technology solutions and safety and security technology solutions product lines, we recognize revenue over time. These services are typically recognized as a series of services performed over the contract term using the straight-line method, or based on our customers’ actual usage of the networks and platforms which we provide.
Point in time accounting is principally applied to contracts in our satellite earth station product line (which includes satellite modems, traveling wave tube amplifiers ("TWTAs") and solid-state power amplifiers ("SSPAs")) and solid-state high-power narrow and broadband amplifiers. Point in time accounting is also applied to certain contracts in our command and control solutions product line. The contracts related to these product lines do not meet the requirements for over time revenue recognition because our customers cannot utilize the equipment for its intended purpose during any phase of our manufacturing process; customers do not simultaneously receive and or consume the benefits provided by our performance; customers do not control the asset (i.e., prior to delivery, customers cannot direct the use of the asset, sell or exchange the equipment, etc.); and, although many of our contracts have termination for convenience clauses and or an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date, our performance creates an asset with an alternative use through the point of delivery.
When identifying performance obligations, we consider whether there are multiple promises and how to account for them. In our contracts, multiple promises are separated if they are distinct, both individually and in the context of the contract. If multiple promises in a contract are highly interrelated or comprise a series of distinct services performed over time, they are combined into a single performance obligation. In some cases, we may also provide the customer with an additional service-type warranty, which we recognize as a separate performance obligation. Service-type warranties do not represent a significant portion of our consolidated net sales. When service-type warranties represent a separate performance obligation, the revenue is deferred and recognized ratably over the extended warranty period. Our contracts, from time-to-time, may also include options for additional goods and services. To-date, these options have not represented material rights to the customer as the pricing for them reflects standalone selling prices. As a result, we do not consider options we offer to be performance obligations for which we must allocate a portion of the transaction price. In many cases, we provide assurance-type warranty coverage for some of our products for a period of at least one year from the date of delivery. 
When identifying the transaction price, we typically utilize the contract's stated price as a starting point. The transaction price in certain arrangements may include estimated amounts of variable consideration, including award fees, incentive fees or other provisions that can either increase or decrease the transaction price. We estimate variable consideration as the amount to which we expect to be entitled, and we include estimated amounts in the transaction price to the extent it is probable that a significant reversal of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur when the estimation uncertainty is resolved. The estimation of this variable consideration and determination of whether to include estimated amounts in the transaction price are based largely on an assessment of our anticipated performance and all information (e.g., historical, current and forecasted) that is reasonably available to us. 
When allocating the contract’s transaction price, we consider each distinct performance obligation. For contracts with multiple performance obligations, we allocate the contract’s transaction price to each performance obligation using our best estimate of the standalone selling price of each distinct good or service in the contract. We determine standalone selling price based on the price at which the performance obligation is sold separately. If the standalone selling price is not observable through past transactions, we estimate the standalone selling price taking into account available information such as market conditions, including geographic or regional specific factors, competitive positioning, internal costs, profit objectives and internally approved pricing guidelines related to the performance obligations.
Sales to U.S. government customers include sales to the U.S. Department of Defense ("DoD"), intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as sales directly to or through prime contractors. Domestic sales include sales to commercial customers, as well as to U.S. state and local governments. Included in domestic sales, are sales to Verizon Communications Inc. ("Verizon"). Sales to Verizon were 10.1% of consolidated net sales for the three months ended January 31, 2019. Sales to Verizon were 10.5% and 11.1%, respectively, of consolidated net sales for the three and six months ended January 31, 2018. International sales include sales to U.S. domestic companies for inclusion in products that are sold to international customers. Except for the U.S., no individual country (including sales to U.S. domestic companies for inclusion in products that are sold to a foreign country) represented more than 10% of consolidated net sales for the three and six months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018.
The timing of revenue recognition, billings and collections results in receivables, unbilled receivables and contract liabilities on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. Under typical payment terms for our contracts accounted for over time, amounts are billed as work progresses in accordance with agreed-upon contractual terms, either at periodic intervals (e.g., monthly) or upon achievement of contractual milestones. For certain contracts with provisions that are intended to protect customers in the event we do not satisfy our performance obligations, billings occur subsequent to revenue recognition, resulting in what we have historically presented as unbilled receivables. Under ASC 606, unbilled receivables constitute contract assets. There were no material impairment losses recognized on contract assets during the six months ended January 31, 2019. On large long term contracts, and for contracts with international customers that do not do business with us regularly, payment terms typically require advanced payments and deposits. Under ASC 606, payments received from customers in excess of revenue recognized to-date results in a contract liability. These contract liabilities are not considered to represent a significant financing component of the contract because we believe these cash advances and deposits are generally used to meet working capital demands which can be higher in the earlier stages of a contract. Also, advanced payments and deposits provide us with some measure of assurance that the customer will perform on its obligations under the contract. Under the typical payment terms for our contracts accounted for at a point in time, costs are accumulated in inventory until the time of billing, which generally coincides with revenue recognition. Of the total contract liabilities at August 1, 2018, $24,606,000 was recognized as revenue during the six months ended January 31, 2019.
We recognize the incremental costs to obtain or fulfill a contract as an expense when incurred if the amortization period of the asset is one year or less. Incremental costs to obtain or fulfill contracts with an amortization period greater than one year were not material. 
As commissions payable to our internal sales and marketing employees or contractors are contingent upon multiple factors, such commissions are not considered direct costs to obtain or fulfill a contract with a customer and are expensed as incurred in selling, general and administrative expenses on our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. As for commissions payable to third party sales representatives related to large long-term contracts, we do consider these types of commissions both direct and incremental costs to obtain and fulfill such contracts. Therefore, such types of commissions are included in total estimated costs at completion for such contracts and expensed over time through cost of sales on our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
Using the fair value hierarchy described in FASB ASC 820 "Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures," we valued our cash and cash equivalents using Level 1 inputs that were based on quoted market prices.
The fair value of our Credit Facility that we entered into on October 31, 2018 approximates its carrying amount due to its variable interest rate and pricing grid that is dependent upon our leverage ratio as of the end of each fiscal quarter. We believe the fair value of our non-current portion of capital lease and other obligations, which currently has a blended interest rate of approximately 7.0%, would not be materially different than its carrying value as of January 31, 2019.
There were no purchases of our common stock during the three or six months ended January 31, 2019 or 2018. See Note (18) - "Stockholders’ Equity" for more information.
Weighted average stock options, RSUs and restricted stock outstanding of 1,678,000 and 1,812,000 for the three months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and 609,000 and 1,821,000 for the six months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, were not included in our diluted EPS calculation because their effect would have been anti-dilutive.
Our EPS calculations exclude 245,000 and 259,000 weighted average performance shares outstanding for the three months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and 240,000 and 211,000 for the six months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, as the performance conditions have not yet been satisfied. However, the compensation expense related to these awards is included in net income (the numerator) for EPS calculations for each respective period.
Unbilled receivables as of January 31, 2019 relate to contracts-in-progress for which revenue has been recognized, but for which we have not yet earned the right to bill the customer for work performed to-date. Under ASC 606, which we adopted on August 1, 2018 (see Note (4) - "Revenue"), unbilled receivables constitute contract assets. Management estimates that substantially all amounts not yet billed at January 31, 2019 will be billed and collected within one year. 
Of the unbilled receivables from commercial and international customers at January 31, 2019 and July 31, 2018, approximately $1,545,000 and $1,558,000, respectively, relates to a large over-the-horizon microwave systems contract with our large U.S. prime contractor customer (all of which related to our North African country end-customer).
As of January 31, 2019, the U.S. government (and its agencies) and Verizon represented 33.5% and 11.6%, respectively, of total accounts receivable. As of July 31, 2018, the U.S. government (and its agencies) and Verizon represented 30.9% and 10.1%, respectively, of total accounts receivable. 
As of January 31, 2019 and July 31, 2018, the amount of inventory directly related to long-term contracts (including contracts-in-progress) was $1,337,000 and $1,249,000, respectively, and the amount of inventory related to contracts from third party commercial customers who outsource their manufacturing to us was $1,641,000 and $1,310,000, respectively.
Accrued legal costs as of July 31, 2018 included $3,372,000 related to estimated costs associated with a certain TeleCommunication Systems, Inc. ("TCS") intellectual property matter. During the three and six months ended January 31, 2019, this matter was favorably resolved. As a result, we reduced such accrued legal costs and recorded a $3,204,000 benefit in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations. See Note (19) - "Legal Proceedings and Other Matters" for additional information.
Accrued contract costs represent direct and indirect costs on contracts as well as estimates of amounts owed for invoices not yet received from vendors or reflected in accounts payable. 
Accrued warranty obligations as of January 31, 2019 relate to estimated liabilities for assurance-type warranty coverage that we provide to our customers. We generally provide warranty coverage for some of our products for a period of at least one year from the date of delivery. We record a liability for estimated warranty expense based on historical claims, product failure rates, a consideration of contractual obligations, future costs to resolve software issues and other factors. Some of our product warranties are provided under long-term contracts, the costs of which are incorporated into our estimates of total contract costs. 
During the three months ended October 31, 2018, we took steps to improve our future operating results and successfully consolidated our Government Solutions segment’s manufacturing facility located in Tampa, Florida with another facility that we maintain in Orlando, Florida. In doing so, we accrued $1,373,000 of facility exit costs, which were recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses on our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. 
During the three and six months ended January 31, 2019, we made cash payments of $181,000 related to such facility exit cost accrual. As of January 31, 2019, the remaining estimated facility exit costs amounted to $1,192,000, of which $811,000 and $381,000, respectively, was included in "accrued expenses and other current liabilities" and "other liabilities (non-current)" on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. To-date, we have incurred an immaterial amount of severance and retention costs related to our Florida facilities consolidation.
On October 31, 2018, we entered into a First Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the "Credit Facility") with a syndicate of lenders, replacing our prior Credit Agreement dated as of February 23, 2016 (as amended by that certain First Amendment, dated as of June 6, 2017 (the "Prior Credit Facility")). In connection with the establishment of our new Credit Facility, during the three months ended October 31, 2018, we wrote-off $3,217,000 of deferred financing costs primarily related to the Term Loan Facility portion of our Prior Credit Facility and capitalized deferred financing costs of $1,812,000 related to the new Credit Facility.
The proceeds of the new Credit Facility were used, in part, to repay in full the outstanding borrowings under the Prior Credit Facility, and additional proceeds of the Credit Facility are expected to be used by us for working capital and other general corporate purposes. As of January 31, 2019, the amount outstanding under our Credit Facility was $174,500,000, which is reflected in the non-current portion of long-term debt on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. At January 31, 2019, we had $2,331,000 of standby letters of credit outstanding under our Credit Facility related to guarantees of future performance on certain customer contracts and no outstanding commercial letters of credit. During the three months ended January 31, 2019, we had outstanding balances under the new Credit Facility ranging from $160,000,000 to $174,500,000.
As of January 31, 2019, total net deferred financing costs related to the Credit Facility were $3,495,000 and are being amortized over the term of our Credit Facility through October 31, 2023.
As of January 31, 2019, our Secured Leverage Ratio was 1.85x TTM Adjusted EBITDA compared to the maximum allowable Secured Leverage Ratio of 3.75x TTM Adjusted EBITDA. Our Interest Expense Coverage Ratio as of January 31, 2019 was 12.16x TTM Adjusted EBITDA compared to the Minimum Interest Expense Coverage Ratio of 3.25x TTM Adjusted EBITDA. Given our expected future business performance, we anticipate maintaining compliance with the terms and financial covenants in our Credit Facility for the foreseeable future.
The obligations under the Credit Facility are guaranteed by certain of our domestic subsidiaries (the "Guarantors"). As collateral security under the Credit Facility and the guarantees thereof, we and the Guarantors have granted to the administrative agent, for the benefit of the lenders, a lien on, and first priority security interest in, substantially all of our tangible and intangible assets.
On December 6, 2018, we entered into the first amendment to the Credit Facility. The purpose of the amendment is to provide for a mechanism to replace the LIBO Rate for Eurodollar borrowings with an alternative benchmark interest rate, should the LIBO Rate generally become unavailable in the future on an other-than-temporary basis.
Capitalized terms used but not defined herein have the meanings set forth for such terms in the Credit Facility and the Prior Credit Facility, which have been documented and filed with the SEC.
We lease certain equipment under capital leases. As of January 31, 2019 and July 31, 2018, the net book value of the leased assets which collateralize the capital lease and other obligations was $1,542,000 and $2,547,000, respectively, and consisted primarily of machinery and equipment. Depreciation of leased assets is included in depreciation expense.
As of January 31, 2019, our capital lease and other obligations reflect a blended interest rate of approximately 7.0%. Our capital leases generally contain provisions whereby we can purchase the equipment at the end of the lease for a one dollar buyout.
ESPP stock-based compensation expense primarily relates to the 15% discount offered to participants in the ESPP. During the six months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018, we recorded benefits of $130,000 and $62,000, respectively, which primarily represents the recoupment of certain share units.
During the six months ended January 31, 2019, at the election of certain holders of vested stock options, 72,830 stock options were net settled upon exercise. As a result, 9,345 net shares of our common stock were issued during the six months ended January 31, 2019 after reduction of shares retained to satisfy the exercise price and minimum statutory tax withholding requirements. 
The performance shares granted to employees since fiscal 2014 principally vest over a three-year performance period, if pre-established performance goals are attained or as specified pursuant to the Plan and related agreements. As of January 31, 2019, the number of outstanding performance shares included in the above table, and the related compensation expense prior to consideration of estimated pre-vesting forfeitures, assume achievement of the pre-established goals at a target level. 
RSUs and restricted stock granted to non-employee directors have a vesting period of three years and are convertible into shares of our common stock generally at the time of termination, on a one-for-one basis for no cash consideration, or earlier under certain circumstances. RSUs granted to employees have a vesting period of five years and are convertible into shares of our common stock, generally at the time of vesting, on a one-for-one basis for no cash consideration. 
Share units granted prior to July 31, 2017 were vested when issued and are convertible into shares of our common stock, generally at the time of termination, on a one-for-one basis for no cash consideration, or earlier under certain circumstances. Share units granted on or after July 31, 2017 were granted to certain employees in lieu of non-equity incentive compensation and are convertible into shares of our common stock on the one-year anniversary of the respective grant date. Cumulatively through January 31, 2019, 270,979 share units granted have been settled. 
The fair value of performance shares, RSUs, restricted stock and share units is determined using the closing market price of our common stock on the date of grant, less the present value of any estimated future dividend equivalents such awards are not entitled to receive and an applicable estimated discount for post vesting restrictions. RSUs, performance shares and restricted stock granted since fiscal 2013 are entitled to dividend equivalents unless forfeited before vesting occurs. Share units granted since fiscal 2014 are entitled to dividend equivalents while the underlying shares are unissued. 
Dividend equivalents are subject to forfeiture, similar to the terms of the underlying stock-based awards, and are payable in cash generally at the time of settlement of the underlying shares into shares of our common stock. During the three and six months ended January 31, 2019, we accrued $84,000 and $166,000, respectively, of dividend equivalents (net of forfeitures) and paid out $1,000 and $260,000, respectively. Accrued dividend equivalents were recorded as a reduction to retained earnings. As of January 31, 2019 and July 31, 2018, accrued dividend equivalents were $619,000 and $713,000, respectively. 
Reportable operating segments are determined based on Comtech’s management approach. The management approach, as defined by FASB ASC 280 "Segment Reporting" is based on the way that the CODM organizes the segments within an enterprise for making decisions about resources to be allocated and assessing their performance. Our CODM, for purposes of FASB ASC 280, is our Chief Executive Officer and President.
Our Commercial Solutions segment serves commercial customers and smaller government customers, such as state and local governments, that require advanced communication technologies to meet their needs. This segment also serves certain large government customers (including the U.S. government) that have requirements for off-the-shelf commercial equipment. We believe this segment is a leading provider of satellite communications (such as satellite earth station modems and TWTAs), public safety systems (such as NG911 technologies) and enterprise application technologies (such as messaging and trusted location-based technologies).
Our Government Solutions segment serves large government end-users (including those of foreign countries) that require mission-critical technologies and systems. Government solutions products include command and control applications (such as the design, installation and operation of data networks that integrate computing and communications, including both satellite and terrestrial links), ongoing network operation and management support services (including project management and fielding and maintenance solutions related to satellite ground terminals), troposcatter communications (such as digital troposcatter multiplexers, digital over-the-horizon modems, troposcatter systems and frequency converter systems) and RF power and switching technologies (such as solid-state high-power broadband amplifiers, enhanced position location reporting system (commonly known as "EPLRS") amplifier assemblies, identification friend or foe ("IFF") amplifiers and amplifiers used in the counteraction of improvised explosive devices).
During the three months ended October 31, 2018, we exited our Government Solutions segment's manufacturing facility located in Tampa, Florida and recorded a related charge of $1,373,000 in selling, general and administrative expenses on our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. See Note (10) - "Cost Reduction Actions."
During the second quarter of fiscal 2019, we began an evaluation and repositioning of our enterprise technology products in order to focus on providing higher margin solution offerings. As such, we have ceased offering certain solutions and do not intend to renew certain contracts. In connection with our ongoing repositioning, we recorded $3,886,000 of estimated contract settlement costs in our Commercial Solutions segment during the three and six months ended January 31, 2019.
Unallocated expenses result from corporate expenses such as executive compensation, accounting, legal and other regulatory compliance related costs and also includes all of our amortization of stock-based compensation. During the three and six months ended January 31, 2019, unallocated expenses also include $1,778,000 and $2,908,000, respectively, of acquisition plan expenses primarily related to our acquisition of Solacom and our efforts to acquire another small but growing technology solutions company which we believe will further complement our product offerings. See Note (2) - "Solacom Acquisition - Subsequent Event" for further information. There is no certainty that our acquisition plan efforts will be successful. In addition, offsetting unallocated expenses for the three and six months ended January 31, 2019 is a $3,204,000 benefit as a result of a favorable ruling issued by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit related to a legacy TCS intellectual property matter. See Note (19) - "Legal Proceedings and Other Matters" for further information.
Interest expenses in the tables above relate to our Prior Credit Facility and new Credit Facility and includes amortization of deferred financing costs. In addition, during the three months ended October 31, 2018, we recorded a $3,217,000 loss from the write-off of deferred financing costs primarily related to the Term Loan Facility portion of our Prior Credit Facility. See Note (11) - "Credit Facility" for further discussion.
Intersegment sales for the three months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018 by the Commercial Solutions segment to the Government Solutions segment were $4,562,000 and $2,328,000, respectively. Intersegment sales for the six months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018 by the Commercial Solutions segment to the Government Solutions segment were $13,102,000 and $4,949,000, respectively. There were nominal sales by the Government Solutions segment to the Commercial Solutions segment for these periods. All intersegment sales are eliminated in consolidation and are excluded from the tables above.
Unallocated assets at January 31, 2019 consist principally of cash and cash equivalents, income taxes receivable, corporate property, plant and equipment and deferred financing costs. Substantially all of our long-lived assets are located in the U.S. 
As a result of our acquisition of Solacom in February 2019, we anticipate an increase in goodwill for our Commercial Solutions segment. Such increase is not yet reflected in the above table. See Note (2) - "Solacom Acquisition - Subsequent Event" for further information.
In accordance with FASB ASC 350 "Intangibles - Goodwill and Other," we perform a goodwill impairment analysis at least annually (in the first quarter of each fiscal year), unless indicators of impairment exist in interim periods. If we fail the quantitative assessment of goodwill impairment ("quantitative assessment"), pursuant to our adoption of FASB ASU No. 2017-04 in fiscal 2017, we would be required to recognize an impairment loss equal to the amount that a reporting unit's carrying value exceeded its fair value; however, any loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.
On August 1, 2018 (the first day of our fiscal 2019), we performed our annual quantitative assessment using market participant assumptions to determine if the fair value of each of our reporting units with goodwill exceeded its carrying value. In making this assessment, we considered, among other things, expectations of projected net sales and cash flows, assumptions impacting the weighted average cost of capital, trends in trading multiples of comparable companies, changes in our stock price and changes in the carrying values of our reporting units with goodwill. We also considered overall business conditions.
In performing the quantitative assessment, we estimated the fair value of each of our reporting units using a combination of the income and market approaches. The income approach, also known as the discounted cash flow ("DCF") method, utilizes the present value of cash flows to estimate fair value. The future cash flows for our reporting units were projected based on our estimates, at that time, of future revenues, operating income and other factors (such as working capital and capital expenditures). For purposes of conducting our impairment analysis, we assumed revenue growth rates and cash flow projections that are below our actual long-term expectations. The discount rates used in our DCF method were based on a weighted-average cost of capital ("WACC") determined from relevant market comparisons, adjusted upward for specific reporting unit risks (primarily the uncertainty of achieving projected operating cash flows). A terminal value growth rate was applied to the final year of the projected period and reflected our estimate of stable, perpetual growth. We then calculated a present value of the respective cash flows for each reporting unit to arrive at an estimate of fair value under the income approach. Under the market approach, we estimated a fair value based on comparable companies' market multiples of revenues and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization and factored in a control premium. Finally, we compared our estimates of fair values to our August 1, 2018 total public market capitalization and assessed implied control premiums based on our common stock price of $33.70 as of August 1, 2018. 
In connection with an original $175,000,000 shelf registration filed with the SEC on December 15, 2015, we sold 7,145,000 shares of our common stock in a public offering at a price of $14.00 per share in June 2016, resulting in proceeds to us of $95,029,000, net of underwriting discounts and commissions. As such shelf registration was due to expire, in December 2018, we filed a new $400,000,000 shelf registration with the SEC for the sale of various types of securities, including debt. The new shelf registration was declared effective by the SEC as of December 14, 2018. To-date, we have not issued any securities related to our new $400,000,000 shelf registration.
Since September 2010, we have paid quarterly dividends pursuant to an annual targeted dividend amount that was established by our Board of Directors. On September 26, 2018 and December 6, 2018, our Board of Directors declared a dividend of $0.10 per common share, which was paid on November 16, 2018 and February 15, 2019, respectively. On March 6, 2019, our Board of Directors declared a dividend of $0.10 per common share, payable on May 17, 2019 to stockholders of record at the close of business on April 17, 2019.
Future dividends remain subject to compliance with financial covenants under our Credit Facility as well as Board approval. 
In December 2009, Vehicle IP, LLC ("Vehicle IP") filed a patent infringement lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware (the "District Court"), seeking monetary damages, fees and expenses and other relief from, among others, our customer Verizon Wireless ("Verizon"), based on the VZ Navigator product, and TCS is defending Verizon against Vehicle IP. In 2013, the District Court granted the defendants’ motion for summary judgment on the basis that the products in question did not infringe plaintiff’s patent. Plaintiff appealed that decision and, in 2014, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit reversed the District Court's claim construction, overturned the District Court's grant of summary judgment of noninfringement, and remanded the case for further proceedings. Fact discovery and expert discovery has closed.
On January 22, 2019, we received a favorable ruling from the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, which upheld the District Court's current claim construction. We and Vehicle IP have filed a joint stipulation requesting a judgment of non-infringement. As a result of the Federal Circuit Court’s decision, during the three and six months ended January 31, 2019, we reduced our accrued legal costs related to this matter and recorded a $3,204,000 benefit in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations. See Note (9) - "Accrued Expenses and Other Current Liabilities" for additional information.
During the three months ended January 31, 2019, a customer that purchased a TCS 911 call handling software solution in December 2014 (which was more than one year prior to our acquisition of TCS) informed us that it experienced several network outages and that it would seek indemnification for any claims made against it as a result of such outages. We are not aware of any damage claims having been asserted against us and we have not been notified by our customer of any such claims asserted against it, in connection with such outages. Nevertheless, we have submitted the customer’s notifications to our insurance carriers for review and consideration of coverage for potential liability that may arise from these matters. 
In connection with these outages, the customer informed us that it believed certain communication failover redundancies were promised to it by former senior management of TCS and were never completed. The customer has demanded that we refund them all amounts previously paid to us under the contract, which through February 28, 2019 was approximately $14,300,000. In response to such claim, we engaged legal counsel to review the claims made by our customer. Based on such ongoing review, we believe that TCS has complied with its contractual requirements and that the customer is not entitled to any such reimbursement. Our contract to provide services to this customer expires in December 2019 and the amount of annual revenue we generate from this customer is immaterial.
In October 2014, we disclosed to the U.S. Department of the Treasury, Office of Foreign Assets Control ("OFAC") that we learned during a self-assessment of our export transactions that a shipment of modems sent to a Canadian customer by Comtech EF Data Corp. was incorporated into a communication system, the ultimate end user of which was the Sudan Civil Aviation Authority. The sales value of this equipment was approximately $288,000. At the time of shipment, OFAC regulations prohibited U.S. persons from doing business directly or indirectly with Sudan. In late 2015, OFAC issued an administrative subpoena seeking information about the disclosed transaction. We have responded to the subpoena, including alerting OFAC to Comtech’s repair of three modems for a customer in Lebanon who may have rerouted the modems from Lebanon to Sudan without the required U.S. licensing authorization. In September 2018, Comtech agreed to enter into a Tolling Agreement with OFAC, which extends the statute of limitations in this matter through December 31, 2019. The Tolling Agreement was shortly followed by a second administrative subpoena seeking additional information about the disclosed transaction. On December 17, 2018, Comtech responded to OFAC’s second administrative subpoena answering the questions posed in the subpoena and providing all the documents it sought. U.S. sanctions with respect to Sudan were revoked in 2017. Consistent with the revocation of the Sudan Sanction Regulations ("SSR"), shipments to the Sudan Civil Aviation Authority by U.S. persons are now permissible. We are not able to predict whether OFAC will take any enforcement action against us in light of the revocation of the SSR. If OFAC determines that we have violated U.S. trade sanctions, civil and criminal penalties could apply, and we may suffer reputational harm. Even though we take precautions to avoid engaging in transactions that may violate U.S. trade sanctions, those measures may not be effective in every instance.
In May 2018, we were informed by the Office of Export Enforcement ("OEE") of the Department of Commerce ("DoC") that it was forwarding to the DoC's Office of Chief Counsel, the results of its audit of international shipments by Comtech Xicom Technology, Inc. for further review and possible determination of an administrative penalty. We fully cooperated with the OEE in their audit and, based on our self-assessment of the approximately 7,800 individual transactions audited, have determined that six (6) transactions may not have been fully in compliance with the Export Administration Regulations ("EAR"). These six (6) items, for which export licenses were not obtained, were either spares or repaired power amplifier subassembly components valued at less than $100,000 (in aggregate) and were shipped to Brazil, Italy, Russia, Thailand and the United Arab Emirates. The EAR provides an exception to the requirement to obtain an export license for the replacement of a defective or damaged component. During our self-assessment, we determined that we inadvertently did not obtain export licenses for the spares, or had evidence of the return or destruction of the defective or damaged components necessary to authorize our use of the export license exception for the replacements. Since discovering this issue, we have implemented additional controls and procedures and have increased awareness of these specific export requirements throughout the Company to help avoid similar occurrences in the future. Administrative penalties under the EAR can range from a warning letter to a denial of export privileges. A civil monetary penalty not to exceed the amount set forth in the Export Administration Act ("EAA") may be imposed for each violation, and in the event that any provision of the EAR is continued by any other authority, the maximum monetary civil penalty for each violation shall be that provided by such other authority. Administrative penalties under the EAR are currently determined pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act ("IEEPA"), which can reach the greater of twice the amount of the transaction that is the basis of the violation or approximately $300,000 per violation. We have not recorded an accrual related to a possible administrative penalty and continue to work cooperatively with the OEE.
See "Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (19) - Legal Proceedings and Other Matters," of this Form 10-Q for information regarding legal proceedings and other matters. 
Item 1A. Risk Factors 
There have been no material changes from the risk factors previously disclosed in our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2018.
