We are a leading provider of advanced communications solutions for both commercial and government customers worldwide.
Our solutions fulfill our customers’ needs for secure wireless communications in some of the most demanding environments, including those where traditional communications are unavailable or cost-prohibitive, and in mission-critical and other scenarios where performance is crucial.
•Commercial Solutions - serves commercial customers and smaller governments, such as state and local governments, that require advanced communication technologies to meet their needs.
This segment also serves certain large government customers (including the U.S. government) that have requirements for off-the-shelf commercial equipment.
We believe this segment is a leading provider of satellite communications (such as satellite earth station modems and traveling wave tube amplifiers ("TWTA")), public safety systems (such as next generation 911 ("NG911") technologies) and enterprise application technologies (such as a messaging and trusted location-based technologies).
•Government Solutions - serves large government end-users (including those of foreign countries) that require mission critical technologies and systems.
We believe this segment is a leading provider of command and control applications (such as the design, installation and operation of data networks that integrate computing and communications (including both satellite and terrestrial links)), ongoing network operation and management support services including project management and fielding and maintenance solutions related to satellite ground terminals), troposcatter communications (such as digital troposcatter multiplexers, digital over-the-horizon modems, troposcatter systems, and frequency converter systems) and RF power and switching technologies (such as solid state high-power broadband amplifiers, enhanced position location reporting system (or commonly known as "EPLRS") amplifier assemblies, identification friend or foe amplifiers, and amplifiers used in the counteraction of improvised explosive devices).
We consider certain accounting policies to be critical due to the estimation process involved in each.
Revenue Recognition.
As a practical expedient, we adopted the new standard only for existing contracts as of August 1, 2018.
•Over time - We recognize revenue using the over time method when there is a continuous transfer of control to the customer over the contractual period of performance.
This generally occurs when we enter into a long-term contract relating to the design, development or manufacture of complex equipment or technology platforms to a buyer’s specification (or to provide services related to the performance of such contracts).
Continuous transfer of control is typically supported by contract clauses which allow our customers to unilaterally terminate a contract for convenience, pay for costs incurred plus a reasonable profit and take control of work-in-process.
Revenue recognized over time is generally based on the extent of progress toward completion of the related performance obligations.
The selection of the method to measure progress requires judgment and is based on the nature of the products or services provided.
In certain instances, typically for firm fixed-price contracts, we use the cost-to-cost measure because it best depicts the transfer of control to the customer which occurs as we incur costs on our contracts.
Under the cost-to-cost measure, the extent of progress toward completion is measured based on the ratio of costs incurred to date to the total estimated costs at completion, including warranty costs.
Revenues, including estimated fees or profits, are recorded proportionally as costs are incurred.
When these contracts are modified, the additional goods or services are generally not distinct from those already provided.
For over time contracts using a cost-to-cost measure of progress, we have an estimate at completion ("EAC") process in which management reviews the progress and execution of our performance obligations.
This EAC process requires management judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract revenue and costs, and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues.
Since certain contracts extend over a long period of time, the impact of revisions in revenue and or cost estimates during the progress of work may impact current period earnings through a cumulative adjustment.
Additionally, if the EAC process indicates a loss, a provision is made for the total anticipated loss in the period that it becomes evident.
Contract revenue and cost estimates for significant contracts are generally reviewed and reassessed at least quarterly.
The cost-to-cost method is principally used to account for contracts in our command and control solutions and over-the-horizon microwave systems product lines and, to a lesser extent, certain location-based and messaging infrastructure contracts in our enterprise technology solutions product line.
For service-based contracts in both our enterprise technology solutions and safety and security technology solutions product lines, we recognize revenue over time.
These services are typically recognized as a series of services performed over the contract term using the straight-line method, or based on our customers’ actual usage of the networks and platforms which we provide.
Point in time accounting is principally applied to contracts in our satellite earth station product line (which includes satellite modems, traveling wave tube amplifiers ("TWTAs") and solid-state power amplifiers ("SSPAs")) and solid-state high-power narrow and broadband amplifiers.
Point in time accounting is also applied to certain contracts in our command and control solutions product line.
The contracts related to these product lines do not meet the requirements for over time revenue recognition because our customers cannot utilize the equipment for its intended purpose during any phase of our manufacturing process; customers do not simultaneously receive and or consume the benefits provided by our performance; customers do not control the asset (i.e., prior to delivery, customers cannot direct the use of the asset, sell or exchange the equipment, etc.
); and, although many of our contracts have termination for convenience clauses and or an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date, our performance creates an asset with an alternative use through the point of delivery.
In determining that our equipment has alternative use, we considered the underlying manufacturing process for our products.
In the early phases of manufacturing, raw materials and work in process (including subassemblies) consist of common parts that are highly fungible among many different types of products and customer applications.
Finished products are either configured to our standard configuration or based on our customers’ specifications.
When identifying performance obligations, we consider whether there are multiple promises and how to account for them.
In our contracts, multiple promises are separated if they are distinct, both individually and in the context of the contract.
If multiple promises in a contract are highly interrelated or comprise a series of distinct services performed over time, they are combined into a single performance obligation.
In some cases, we may also provide the customer with an additional service-type warranty, which we recognize as a separate performance obligation.
When service-type warranties represent a separate performance obligation, the revenue is deferred and recognized ratably over the extended warranty period.
Our contracts, from time-to-time, may also include options for additional goods and services.
To-date, these options have not represented material rights to the customer as the pricing for them reflects standalone selling prices.
As a result, we do not consider options we offer to be performance obligations for which we must allocate a portion of the transaction price.
In many cases, we provide assurance-type warranty coverage for some of our products for a period of at least one year from the date of delivery.
When identifying the transaction price, we typically utilize the contract's stated price as a starting point.
The transaction price in certain arrangements may include estimated amounts of variable consideration, including award fees, incentive fees or other provisions that can either increase or decrease the transaction price.
When allocating the contract’s transaction price, we consider each distinct performance obligation.
For contracts with multiple performance obligations, we allocate the contract’s transaction price to each performance obligation using our best estimate of the standalone selling price of each distinct good or service in the contract.
We determine standalone selling price based on the price at which the performance obligation is sold separately.
If the standalone selling price is not observable through past transactions, we estimate the standalone selling price taking into account available information such as market conditions, including geographic or regional specific factors, competitive positioning, internal costs, profit objectives and internally approved pricing guidelines related to the performance obligations.
Almost all of our contracts with customers are denominated in U.S. dollars and typically are either firm-fixed price or cost reimbursable type contracts (including fixed-fee, incentive-fee and time-and-material type contracts).
In almost all of our contracts with customers, we are the principal in the arrangement and report revenue on a gross basis.
Transaction prices for contracts with U.S. domestic and international customers are usually based on specific negotiations with each customer and in the case of the U.S. government, sometimes based on estimated or actual costs of providing the goods or services in accordance with applicable regulations.
Under typical payment terms for our contracts accounted for over time, amounts are billed as work progresses in accordance with agreed-upon contractual terms, either at periodic intervals (e.g., monthly) or upon achievement of contractual milestones.
For certain contracts with provisions that are intended to protect customers in the event we do not satisfy our performance obligations, billings occur subsequent to revenue recognition, resulting in what we have historically presented as unbilled receivables.
On large long term contracts, and for contracts with international customers that do not do business with us regularly, payment terms typically require advanced payments and deposits.
Under ASC 606, payments received from customers in excess of revenue recognized to-date results in a contract liability.
These contract liabilities are not considered to represent a significant financing component of the contract because we believe these cash advances and deposits are generally used to meet working capital demands which can be higher in the earlier stages of a contract.
Also, advanced payments and deposits provide us with some measure of assurance that the customer will perform on its obligations under the contract.
Under the typical payment terms for our contracts accounted for at a point in time, costs are accumulated in inventory until the time of billing, which generally coincides with revenue recognition.
We recognize the incremental costs to obtain or fulfill a contract as an expense when incurred if the amortization period of the asset is one year or less.
Incremental costs to obtain or fulfill contracts with an amortization period greater than one year were not material.
As for commissions payable to our third party sales representatives related to large long-term contracts, we do consider these types of commissions both direct and incremental costs to obtain and fulfill such contracts.
Therefore, such types of commissions are included in total estimated costs at completion for such contracts and expensed over time through cost of sales on our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
Each of our two operating segments constitutes a reporting unit and we must make various assumptions in determining their estimated fair values.
Such increase is not yet reflected in the amount above.
See "Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (2) - Solacom Acquisition - Subsequent Event" for further information.
In accordance with FASB ASC 350 "Intangibles - Goodwill and Other," we perform a goodwill impairment analysis at least annually (in the first quarter of each fiscal year), unless indicators of impairment exist in interim periods.
If we fail the quantitative assessment of goodwill impairment ("quantitative assessment"), pursuant to our adoption of FASB ASU No.
2017-04 in fiscal 2017, we would be required to recognize an impairment loss equal to the amount that a reporting unit's carrying value exceeded its fair value; however, any loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.
On August 1, 2018 (the first day of our fiscal 2019), we performed our annual quantitative assessment using market participant assumptions to determine if the fair value of each of our reporting units with goodwill exceeded its carrying value.
In performing the quantitative assessment, we estimated the fair value of each of our reporting units using a combination of the income and market approaches.
The discount rates used in our DCF method were based on a weighted-average cost of capital ("WACC") determined from relevant market comparisons, adjusted upward for specific reporting unit risks (primarily the uncertainty of achieving projected operating cash flows).
A terminal value growth rate was applied to the final year of the projected period and reflected our estimate of stable, perpetual growth.
We then calculated a present value of the respective cash flows for each reporting unit to arrive at an estimate of fair value under the income approach.
Under the market approach, we estimated a fair value based on comparable companies' market multiples of revenues and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization and factored in a control premium.
Based on our quantitative evaluation, we determined that our Commercial Solutions and Government Solutions reporting units had estimated fair values in excess of their carrying values of at least 42.5% and 105.5%, respectively, and concluded that our goodwill was not impaired and that neither of our two reporting units was at risk of failing the quantitative assessment.
In any event, we are required to perform the next annual goodwill impairment analysis on August 1, 2019 (the start of our fiscal 2020).
We believe that the carrying values of our net intangible assets were recoverable as of January 31, 2019.
Provision for Assurance-Type Warranty Obligations.
We provide assurance-type warranty coverage for most of our products, including products under long-term contracts, for a period of at least one year from the date of shipment.
Costs associated with some of our warranties that are provided under long-term contracts are incorporated into our estimates of total contract costs.
A portion of our deferred tax assets consist of federal net operating losses and federal research and experimentation tax credit carryforwards, most of which was acquired in connection with our acquisition of TCS.
This provision went into effect on January 1, 2018 and required us to remeasure our deferred tax assets and liabilities.
The remeasurement was recorded pursuant to ASC 740 "Income Taxes" and SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin ("SAB") 118.
Research and Development Costs.
Research and development expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and other personnel-related expenses associated with product development.
Judgment is required in determining when technological feasibility of a product is established.
Technological feasibility for our advanced communication software solutions is generally reached after all high-risk development issues have been resolved through coding and testing.
Once technological feasibility is established, all software costs are capitalized until the product is available for general release to customers.
To date, capitalized internally developed software costs were not material.
Provisions for Excess and Obsolete Inventory.
We record a provision for excess and obsolete inventory based on historical and future usage trends.
We perform credit evaluations of our customers and adjust credit limits based upon customer payment history and current creditworthiness, as determined by our review of our customers’ current credit information.
Generally, we will require cash in advance or payment secured by irrevocable letters of credit before an order is accepted from an international customer that we do not do business with regularly.
We monitor collections and payments from our customers and maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts based upon our historical experience and any specific customer collection issues that we have identified.
In light of ongoing tight credit market conditions, we continue to see requests from our customers for higher credit limits and longer payment terms.
Because of our strong cash position and the nominal amount of interest we are earning on our cash and cash equivalents, we have, on a limited basis, approved certain customer requests.
We continue to monitor our accounts receivable credit portfolio.
•Net sales of $164.1 million;
•Operating income of $12.4 million;
•Adjusted EBITDA (a Non-GAAP financial measure discussed below) of $23.2 million.
Although the level of our bookings we achieved during the second quarter was below our annual fiscal 2019 book-to-bill ratio goal of 1.0, demand for our products remains strong.
Nevertheless, we expect bookings during the second half of fiscal 2019 to increase from current levels and still target our annual book-to-bill ratio goal to be 1.0.
•In January 2019, we announced our agreement to acquire Solacom Technologies Inc. ("Solacom"), a leading provider of Next Generation 911 ("NG911") solutions for public safety agencies.
The Solacom acquisition, which was completed on February 28, 2019, was a significant step in our strategy of enhancing our Commercial Solutions segment’s safety and security technology solutions.
During the second quarter, we incurred $1.8 million of total acquisition plan expenses primarily associated with the closing of our acquisition of Solacom.
•During the second of quarter of fiscal 2019, we initiated efforts to acquire another small but growing technology solutions company, which we believe will further complement our product offerings.
We expect to incur approximately $1.0 million of acquisition plan expenses during the third quarter of fiscal 2019.
There is no certainty that our acquisition plan efforts will be successful.
•We began an evaluation and repositioning of our enterprise technology product solutions in our Commercial Solutions segment in order to focus on providing higher margin solution offerings.
To-date, we have ceased offering certain solutions and do not intend to renew certain contracts.
In connection with our ongoing repositioning, we recorded $3.9 million of estimated contract settlement costs in our Commercial Solutions segment.
Excluding the net financial impact of the aforementioned steps, our consolidated operating income for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 would have been $14.9 million, or 9.1% of consolidated net sales, an improvement from the amounts and related percentages achieved in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 and the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
As of January 31, 2019, our cash and cash equivalents were $46.0 million and our total debt outstanding (including capital leases and other obligations) was $176.3 million.
Based on our strong fiscal 2019 year-to-date performance, our Business Outlook for Fiscal 2019 has improved since December 6, 2018 (the date we filed our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC")) and we are increasing our targeted goals for consolidated net sales and Adjusted EBITDA.
Our fiscal 2019 consolidated net sales are now expected to be higher and within a range of approximately $645.0 million to $660.0 million and our Adjusted EBITDA goal within a range of $85.0 million to $89.0 million.
These targets reflect the benefit of strong demand we continue to see in many key product lines as well as a nominal financial contribution from Solacom.
In fiscal 2018, we reported consolidated net sales of $570.6 million and Adjusted EBITDA of $78.4 million.
We now expect our consolidated net sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 to approximate the amount we achieved in our second quarter of fiscal 2019, with GAAP operating income and Adjusted EBITDA approximating $9.0 million and $20.0 million, respectively.
Given the strength of our backlog and timing of anticipated orders, our fourth quarter of fiscal 2019 is expected to be the peak quarter of the fiscal year for Adjusted EBITDA.
After considering the impact of all GAAP operating expenses, we anticipate consolidated operating income, in dollars, to be higher than the $35.1 million we achieved in fiscal 2018 and, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, to be similar to the 6.2% we achieved in fiscal 2018.
Also, our effective tax rate for fiscal 2019 (excluding net discrete items) is now expected to approximate 23.0%.
On March 6, 2019, our Board of Directors declared a dividend of $0.10 per common share, payable on May 17, 2019 to stockholders of record at the close of business on April 17, 2019.
Future dividends remain subject to compliance with financial covenants under our Credit Facility as well as Board approval.
Additional information related to our Business Outlook for Fiscal 2019 and a definition and explanation of Adjusted EBITDA is included in the below sections entitled "Comparison of the Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended January 31, 2019 and 2018" and "Comparison of the Results of Operations for the Six Months Ended January 31, 2019 and 2018."
Net Sales.
Consolidated net sales were $164.1 million and $133.7 million for the three months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, representing an increase of $30.4 million, or 22.7%.
The significant period-over-period increase in net sales is primarily due to significantly higher net sales in our Government Solutions segment and, to a lesser extent, our Commercial Solutions segment.
Net sales by operating segment are discussed below.
Net sales in our Commercial Solutions segment were $86.7 million for the three months ended January 31, 2019, as compared to $85.8 million for the three months ended January 31, 2018, an increase of $0.9 million, or 1.1%.
Our Commercial Solutions segment represented 52.8% of consolidated net sales for the three months ended January 31, 2019 as compared to 64.2% for the three months ended January 31, 2018.
Net sales of our satellite earth station products (which include satellite modems, traveling wave tube amplifiers ("TWTAs") and solid-state power amplifiers ("SSPAs")) during the three months ended January 31, 2019 were slightly higher than the three months ended January 31, 2018.
Net sales during the most recent quarter include the benefit of incremental sales of our SLM-5650B satellite modems, upgrade kits and related services to the U.S. Navy, which positively impacted our operating income.
Our HeightsTM Dynamic Network Access Technology ("HEIGHTS" or "HDNA") solutions continue to gain traction and we continue to seed and invest in the market.
Although the sales cycle for HEIGHTS is longer than our historical satellite earth station product line, we expect a steady increase in sales of HEIGHTS throughout fiscal 2019.
All-in-all, we believe that fiscal 2019 will be our second consecutive year of revenue growth for our satellite earth station product line.
Net sales in the three months ended January 31, 2019 of both enterprise technology solutions (such as our location and messaging platforms) and safety and security technology solutions (such as our wireless and next generation 911 ("NG911") platforms) were slightly higher as compared to the net sales we achieved in the three months ended January 31, 2018.
Sales in this period include revenue contributions from two of the largest wireless carriers in the U.S. We believe that market conditions for safety and security technology solutions and enterprise technology solutions remain favorable, but they have long sales cycles and are subject to difficult-to-predict changes in the overall procurement strategies of wireless carrier customers.
In February 2019, we closed on our acquisition of Solacom Technologies Inc. ("Solacom"), which is a leading provider of NG911 solutions for public safety agencies.
As such, we have ceased offering certain solutions and do not intend to renew certain contracts.
Nevertheless, we expect sales of enterprise technology solutions as well as safety and security technology solutions to be higher than what we achieved in fiscal 2018.
In the aggregate, we expect fiscal 2019 net sales in our Commercial Solutions segment to increase as compared to fiscal 2018.
We also expect this segment's net sales in each of the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2019 to exceed the net sales achieved in the respective comparable quarters of fiscal 2018.
Net sales in our Government Solutions segment were $77.4 million for the three months ended January 31, 2019 as compared to $47.9 million for the three months ended January 31, 2018, a significant increase of $29.5 million, or 61.6%.
Our Government Solutions segment represented 47.2% of consolidated net sales for the three months ended January 31, 2019, as compared to 35.8% for the three months ended January 31, 2018.
The increase in net sales in this segment primarily reflects higher net sales of our command and control solutions, in particular, Manpack Satellite Terminals, networking equipment and other advanced VSAT products to the U.S. Army and deliveries of our next generation MT-2025 mobile satellite transceivers, which are also known as the Blue Force Tracker-2 High Capacity ("BFT-2-HC") satellite transceivers and, to a lesser extent, over-the-horizon microwave systems products.
During the three months ended January 31, 2019, we continued to work with the U.S. Army with respect to our MT-2025 satellite transceivers.
These transceivers meet BFT-2 protocols, provide best-in-class reliability and are fully backward compatible with the BFT-1 system.
We started shipments of our MT-2025 satellite transceivers in fiscal 2018 pursuant to an $11.7 million order and completed such shipments in our second quarter of fiscal 2019.
Net sales of our over-the-horizon microwave systems products for the three months ended January 31, 2019 were significantly higher than the three months ended January 31, 2018, as business activity in this product line recently picked up.
Net sales in the most recent quarter benefited from work performed on our $31.0 million order received in fiscal 2018 for Modular Transportable Transmission System ("MTTS") troposcatter terminals to be utilized as part of a deployable communications network for an Asia Pacific military service and a $9.1 million contract to supply another foreign military with our over-the-horizon microwave systems.
Teaming with a large prime contractor, we recently submitted a proposal to supply a significant quantity of our over-the-horizon microwave systems to the U.S. Army.
During the second quarter of fiscal 2019, our teaming partner informed us that its proposal was not being considered for further evaluation and that it has filed a formal protest.
In a related development, we understand that the U.S. Marine Corps intends to issue a separate procurement proposal for over-the-horizon microwave systems.
As such, we now believe that any potential award will be delayed by several months, if not longer.
While disappointed in the delay, we believe our over-the-horizon microwave systems can meet the specifications and requirements of the U.S. Army as well as a forthcoming request from the U.S. Marine Corps.
Ultimately, we believe we will be successful in supplying our troposcatter equipment to the U.S. Army and U.S. Marine Corps.
Fielding schedules for our Government Solutions segment are fluid and there are a number of items that could shift between quarters.
Based on our current assessment, we expect net sales in our Government Solutions segment in each of the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2019 to be lower than the amount we achieved in the second quarter.
Overall, based on fiscal 2019 performance to date, the mix and anticipated timing of performance on orders in backlog and expected new orders, we anticipate that fiscal 2019 net sales for our Government Solutions segment will be significantly higher than fiscal 2018.
Net sales to U.S. government customers include sales to the U.S. Department of Defense ("DoD"), intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as sales directly to or through prime contractors.
Domestic net sales include sales to commercial customers, as well as to U.S. state and local governments.
Included in domestic net sales, are sales to Verizon Communications Inc. ("Verizon").
Sales to Verizon were 10.1% and 10.5%, respectively, of consolidated net sales for the three months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018.
International net sales for the three months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018 (which include sales to U.S. domestic companies for inclusion in products that are sold to international customers) were $37.4 million and $35.4 million, respectively.
Except for the U.S., no individual country (including sales to U.S. domestic companies for inclusion in products that are sold to a foreign country) represented more than 10.0% of consolidated net sales for the three months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018.
Gross profit was $61.2 million and $50.8 million for the three months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The increase of $10.4 million reflects significantly higher net sales in our Government Solutions segment, as discussed above.
Gross profit, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, for the three months ended January 31, 2019 was 37.3% as compared to 38.0% for the three months ended January 31, 2018.
The decrease in gross profit, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, was almost entirely driven by the significant period-to-period increase in net sales in our Government Solutions segment, as discussed above.
This segment historically achieves lower gross margins than our Commercial Solutions segment.
Gross profit, as a percentage of related segment net sales, is further discussed below.
Our Commercial Solutions segment's gross profit, as a percentage of related segment net sales, for the three months ended January 31, 2019 was higher than the three months ended January 31, 2018 due to a more favorable product mix (including deliveries of our satellite earth station equipment to the U.S. Navy).
Our Business Outlook for Fiscal 2019 assumes we continue to seed and invest in the market for our HEIGHTS solutions and that related sales will grow significantly from the level we achieved in fiscal 2018.
Today, HEIGHTS solutions have lower gross margins than our traditional Single Channel per Carrier ("SCPC") satellite earth station modems and, given expected sales growth, our gross profit, as a percentage of satellite earth station product sales in fiscal 2019, is expected to be lower as compared to fiscal 2018.
Over time, we believe that margins will improve as HEIGHTS volume increases.
Overall, looking forward, based on the mix and anticipated timing of shipments and performance related to orders currently in our backlog and the mix and timing of expected new orders, gross profit for this segment, as a percentage of related segment net sales, for fiscal 2019 is expected to be lower than the level achieved in fiscal 2018.
Our Government Solutions segment's gross profit, as a percentage of related segment net sales, for the three months ended January 31, 2019 was higher than the level we achieved in the three months ended January 31, 2018.
This increase was primarily due to overall favorable product mix changes during the most recent fiscal quarter, including a higher percentage of segment net sales related to our over-the-horizon microwave systems products.
Based on the mix and anticipated timing of shipments and performance related to orders currently in our backlog and the mix and timing of expected new orders, gross profit for this segment, as a percentage of related segment net sales, for fiscal 2019 is expected to be comparable to the level achieved in fiscal 2018.
Included in consolidated cost of sales for the three months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018 are provisions for excess and obsolete inventory of $1.0 million and $1.7 million, respectively.
Nevertheless, based on expected bookings, expected timing of our performance on orders and the anticipated increase of Government Solutions segment net sales as a percentage of consolidated net sales, we currently expect our consolidated gross profit, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, for fiscal 2019 to be lower than the percentage we achieved in fiscal 2018.
Selling, General and Administrative Expenses.
Selling, general and administrative expenses were $32.0 million and $27.2 million for the three months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, representing an increase of $4.8 million, or 17.6%.
As a percentage of consolidated net sales, selling, general and administrative expenses were 19.5% and 20.3% for the three months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The decrease, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, is primarily attributable to the increase in our consolidated net sales.
Excluding a $3.9 million expense for estimated contract settlement costs related to an ongoing repositioning of our enterprise technology solutions offerings in our Commercial Solutions segment, our selling, general and administrative expenses for the three months ended January 31, 2019 would have been $28.1 million, or 17.1% of consolidated net sales.
Amortization of stock-based compensation expense recorded as selling, general and administrative expenses was $1.1 million in the three months ended January 31, 2019 as compared to $1.0 million in the three months ended January 31, 2018.
Amortization of stock-based compensation is not allocated to our two reportable operating segments.
Based on our current spending plans, we expect fiscal 2019 selling, general and administrative expenses, in dollars, to be higher and, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, to be similar to the percentage achieved in fiscal 2018.
Research and Development Expenses.
As a percentage of consolidated net sales, research and development expenses were 8.5% and 10.0% for the three months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
For the three months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018, research and development expenses of $11.9 million and $11.4 million, respectively, related to our Commercial Solutions segment, and $2.0 million in both periods, related to our Government Solutions segment.
The remaining research and development expenses of $0.1 million for both the three months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018, related to the amortization of stock-based compensation expense.
Whenever possible, we seek customer funding for research and development to adapt our products to specialized customer requirements.
Based on our current spending plans, we expect fiscal 2019 research and development expenses, in dollars, to be higher and, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, to be similar to fiscal 2018.
Amortization relating to intangible assets with finite lives was $4.3 million (of which $3.5 million was for the Commercial Solutions segment and $0.8 million was for the Government Solutions segment) for the three months ended January 31, 2019 and $5.3 million (of which $4.4 million was for the Commercial Solutions segment and $0.8 million was for the Government Solutions segment) for the three months ended January 31, 2018.
The decrease from $5.3 million to $4.3 million was the result of certain intangible assets in our Commercial Solutions segment that became fully amortized in fiscal 2018.
As such, our Business Outlook for Fiscal 2019 now assumes total annual amortization of intangibles to approximate $17.8 million, or an increase from the $17.2 million we previously expected.
During the three months ended January 31, 2019, we recorded a $3.2 million benefit in our Unallocated segment as a result of a favorable ruling issued by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit related to a legacy TCS intellectual property matter.
Acquisition Plan Expenses.
During the second quarter of fiscal 2019, we incurred $1.8 million of total acquisition plan expenses.
These expenses are recorded in our Unallocated segment and primarily related to our acquisition of Solacom, as discussed above.
During our second quarter, we also initiated efforts to acquire another small but growing technology solutions company.
Our acquisition plan effort is ongoing and we expect to incur approximately $1.0 million of additional expenses during the third quarter of fiscal 2019.
There is no certainty that our acquisition plan effort will be successful.
The slight decrease in our Commercial Solutions segment’s operating income, both in dollars and as a percentage of related segment net sales, reflects $3.9 million of estimated contract settlement costs, as discussed above.
Looking forward, excluding the $3.9 million charge, we expect fiscal 2019 operating income, both in dollars and as a percentage of related segment net sales, to be similar to fiscal 2018.
Looking forward, we expect fiscal 2019 operating income, in dollars and as a percentage of related segment net sales, to be significantly higher as compared to fiscal 2018.
The increase in unallocated expenses is primarily due to increased business and sales activity during the quarter, acquisition plan expenses and a slight increase in amortization of stock-based compensation, offset in part by the benefit related to a legacy TCS intellectual property matter, as discussed above.
Amortization of stock-based compensation can fluctuate from period-to-period based on the type and timing of stock-based awards, estimated forfeitures and the achievement of applicable performance goals.
On an annual basis, amortization of stock-based compensation expense in fiscal 2019 is expected to increase to a range of $11.0 million to $13.0 million as compared to the $8.6 million amortized in fiscal 2018.
This increase is largely due to an increase in the number and value of annual non-equity incentive awards expected to be granted in fiscal 2019 as a result of anticipated operating income contributions from each of our two reportable operating segments.
Like we did in fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017, our Business Outlook for Fiscal 2019 assumes that we continue to pay certain annual non-equity incentive awards in the form of fully vested share units.
If we do not achieve our fiscal 2019 business goals, amortization of stock-based compensation expense would be lower than our current expected fiscal 2019 range.
Looking forward, unallocated operating expenses are expected to be higher in fiscal 2019 as compared to fiscal 2018.
This expected increase is primarily due to anticipated changes in compensation costs (including amortization of stock-based compensation expense), acquisition plan expenses and other increased spending, offset in part by the benefit from the favorable ruling related to a legacy TCS intellectual property matter, as discussed above.
Consolidated GAAP operating income was $12.4 million or 7.6% of consolidated net sales in our most recent quarter as compared to GAAP operating income of $4.9 million or 3.7% of consolidated net sales in the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
Excluding the $1.8 million of acquisition plan expenses, $3.9 million expense for estimated contract settlement costs and $3.2 million benefit related to a legacy TCS intellectual property matter, as discussed above, consolidated operating income would have been $14.9 million, or 9.1% of consolidated net sales in the second quarter of fiscal 2019.
Looking forward, on a consolidated basis, we are targeting operating income, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, to be similar to the 6.2% we achieved in fiscal 2018.
Such GAAP operating income target includes the additional acquisition plan expenses expected during the remainder of fiscal 2019.
Interest expense was $2.3 million and $2.5 million for the three months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Based on the type, terms, amount of outstanding debt (including capital leases and other obligations) and current interest rates, our effective interest rate (including amortization of deferred financing costs) in fiscal 2019 is anticipated to range from 5.3% to 5.5%.
Despite borrowing approximately $25.9 million to fund the cash portion of the Solacom acquisition purchase price, we do expect to generate strong cash flow from operating activities in the second half of fiscal 2019.
Overall, total interest expense in fiscal 2019 is expected to approximate $10.0 million.
Interest (Income) and Other.
Interest (income) and other for both the three months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018 was nominal.
All of our available cash and cash equivalents are currently invested in bank deposits and money market deposit accounts which, at this time, are currently yielding an immaterial interest rate.
During the second quarter of fiscal 2019, we recorded a net discrete tax expense of less than $0.1 million.
Excluding discrete tax items, our effective tax rate was 23.0%.
The decrease from 27.75% to 23.0% is principally attributable to the passage of Tax Reform which reduced the statutory income tax rate from 35.0% to 21.0%.
Such decrease was partially offset by lower tax deductions for certain executive compensation expenses.
Net Income.
During the three months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018, consolidated net income was $7.8 million and $15.8 million, respectively.
The significant increase in consolidated Adjusted EBITDA, both in dollars and as a percentage of consolidated net sales, during the three months ended January 31, 2019 as compared to the three months ended January 31, 2018 is primarily attributable to significantly higher net sales, favorable product mix changes in both of our segments and the benefit of cost reduction actions previously initiated, as discussed above.
Nevertheless, based on expected bookings, expected timing of our performance on orders and the anticipated increase in our Government Solutions segment net sales as a percentage of consolidated net sales, we currently expect our Adjusted EBITDA, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, for fiscal 2019 to be similar to the percentage we achieved in fiscal 2018.
Our Adjusted EBITDA is a Non-GAAP measure that represents earnings (loss) before income taxes, interest (income) and other, write-off of deferred financing costs, interest expense, amortization of stock-based compensation, amortization of intangibles, depreciation expense, estimated contract settlement costs, settlement of intellectual property litigation, acquisition plan expenses or strategic alternatives analysis expenses, facility exit costs and other.
Our Non-GAAP measures for consolidated operating income, net income and net income per diluted share reflect the GAAP measures as reported, adjusted for certain items as described.
These Non-GAAP financial measures have limitations as an analytical tool as they exclude the financial impact of transactions necessary to conduct our business, such as the granting of equity compensation awards, and are not intended to be an alternative to financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
These measures are adjusted as described in the reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP in the above tables, but these adjustments should not be construed as an inference that all of these adjustments or costs are unusual, infrequent or non-recurring.
Non-GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for or superior to, financial measures determined in accordance with GAAP.
For example, quantification of stock-based compensation expense requires inputs such as the number of shares granted and market price that are not currently ascertainable.
Net Sales.
Consolidated net sales were $325.0 million and $255.3 million for the six months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, representing a significant increase of $69.7 million, or 27.3%.
Net sales by operating segment are discussed below.
Net sales in our Commercial Solutions segment were $164.7 million for the six months ended January 31, 2019, as compared to $161.9 million for the six months ended January 31, 2018, an increase of $2.8 million, or 1.7%.
Net sales of our satellite earth station products (which include satellite modems, traveling wave tube amplifiers ("TWTAs") and solid-state power amplifiers ("SSPAs")) during the six months ended January 31, 2019 were higher than the six months ended January 31, 2018.
Net sales during the most recent year-to-date period include the benefit of incremental sales of our SLM-5650B satellite modems, upgrade kits and related services to the U.S. Navy, which positively impacted our operating income.
Our HeightsTM Dynamic Network Access Technology ("HEIGHTS" or "HDNA") solutions continue to gain traction and we continue to seed and invest in the market.
Although the sales cycle for HEIGHTS is longer than our historical satellite earth station product line, we expect a steady increase in sales of HEIGHTS throughout fiscal 2019.
All-in-all, we believe that fiscal 2019 will be our second consecutive year of revenue growth for our satellite earth station product line.
Net sales in the six months ended January 31, 2019 of both enterprise technology solutions (such as our location and messaging platforms) and safety and security technology solutions (such as our wireless and next generation 911 ("NG911") platforms) were slightly lower as compared to the net sales we achieved in the six months ended January 31, 2018.
Sales in this period include revenue contributions from two of the largest wireless carriers in the U.S. We believe that market conditions for safety and security technology solutions and enterprise technology solutions remain favorable, but they have long sales cycles and are subject to difficult-to-predict changes in the overall procurement strategies of wireless carrier customers.
In February 2019, we closed on our acquisition of Solacom Technologies Inc. ("Solacom"), which is a leading provider of NG911 solutions for public safety agencies.
As such we have ceased offering certain solutions and do not intend to renew certain contracts.
Nevertheless, we expect sales of enterprise technology solutions as well as safety and security technology solutions to be higher than what we achieved in fiscal 2018.
In the aggregate, we expect fiscal 2019 net sales in our Commercial Solutions segment to increase as compared to fiscal 2018.
We also expect this segment's net sales in each of the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2019 to exceed the net sales achieved in the respective comparable quarters of fiscal 2018.
Net sales in our Government Solutions segment were $160.3 million for the six months ended January 31, 2019 as compared to $93.4 million for the six months ended January 31, 2018, a significant increase of $66.9 million, or 71.6%.
The increase in net sales in this segment primarily reflects higher net sales of our command and control solutions, in particular, Manpack Satellite Terminals, networking equipment and other advanced VSAT products to the U.S. Army, incremental sales of Electrical, Electronic and Electromechanical ("EEE") space components and deliveries of our next generation MT-2025 mobile satellite transceivers, which are also known as the Blue Force Tracker-2 High Capacity ("BFT-2-HC") satellite transceivers and, to a lesser extent, over-the-horizon microwave systems products.
During the six months ended January 31, 2019, we continued to work with the U.S. Army with respect to our MT-2025 satellite transceivers.
These transceivers meet BFT-2 protocols, provide best-in-class reliability and are fully backward compatible with the BFT-1 system.
We started shipments of our MT-2025 satellite transceivers in fiscal 2018 pursuant to an $11.7 million order and completed such shipments in our second quarter of fiscal 2019.
Net sales of our over-the-horizon microwave systems products for the six months ended January 31, 2019 were significantly higher than the six months ended January 31, 2018, as business activity in this product line recently picked up.
Net sales during the six months ended January 31, 2019 benefited from work performed on our $31.0 million order received in fiscal 2018 for Modular Transportable Transmission System ("MTTS") troposcatter terminals to be utilized as part of a deployable communications network for an Asia Pacific military service and a $9.1 million contract to supply another foreign military with our over-the-horizon microwave systems.
Teaming with a large prime contractor, we recently submitted a proposal to supply a significant quantity of our over-the-horizon microwave systems to the U.S. Army.
During the second quarter of fiscal 2019, our teaming partner informed us that its proposal was not being considered for further evaluation and that it has filed a formal protest.
In a related development, we understand that the U.S. Marine Corps intends to issue a separate procurement proposal for over-the-horizon microwave systems.
As such, we now believe that any potential award will be delayed by several months, if not longer.
While disappointed in the delay, we believe our over-the-horizon microwave systems can meet the specifications and requirements of the U.S. Army as well as a forthcoming request from the U.S. Marine Corps.
Ultimately, we believe we will be successful in supplying our troposcatter equipment to the U.S. Army and U.S. Marine Corps.
Fielding schedules for our Government Solutions segment are fluid and there are a number of items that could shift between quarters.
Based on our current assessment, we expect net sales in our Government Solutions segment in each of the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2019 to be lower than the amount we achieved in the second quarter.
Overall, based on fiscal 2019 performance to date, the mix and anticipated timing of performance on orders in backlog and expected new orders, we anticipate that fiscal 2019 net sales for our Government Solutions segment will be significantly higher than fiscal 2018.
Net sales to U.S. government customers include sales to the U.S. Department of Defense ("DoD"), intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as sales directly to or through prime contractors.
Domestic net sales include sales to commercial customers, as well as to U.S. state and local governments.
Included in domestic net sales, are sales to Verizon Communications Inc. ("Verizon").
Sales to Verizon were 11.1% of consolidated net sales for the six months ended January 31, 2018.
International net sales for the six months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018 (which include sales to U.S. domestic companies for inclusion in products that are sold to international customers) were $76.7 million and $63.7 million, respectively.
Gross profit was $119.0 million and $98.5 million for the six months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The significant increase of $20.5 million reflects significantly higher net sales in our Government Solutions segment, as discussed above.
The decrease in gross profit, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, was almost entirely driven by the significant period-to-period increase in net sales in our Government Solutions segment, as discussed above.
This segment historically achieves lower gross margins than our Commercial Solutions segment.
The six months ended January 31, 2018 also included a favorable warranty settlement which resulted in a reduction of $0.6 million to cost of sales in our Unallocated segment.
Gross profit, as a percentage of related segment net sales, is further discussed below.
Our Commercial Solutions segment's gross profit, as a percentage of related segment net sales, for the six months ended January 31, 2019 was higher than the six months ended January 31, 2018 due to a more favorable product mix (including deliveries of our satellite earth station equipment to the U.S. Navy).
Our Business Outlook for Fiscal 2019 assumes we continue to seed and invest in the market for our HEIGHTS solutions and that related sales will grow significantly from the level we achieved in fiscal 2018.
Today, HEIGHTS solutions have lower gross margins than our traditional Single Channel per Carrier ("SCPC") satellite earth station modems and, given expected sales growth, our gross profit, as a percentage of satellite earth station product sales in fiscal 2019, is expected to be lower as compared to fiscal 2018.
Over time, we believe that margins will improve as HEIGHTS volume increases.
Overall, looking forward, based on the mix and anticipated timing of shipments and performance related to orders currently in our backlog and the mix and timing of expected new orders, gross profit for this segment, as a percentage of related segment net sales, for fiscal 2019 is expected to be lower than the level achieved in fiscal 2018.
Our Government Solutions segment's gross profit, as a percentage of related segment net sales, for the six months ended January 31, 2019 was higher than the level we achieved in the six months ended January 31, 2018.
This increase was primarily due to overall favorable product mix changes during the six months ended January 31, 2019, including a higher percentage of segment net sales related to our over-the-horizon microwave systems products.
Based on the mix and anticipated timing of shipments and performance related to orders currently in our backlog and the mix and timing of expected new orders, gross profit for this segment, as a percentage of related segment net sales, for fiscal 2019 is expected to be comparable to the level achieved in fiscal 2018.
Included in consolidated cost of sales for the six months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018 are provisions for excess and obsolete inventory of $1.7 million and $2.4 million, respectively.
Nevertheless, based on expected bookings, expected timing of our performance on orders and the anticipated increase of Government Solutions segment net sales as a percentage of consolidated net sales, we currently expect our consolidated gross profit, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, for fiscal 2019 to be lower than the percentage we achieved in fiscal 2018.
Selling, General and Administrative Expenses.
Selling, general and administrative expenses were $63.8 million and $55.7 million for the six months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, representing an increase of $8.1 million.
As a percentage of consolidated net sales, selling, general and administrative expenses were 19.6% and 21.8% for the six months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The decrease, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, is primarily attributable to the increase in our consolidated net sales.
During the six months ended January 31, 2019, we also incurred $3.9 million of estimated contract settlement costs related to an ongoing repositioning of our enterprise technology solutions offerings in our Commercial Solutions segment that we initiated during the most recent fiscal quarter.
Excluding such costs, our selling, general and administrative expenses for the six months ended January 31, 2019 would have been $58.5 million, or 18.0% of consolidated net sales.
Amortization of stock-based compensation expense recorded as selling, general and administrative expenses was $2.0 million in the six months ended January 31, 2019 as compared to $1.6 million in the six months ended January 31, 2018.
Amortization in the six months ended January 31, 2018 includes the benefit of a $0.4 million reversal of stock-based compensation expense related to certain performance shares previously expected to be earned.
Amortization of stock-based compensation is not allocated to our two reportable operating segments.
Based on our current spending plans, we expect fiscal 2019 selling, general and administrative expenses, in dollars, to be higher and, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, to be similar to the percentage achieved in fiscal 2018.
Research and Development Expenses.
Research and development expenses were $27.2 million for both the six months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
As a percentage of consolidated net sales, research and development expenses were 8.4% and 10.7% for the six months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The remaining research and development expenses of $0.1 million for both the six months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, related to the amortization of stock-based compensation expense.
Whenever possible, we seek customer funding for research and development to adapt our products to specialized customer requirements.
Based on our current spending plans, we expect fiscal 2019 research and development expenses, in dollars, to be higher and, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, to be similar to fiscal 2018.
Amortization relating to intangible assets with finite lives was $8.6 million (of which $6.9 million was for the Commercial Solutions segment and $1.7 million was for the Government Solutions segment) for the six months ended January 31, 2019 and $10.5 million (of which $8.8 million was for the Commercial Solutions segment and $1.7 million was for the Government Solutions segment) for the six months ended January 31, 2018.
The decrease from $10.5 million to $8.6 million was the result of certain intangible assets in our Commercial Solutions segment that became fully amortized in fiscal 2018.
As such, our business Outlook for Fiscal 2019 now assumes total amortization of intangibles to approximate $17.8 million, or an increase from $17.2 million we previously expected.
During the six months ended January 31, 2019, we recorded a $3.2 million benefit in our Unallocated segment as a result of a favorable ruling issued by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit related to a legacy TCS intellectual property matter.
Acquisition Plan Expenses.
During the six months ended January 31, 2019, we incurred $2.9 million of total acquisition plan expenses.
These expenses are recorded in our Unallocated segment and primarily related to our acquisition of Solacom, as discussed above.
During the six months ended January 31, 2019, we also initiated efforts to acquire another small but growing technology solutions company.
Our acquisition plan effort is ongoing and we expect to incur approximately $1.0 million of additional expenses during the third quarter of fiscal 2019.
There is no certainty that our acquisition plan efforts will be successful.
Looking forward, excluding the $3.9 million charge, we expect fiscal 2019 operating income, both in dollars and as a percentage of related segment net sales, to be similar to fiscal 2018.
Looking forward, we expect fiscal 2019 operating income, in dollars and as a percentage of related segment net sales, to be significantly higher as compared to fiscal 2018.
The increase in unallocated expenses is primarily due to increased business and sales activity during the more recent period, acquisition plan expenses and an increase in amortization of stock-based compensation offset in part by the benefit related to a legacy TCS intellectual property matter, as discussed above.
In addition, unallocated operating expenses for the six months ended January 31, 2018 includes the benefit of a warranty settlement, as discussed above.
Amortization of stock-based compensation can fluctuate from period-to-period based on the type and timing of stock-based awards, estimated forfeitures and the achievement of applicable performance goals.
On an annual basis, amortization of stock-based compensation expense in fiscal 2019 is expected to increase to a range of $11.0 million to $13.0 million as compared to the $8.6 million amortized in fiscal 2018.
This increase is largely due to an increase in the number and value of annual non-equity incentive awards expected to be granted in fiscal 2019 as a result of anticipated operating income contributions from each of our two reportable operating segments.
Like we did in fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017, our Business Outlook for Fiscal 2019 assumes that we continue to pay certain annual non-equity incentive awards in the form of fully vested share units.
If we do not achieve our fiscal 2019 business goals, amortization of stock-based compensation expense would be lower than our current expected fiscal 2019 range.
Looking forward, unallocated operating expenses are expected to be higher in fiscal 2019 as compared to fiscal 2018.
This expected increase is primarily due to anticipated changes in compensation costs (including amortization of stock-based compensation expense), acquisition plan expenses and other increased spending, offset in part by the benefit from the favorable ruling related to a legacy TCS intellectual property matter, as discussed above.
Consolidated GAAP operating income was $19.7 million or 6.1% of consolidated net sales for the six months ended January 31, 2019 as compared to GAAP operating income of $5.1 million or 2.0% of consolidated net sales for the six months ended January 31, 2018.
Excluding the $3.9 million of estimated contract settlement costs, $1.4 million of facility exit costs, $2.9 million of acquisition plan expenses and $3.2 million benefit related to a legacy TCS intellectual property matter, as discussed above, consolidated operating income would have been $24.7 million, or 7.6% of consolidated net sales for the six months ended January 31, 2019.
Looking forward, on a consolidated basis, we are targeting operating income, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, to be similar to the 6.2% we achieved in fiscal 2018.
Such GAAP operating income target includes the additional acquisition plan expenses expected during the remainder of fiscal 2019.
Interest expense was $4.9 million and $5.1 million for the six months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Our effective interest rate (including amortization of deferred financing costs) in the six months ended January 31, 2019 was approximately 5.6%.
Based on the type, terms, amount of outstanding debt (including capital leases and other obligations) and current interest rates, our effective interest rate (including amortization of deferred financing costs) in fiscal 2019 is now anticipated to range from 5.3% to 5.5%.
Despite borrowing approximately $25.9 million to fund the cash portion of the Solacom acquisition, we do expect to generate strong cash flow from operating activities in the second half of fiscal 2019.
Overall, total interest expense in fiscal 2019 is expected to approximate $10.0 million.
Write-off of Deferred Financing Costs.
In connection with the establishment of our new Credit Facility, we wrote-off $3.2 million of deferred financing costs which primarily related to the term loan portion of our prior credit facility.
See "Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (11) - Credit Facility" for further information.
Interest (Income) and Other.
Interest (income) and other for both the six months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018 was nominal.
All of our available cash and cash equivalents are currently invested in bank deposits and money market deposit accounts which, at this time, are currently yielding an immaterial interest rate.
Our effective tax rate, excluding discrete tax items, for the six months ended January 31, 2018 was 27.75%.
The decrease from 27.75% to 23.0% is principally attributable to the passage of Tax Reform which reduced the statutory income tax rate from 35.0% to 21.0%.
Such decrease was partially offset by lower tax deductions for certain executive compensation expenses.
Net Income.
The significant increase in consolidated Adjusted EBITDA, both in dollars and as a percentage of consolidated net sales, during the six months ended January 31, 2019 as compared to the six months ended January 31, 2018 is primarily attributable to significantly higher net sales, favorable product mix changes in both of our segments and the benefit of cost reduction actions previously initiated, as discussed above.
Nevertheless, based on expected bookings, expected timing of our performance on orders and the anticipated increase in our Government Solutions segment net sales as a percentage of consolidated net sales, we currently expect our Adjusted EBITDA, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, for fiscal 2019 to be similar to the percentage we achieved in fiscal 2018.
Our Adjusted EBITDA is a Non-GAAP measure that represents earnings (loss) before income taxes, interest (income) and other, write-off of deferred financing costs, interest expense, amortization of stock-based compensation, amortization of intangibles, depreciation expense, estimated contract settlement costs, settlement of intellectual property litigation, acquisition plan expenses or strategic alternatives analysis expenses, facility exit costs and other.
Our Non-GAAP measures for consolidated operating income, net income and net income per diluted share reflect the GAAP measures as reported, adjusted for certain items as described.
These Non-GAAP financial measures have limitations as an analytical tool as they exclude the financial impact of transactions necessary to conduct our business, such as the granting of equity compensation awards, and are not intended to be an alternative to financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
These measures are adjusted as described in the reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP in the above tables, but these adjustments should not be construed as an inference that all of these adjustments or costs are unusual, infrequent or non-recurring.
Non-GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for or superior to, financial measures determined in accordance with GAAP.
For example, quantification of stock-based compensation expense requires inputs such as the number of shares granted and market price that are not currently ascertainable.
The Credit Facility is discussed below and in "Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (11) - Credit Facility."
Our investment policy relating to our cash and cash equivalents is intended to minimize principal loss while at the same time maximize the income we receive without significantly increasing risk.
To minimize risk, we generally invest our cash and cash equivalents in money market mutual funds (both government and commercial), certificates of deposit, bank deposits, and U.S. Treasury securities.
Many of our money market mutual funds invest in direct obligations of the U.S. government, bank securities guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, certificates of deposit and commercial paper and other securities issued by other companies.
Ultimately, the availability of our cash and cash equivalents is dependent on a well-functioning liquid market.
In connection with an original $175.0 million shelf registration filed with the SEC on December 15, 2015, we sold 7.1 million shares of our common stock in a public offering at a price of $14.00 per share in June 2016, resulting in proceeds to us of $95.0 million, net of underwriting discounts and commissions.
As such shelf registration was due to expire, in December 2018, we filed a new $400.0 million shelf registration with the SEC for the sale of various types of securities, including debt.
As of January 31, 2019 and March 6, 2019, we were authorized to repurchase up to an additional $8.7 million of our common stock, pursuant to our current $100.0 million stock repurchase program.
There were no repurchases of our common stock during the three or six months ended January 31, 2019 or 2018.
On March 6, 2019, our Board of Directors declared a dividend of $0.10 per common share, payable on May 17, 2019 to stockholders of record at the close of business on April 17, 2019.
Future dividends remain subject to compliance with financial covenants under our Credit Facility as well as Board approval.
We have historically met both our short-term and long-term cash requirements with funds provided by a combination of cash and cash equivalent balances, cash generated from operating activities and cash generated from financing transactions.
On October 31, 2018, we entered into a First Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the "Credit Facility") with a syndicate of lenders, replacing our prior Credit Agreement dated as of February 23, 2016 (as amended by that certain First Amendment, dated as of June 6, 2017 (the "Prior Credit Facility")).
If we issue new unsecured debt in excess of $5.0 million with a maturity date that is less than 91 days from October 31, 2023, the Revolving Maturity Date would automatically accelerate so that it would be 91 days earlier than the maturity date of the new unsecured debt.
The proceeds of the new Credit Facility were used, in part, to repay in full the outstanding borrowings under the Prior Credit Facility, and additional proceeds of the Credit Facility are expected to be used by us for working capital and other general corporate purposes.
As of January 31, 2019, the amount outstanding under our Credit Facility was $174.5 million, which is reflected in the non-current portion of long-term debt on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
At January 31, 2019, we had $2.3 million of standby letters of credit outstanding under our Credit Facility related to our guarantees of future performance on certain customer contracts and no outstanding commercial letters of credit.
As of January 31, 2019, our Secured Leverage Ratio was 1.85x TTM Adjusted EBITDA compared to the maximum allowable Secured Leverage Ratio of 3.75x TTM Adjusted EBITDA.
Our Interest Expense Coverage Ratio as of January 31, 2019 was 12.16x TTM Adjusted EBITDA compared to the Minimum Interest Expense Coverage Ratio of 3.25x TTM Adjusted EBITDA.
Given our expected future business performance, we anticipate maintaining compliance with the terms and financial covenants in our Credit Facility for the foreseeable future.
The obligations under the Credit Facility are guaranteed by certain of our domestic subsidiaries (the "Guarantors").
As collateral security under the Credit Facility and the guarantees thereof, we and the Guarantors have granted to the administrative agent, for the benefit of the lenders, a lien on, and first priority security interest in, substantially all of our tangible and intangible assets.
On December 6, 2018, we entered into the first amendment to the Credit Facility.
The purpose of the amendment is to provide for a mechanism to replace the LIBO Rate for Eurodollar borrowings with an alternative benchmark interest rate, should the LIBO Rate generally become unavailable in the future on an other-than-temporary basis.
Capitalized terms used but not defined herein have the meanings set forth for such terms in the Credit Facility and the Prior Credit Facility, which have been documented and filed with the SEC.
In the normal course of business, other than as discussed below, we routinely enter into binding and non-binding purchase obligations primarily covering anticipated purchases of inventory and equipment.
We do not expect that these commitments, as of January 31, 2019, will materially adversely affect our liquidity.
As discussed further in "Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (18) - Stockholders’ Equity," on March 6, 2019, our Board of Directors declared a dividend of $0.10 per common share, payable on May 17, 2019 to stockholders of record at the close of business on April 17, 2019.
Future dividends remain subject to compliance with financial covenants under our Credit Facility as well as Board approval.
At January 31, 2019, we have approximately $2.3 million of standby letters of credit outstanding under our Credit Facility related to our guarantees of future performance on certain customer contracts.
Such amounts are not included in the above table.
As discussed in "Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (10) - Cost Reduction Actions," during the three months ended October 31, 2018, we exited our Government Solutions segment's manufacturing facility located in Tampa, Florida and recorded a related charge of $1.4 million in selling, general and administrative expenses on our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations.
As of January 31, 2019, the remaining estimated facility exit costs amounted to $1.2 million, of which $0.8 million and $0.4 million, respectively, was included in "accrued expenses and other current liabilities" and "other liabilities (non-current)" on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Such amounts are not shown in the above commitment table.
It is not possible to determine the maximum potential amount under these agreements due to a history of nominal claims in the Comtech legacy business and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement.
As discussed further in "Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (19) - Legal Proceedings and Other Matters," TCS is a party to a number of indemnification matters and we are incurring ongoing legal expenses in connection with these matters.
Our insurance policies may not cover the cost of defending indemnification claims or providing indemnification.
We have change in control agreements, severance agreements and indemnification agreements with certain of our executive officers and certain key employees.
All of these agreements may require payments by us, in certain circumstances, including, but not limited to, a change in control of our Company or an involuntary termination of employment without cause.
Our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of January 31, 2019 includes total liabilities of $7.5 million for uncertain tax positions, including interest, any or all of which may result in a cash payment.
The future payments related to uncertain tax positions have not been presented in the table above due to the uncertainty of the amounts and timing of any potential cash settlement with the taxing authorities.
We are required to prepare our condensed consolidated financial statements in accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") which is the source for all authoritative U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, which is commonly referred to as "GAAP."
The FASB ASC is subject to updates by the FASB, which are known as Accounting Standards Updates ("ASUs").
2014-09 "Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)."
See "Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (4) -Revenue," for further information.
2016-16, issued in October 2016, which eliminates a prior exception and now requires an entity to recognize the income tax consequences of an intra-entity transfer of an asset other than inventory (for example, intellectual property and property, plant and equipment) when the transfer occurs.
There was no material impact to our condensed consolidated financial statements (including any cumulative-effect adjustment) and disclosures upon such adoption.
33-10532 "Disclosure Update and Simplification," which revised certain of the SEC’s disclosure requirements that have become superseded in light of other SEC and or U.S. GAAP disclosure requirements.
As a result of the final rule’s amendments, the SEC now requires a registrant to reconcile its changes in stockholders' equity for both the current and comparative interim and year-to-date periods, with subtotals.
Our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity for the three and six months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018 reflect our adoption of this final rule.
2016-13 issued in June 2016 and ASU No.
All entities may adopt the amendments in this ASU earlier as of the fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years.
We are evaluating the impact of this ASU on our condensed consolidated financial statements and disclosures.
2017-11, issued in July 2017, which provides guidance on the accounting for certain financial instruments with embedded features that result in the strike price of the instrument or embedded conversion option being reduced on the basis of the pricing of future equity offerings (commonly referred to as "down round" features).
2017-12, issued in August 2017, which expands and refines hedge accounting for both nonfinancial and financial risk components and simplifies and aligns the recognition and presentation of the effects of the hedging instrument and the hedged item in the financial statements.
This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018 (our fiscal year beginning on August 1, 2019) and for interim periods therein, with early adoption permitted.
2018-07, issued in June 2018, which expands the scope of Topic 718 to include certain share-based payment transactions for acquiring goods and services from nonemployees.
An entity should only remeasure liability-classified awards that have not been settled by the date of adoption and equity-classified awards for which a measurement date has not been established, through a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption.
2018-13, issued in August 2018, which modifies the disclosure requirements for fair value measurements in Topic 820.
This ASU is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2019 (our fiscal year beginning on August 1, 2020).
Upon the effective date, certain provisions are to be applied prospectively, while others are to be applied retrospectively to all periods presented.
An entity is permitted to early adopt any removed or modified disclosures upon issuance of this ASU and delay adoption of the additional disclosures until their effective date.
We are evaluating the impact of this ASU on our condensed consolidated financial statement disclosures.
2018-15, issued in August 2018, which aligns the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal use software (and hosting arrangements that include an internal use software license).
This ASU should be applied either retrospectively or prospectively to all implementation costs incurred after the date of adoption.
We are evaluating the impact of this ASU on our condensed consolidated financial statements and disclosures.
2018-16, issued in October 2018, which expands the list of eligible U.S. benchmark interest rates permitted in the application of hedge accounting due to broad concerns about the long-term sustainability of the LIBO Rate.
This ASU adds the Overnight Index Swap ("OIS") rate, based on the Secured Overnight Financing Rate ("SOFR"), as an eligible U.S. benchmark interest rate.
This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018 (our fiscal year beginning on August 1, 2019) and for interim periods therein, with early adoption permitted.
2018-17, issued in October 2018, which requires entities to consider indirect interests held through related parties under common control on a proportional basis, rather than as the equivalent of a direct interest in its entirety when determining whether a decision-making fee is a variable interest.
This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019 (our fiscal year beginning on August 1, 2020) and for interim periods therein, with early adoption permitted.
The ASU also precludes entities from presenting consideration from transactions with a collaborator that is not a customer together with revenue recognized from contracts with customers.
This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019 (our fiscal year beginning on August 1, 2020) and for interim periods therein, with early adoption permitted.
Exhibit 31.2 - Certification pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
Exhibit 32.2 - Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
