The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements of Comtech Telecommunications Corp. and its subsidiaries ("Comtech," "we," "us," or "our") as of and for the three months ended October 31, 2018 and 2017 are unaudited.
Certain reclassifications have been made to previously reported condensed consolidated financial statements to conform to the current fiscal period presentation.
2016-16 “Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory,” which eliminates a prior exception and now requires an entity to recognize the income tax consequences of an intra-entity transfer of an asset other than inventory (for example, intellectual property and property, plant and equipment) when the transfer occurs.
There was no material impact to our consolidated financial statements (including any cumulative-effect adjustment) and disclosures upon such adoption.
•Over time - We recognize revenue using the over time method when there is a continuous transfer of control to the customer over the contractual period of performance.
This generally occurs when we enter into a long-term contract relating to the design, development or manufacture of complex equipment or technology platforms to a buyer’s specification (or to provide services related to the performance of such contracts).
Continuous transfer of control is typically supported by contract clauses which allow our customers to unilaterally terminate a contract for convenience, pay for costs incurred plus a reasonable profit and take control of work-in-process.
Revenue recognized over time is generally based on the extent of progress toward completion of the related performance obligations.
The selection of the method to measure progress requires judgment and is based on the nature of the products or services provided.
In certain instances, typically for firm fixed-price contracts, we use the cost-to-cost measure because it best depicts the transfer of control to the customer which occurs as we incur costs on our contracts.
Under the cost-to-cost measure, the extent of progress toward completion is measured based on the ratio of costs incurred to date to the total estimated costs at completion, including warranty costs.
When these contracts are modified, the additional goods or services are generally not distinct from those already provided.
For over time contracts using a cost-to-cost measure of progress, we have an estimate at completion (“EAC”) process in which management reviews the progress and execution of our performance obligations.
This EAC process requires management judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract revenue and costs, and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues.
Since certain contracts extend over a long period of time, the impact of revisions in revenue and or cost estimates during the progress of work may impact current period earnings through a cumulative adjustment.
Additionally, if the EAC process indicates a loss, a provision is made for the total anticipated loss in the period that it becomes evident.
Contract revenue and cost estimates for significant contracts are generally reviewed and reassessed at least quarterly.
The cost-to-cost method is principally used to account for contracts in our command and control solutions and over-the-horizon microwave systems product lines and, to a lesser extent, certain location based and messaging infrastructure contracts in our enterprise technology solutions product line.
For service-based contracts in both our enterprise technology solutions and safety and security technology solutions product lines, we recognize revenue over time.
These services are typically recognized as a series of services performed over the contract term using the straight-line method, or based on our customers’ actual usage of the networks and platforms which we provide.
Point in time accounting is principally applied to contracts in our satellite earth station product line (which includes satellite modems, traveling wave tube amplifiers (“TWTAs”) and solid-state power amplifiers ("SSPAs")) and solid-state high-power narrow and broadband amplifiers.
Point in time accounting is also applied to certain contracts in our command and control solutions product line.
The contracts related to these product lines do not meet the requirements for over time revenue recognition because our customers cannot utilize the equipment for its intended purpose during any phase of our manufacturing process; customers do not simultaneously receive and or consume the benefits provided by our performance; customers do not control the asset (i.e., prior to delivery, customers cannot direct the use of the asset, sell or exchange the equipment, etc.
); and, although many of our contracts have termination for convenience clauses and or an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date, our performance creates an asset with an alternative use through the point of delivery.
Finished products are either configured to our standard configuration or based on our customers’ specifications.
When identifying performance obligations, we consider whether there are multiple promises and how to account for them.
In our contracts, multiple promises are separated if they are distinct, both individually and in the context of the contract.
If multiple promises in a contract are highly interrelated or comprise a series of distinct services performed over time, they are combined into a single performance obligation.
In some cases, we may also provide the customer with an additional service-type warranty, which we recognize as a separate performance obligation.
When service-type warranties represent a separate performance obligation, the revenue is deferred and recognized ratably over the extended warranty period.
Our contracts, from time-to-time, may also include options for additional goods and services.
To-date, these options have not represented material rights to the customer as the pricing for them reflects standalone selling prices.
As a result, we do not consider options we offer to be performance obligations for which we must allocate a portion of the transaction price.
In many cases, we provide assurance-type warranty coverage for some of our products for a period of at least one year from the date of delivery.
When identifying the transaction price, we typically utilize the contract's stated price as a starting point.
The transaction price in certain arrangements may include estimated amounts of variable consideration, including award fees, incentive fees or other provisions that can either increase or decrease the transaction price.
When allocating the contract’s transaction price, we consider each distinct performance obligation.
For contracts with multiple performance obligations, we allocate the contract’s transaction price to each performance obligation using our best estimate of the standalone selling price of each distinct good or service in the contract.
We determine standalone selling price based on the price at which the performance obligation is sold separately.
If the standalone selling price is not observable through past transactions, we estimate the standalone selling price taking into account available information such as market conditions, including geographic or regional specific factors, competitive positioning, internal costs, profit objectives and internally approved pricing guidelines related to the performance obligations.
Sales to U.S. government customers include sales to the U.S. Department of Defense ("DoD"), intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as sales directly to or through prime contractors.
Domestic sales include sales to commercial customers, as well as to U.S. state and local governments.
Included in domestic sales, are sales to Verizon Communications Inc. ("Verizon").
Sales to Verizon were 11.7% of consolidated net sales for the three months ended October 31, 2017. International sales for the three months ended October 31, 2018 and 2017 include sales to U.S. domestic companies for inclusion in products that are sold to international customers.
Under typical payment terms for our contracts accounted for over time, amounts are billed as work progresses in accordance with agreed-upon contractual terms, either at periodic intervals (e.g., monthly) or upon achievement of contractual milestones.
For certain contracts with provisions that are intended to protect customers in the event we do not satisfy our performance obligations, billings occur subsequent to revenue recognition, resulting in what we have historically presented as unbilled receivables.
On large long term contracts, and for contracts with international customers that do not do business with us regularly, payment terms typically require advanced payments and deposits.
Under ASC 606, payments received from customers in excess of revenue recognized to-date results in a contract liability.
These contract liabilities are not considered to represent a significant financing component of the contract because we believe these cash advances and deposits are generally used to meet working capital demands which can be higher in the earlier stages of a contract.
Also, advanced payments and deposits provide us with some measure of assurance that the customer will perform on its obligations under the contract.
Under the typical payment terms for our contracts accounted for at a point in time, costs are accumulated in inventory until the time of billing, which generally coincides with revenue recognition.
We recognize the incremental costs to obtain or fulfill a contract as expense when incurred if the amortization period of the asset is one year or less.
Incremental costs to obtain or fulfill contracts with an amortization period greater than one year were not material.
Commissions payable to our third party sales representatives related to large long-term contracts are included in total estimated costs at completion for such contracts and are expensed over time through cost of sales on our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations, as we consider these types of commissions direct and incremental costs to obtain and fulfill such contracts.
Using the fair value hierarchy described in FASB ASC 820 "Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures," we valued our cash and cash equivalents using Level 1 inputs that were based on quoted market prices.
The fair value of our Credit Facility that we entered into on October 31, 2018 approximates its carrying amount due to its variable interest rate and pricing grid that is dependent upon our leverage ratio as of the end of each fiscal quarter.
We believe the fair value of our non-current portion of capital lease and other obligations, which currently has a blended interest rate of 7.1%, would not be materially different than its carrying value as of October 31, 2018.
Our basic earnings per share ("EPS") is computed based on the weighted average number of common shares (including vested but unissued stock units, share units, performance shares and restricted stock units ("RSUs")), outstanding during each respective period.
Our diluted EPS reflects the dilution from potential common stock issuable pursuant to the exercise of equity-classified stock-based awards, if dilutive, outstanding during each respective period.
Pursuant to FASB ASC 260 "Earnings Per Share," equity-classified stock-based awards that are subject to performance conditions are not considered in our diluted EPS calculations until the respective performance conditions have been satisfied.
When calculating our diluted earnings per share, we consider the amount an employee must pay upon assumed exercise of stock-based awards and the amount of stock-based compensation cost attributed to future services and not yet recognized.
There were no purchases of our common stock during the three months ended October 31, 2018 or 2017.
See Note (17) - "Stockholders’ Equity" for more information.
Our EPS calculations exclude 236,000 and 252,000 weighted average performance shares outstanding for the three months ended October 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, as the performance conditions have not yet been satisfied.
However, the compensation expense related to these awards is included in net income (loss) (the numerator) for EPS calculations for each respective period.
Unbilled receivables as of October 31, 2018 relate to contracts-in-progress for which revenue has been recognized, but for which we have not yet earned the right to bill the customer for work performed to-date.
Under ASC 606, which we adopted on August 1, 2018 (see Note (3) - “Revenue”), unbilled receivables constitute contract assets.
Management estimates that substantially all amounts not yet billed at October 31, 2018 will be billed and collected within one year.
Of the unbilled receivables from commercial and international customers at October 31, 2018 and July 31, 2018, approximately $1,592,000 and $1,558,000, respectively, relates to a large over-the-horizon microwave system contract with our large U.S. prime contractor customer (all of which related to our North African country end-customer).
As of October 31, 2018, except for the U.S. government (and its agencies), which represented 39.5% of total accounts receivable, there were no other customers which accounted for greater than 10.0% of total accounts receivable.
As of July 31, 2018, the U.S. government (and its agencies) and Verizon represented 30.9% and 10.1%, respectively, of total accounts receivable.
As of October 31, 2018 and July 31, 2018, the amount of inventory directly related to long-term contracts (including contracts-in-progress) was $1,235,000 and $1,249,000, respectively, and the amount of inventory related to contracts from third party commercial customers who outsource their manufacturing to us was $1,334,000 and $1,310,000, respectively.
On August 1, 2018, in connection with our adoption of ASC 606, $2,079,000 of accrued expenses and other current liabilities were reclassified to contract liabilities on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Of this total amount, $1,679,000 and $400,000, respectively, was reclassified from the “accrued warranty obligations” and “other” categories presented in the above table to contract liabilities as they represented deferred revenue related to service-type warranty performance obligations.
See Note (3) - "Revenue" for further discussion of our adoption of ASC 606.
Accrued legal costs as of October 31, 2018 and July 31, 2018 include $3,314,000 and $3,372,000, respectively, related to estimated costs associated with certain TeleCommunication Systems, Inc. ("TCS") intellectual property matters.
The accrued potential settlement costs do not reflect the final amounts we may actually pay.
TCS intellectual property matters are discussed in more detail in Note (18) - "Legal Proceedings and Other Matters."
Accrued warranty obligations as of October 31, 2018 relate to estimated liabilities for assurance-type warranty coverage that we provide to our customers.
We generally provide warranty coverage for some of our products for a period of at least one year from the date of delivery.
During the three months ended three months ended October 31, 2018, we took steps to improve our future operating results and we successfully consolidated our Government Solutions segment’s manufacturing facility located in Tampa, Florida with another facility that we maintain in Orlando, Florida; and in doing so, incurred $1,373,000 of facility exit costs, which are recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses on our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
On October 31, 2018, we entered into a First Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the “Credit Facility”) with a syndicate of lenders, replacing our prior Credit Agreement dated as of February 23, 2016 (as amended by that certain First Amendment, dated as of June 6, 2017 (the “Prior Credit Facility”)).
In connection with the establishment of our new Credit Facility, we wrote-off $3,217,000 of deferred financing costs primarily related to the Term Loan Facility portion of our Prior Credit Facility and capitalized deferred financing costs of $1,812,000 related to the new Credit Facility.
If we issue new unsecured debt in excess of $5,000,000 with a maturity date that is less than 91 days from October 31, 2023, the Revolving Maturity Date would automatically accelerate so that it would be 91 days earlier than the maturity date of the new unsecured debt.
The proceeds of the new Credit Facility were used, in part, to repay in full the outstanding borrowings under the Prior Credit Facility, and additional proceeds of the Credit Facility are expected to be used by us for working capital and other general corporate purposes.
As of October 31, 2018, the amount outstanding under our Credit Facility was $193,400,000, which is reflected in the non-current portion of long-term debt on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
As of October 31, 2018, total net deferred financing costs related to the Credit Facility were $3,678,000 and will be amortized over the term of our Credit Facility through October 31, 2023.
As of October 31, 2018, our Secured Leverage Ratio was 2.25x TTM Adjusted EBITDA compared to the maximum allowable Secured Leverage Ratio of 3.75x TTM Adjusted EBITDA.
Given our expected future business performance, we anticipate maintaining compliance with the terms and financial covenants in our Credit Facility for the foreseeable future.
The obligations under the Credit Facility are guaranteed by certain of our domestic subsidiaries (the “Guarantors”).
As collateral security under the Credit Facility and the guarantees thereof, we and the Guarantors have granted to the administrative agent, for the benefit of the lenders, a lien on, and first priority security interest in, substantially all of our tangible and intangible assets.
On December 6, 2018, we entered into the first amendment to the Credit Facility.
The purpose of the amendment is to provide for a mechanism to replace the LIBO rate for Eurodollar borrowings with an alternative benchmark interest rate, should the LIBO rate generally become unavailable in the future on an other-than-temporary basis.
The proceeds of the Prior Credit Facility were primarily used to finance our acquisition of TCS, including the repayment of certain existing indebtedness of TCS.
Under the Revolving Loan Facility, during the three months ended October 31, 2018, we had outstanding balances ranging from $34,904,000 to $63,804,000.
Capitalized terms used but not defined herein have the meanings set forth for such terms in the Credit Facility and the Prior Credit Facility, which have been documented and filed with the SEC.
We lease certain equipment under capital leases.
As of October 31, 2018 and July 31, 2018, the net book value of the leased assets which collateralize the capital lease and other obligations was $2,001,000 and $2,547,000, respectively, and consisted primarily of machinery and equipment.
Our capital leases generally contain provisions whereby we can purchase the equipment at the end of the lease for a one dollar buyout.
As such, our effective tax rate for accounting purposes in fiscal 2018, excluding discrete items, was 27.0%.
The estimated impact recorded in fiscal 2018 will change if the timing of the deferred tax impacts shift between fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2019 and beyond.
At October 31, 2018 and July 31, 2018, total unrecognized tax benefits were $7,324,000 and $9,339,000, respectively, including interest of $52,000 and $202,000, respectively.
The remaining unrecognized tax benefits of $6,917,000 and $6,767,000 at October 31, 2018 and July 31, 2018, respectively, were presented as an offset to the associated non-current deferred tax assets in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
As of October 31, 2018, the aggregate number of shares of common stock which may be issued, pursuant to the Plan, may not exceed 10,362,500.
Stock options granted may not have a term exceeding ten years or, in the case of an incentive stock award granted to a stockholder who owns stock representing more than 10.0% of the voting power, no more than five years.
Our ESPP is intended to provide our eligible employees the opportunity to acquire our common stock at 85% of fair market value at the date of issuance.
Total stock-based compensation capitalized and included in ending inventory at both October 31, 2018 and July 31, 2018 was $48,000.
There are no liability-classified stock-based awards outstanding as of October 31, 2018 or July 31, 2018.
ESPP stock-based compensation expense primarily relates to the 15% discount offered to participants in the ESPP.
During the three months ended October 31, 2018 and 2017, we recorded benefits of $130,000 and $62,000, respectively, which primarily represents the recoupment of certain share units.
Such deferred tax asset was recorded net as part of our non-current deferred tax liability in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of October 31, 2018 and July 31, 2018.
Stock options outstanding as of October 31, 2018 have exercise prices ranging from $20.90 to $33.94, representing the fair market value of our common stock on the date of grant, a contractual term of five or ten years and a vesting period of three or five years.
The total intrinsic value relating to stock options exercised during the three months ended October 31, 2018 was $561,000.
There were no stock options exercised during the three months ended October 31, 2017.
There were no stock options granted since fiscal 2017.
During the three months ended October 31, 2018, at the election of certain holders of vested stock options, 72,830 stock options were net settled upon exercise.
As a result, 9,345 net shares of our common stock were issued during the three months ended October 31, 2018 after reduction of shares retained to satisfy the exercise price and minimum statutory tax withholding requirements.
The total intrinsic value relating to fully-vested awards settled during the three months ended October 31, 2018 and 2017 was $4,210,000 and $1,937,000, respectively.
The performance shares granted to employees since fiscal 2014 principally vest over a three-year performance period, if pre-established performance goals are attained or as specified pursuant to the Plan and related agreements.
As of October 31, 2018, the number of outstanding performance shares included in the above table, and the related compensation expense prior to consideration of estimated pre-vesting forfeitures, assume achievement of the pre-established goals at a target level.
RSUs and restricted stock granted to non-employee directors have a vesting period of three years and are convertible into shares of our common stock generally at the time of termination, on a one-for-one basis for no cash consideration, or earlier under certain circumstances.
RSUs granted to employees have a vesting period of five years and are convertible into shares of our common stock, generally at the time of vesting, on a one-for-one basis for no cash consideration.
Share units granted prior to July 31, 2017 were vested when issued and are convertible into shares of our common stock, generally at the time of termination, on a one-for-one basis for no cash consideration, or earlier under certain circumstances.
Share units granted on or after July 31, 2017 were granted to certain employees in lieu of non-equity incentive compensation and are convertible into shares of our common stock on the one-year anniversary of the respective grant date.
Cumulatively through October 31, 2018, 270,979 share units granted have been settled.
The fair value of performance shares, RSUs, restricted stock and share units is determined using the closing market price of our common stock on the date of grant, less the present value of any estimated future dividend equivalents such awards are not entitled to receive and an applicable estimated discount for post vesting restrictions.
RSUs, performance shares and restricted stock granted since fiscal 2013 are entitled to dividend equivalents unless forfeited before vesting occurs; however, performance shares granted in fiscal 2013 were not entitled to such dividend equivalents until our Board of Directors determined that the pre-established performance goals were met.
Dividend equivalents are subject to forfeiture, similar to the terms of the underlying stock-based awards, and are payable in cash generally at the time of settlement of the underlying shares into shares of our common stock.
During the three months ended October 31, 2018, we accrued $82,000 of dividend equivalents (net of forfeitures) and paid out $259,000.
Accrued dividend equivalents were recorded as a reduction to retained earnings.
As of October 31, 2018 and July 31, 2018, accrued dividend equivalents were $536,000 and $713,000, respectively.
The management approach, as defined by FASB ASC 280 "Segment Reporting" is based on the way that the CODM organizes the segments within an enterprise for making decisions about resources to be allocated and assessing their performance.
Our CODM, for purposes of FASB ASC 280, is our Chief Executive Officer and President.
Our Commercial Solutions segment serves commercial customers and smaller government customers, such as state and local governments, that require advanced communication technologies to meet their needs.
This segment also serves certain large government customers (including the U.S. government) that have requirements for off-the-shelf commercial equipment.
We believe this segment is a leading provider of satellite communications (such as satellite earth station modems and TWTAs), public safety systems (such as NG911 technologies) and enterprise application technologies (such as messaging and trusted location-based technologies).
Our Government Solutions segment serves large government end-users (including those of foreign countries) that require mission-critical technologies and systems.
Government solutions products include command and control applications (such as the design, installation and operation of data networks that integrate computing and communications, including both satellite and terrestrial links), ongoing network operation and management support services (including project management and fielding and maintenance solutions related to satellite ground terminals), troposcatter communications (such as digital troposcatter multiplexers, digital over-the-horizon modems, troposcatter systems and frequency converter systems) and RF power and switching technologies (such as solid-state high-power broadband amplifiers, enhanced position location reporting system (commonly known as "EPLRS") amplifier assemblies, identification friend or foe ("IFF") amplifiers and amplifiers used in the counteraction of improvised explosive devices).
During the three months ended October 31, 2018, we exited our Government Solutions segment's manufacturing facility located in Tampa, Florida and recorded a related charge of $1,373,000 in selling, general and administrative expenses on our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
See Note (9) - "Cost Reduction Actions."
There is no certainty that our acquisition plan efforts will be successful.
Interest expense for the three months ended October 31, 2018 and 2017 includes $2,542,000 and $2,465,000, respectively, principally related to our Prior Credit Facility and includes amortization of deferred financing costs.
In addition, on October 31, 2018, we recorded a $3,217,000 loss from the write-off of deferred financing costs primarily related to the Term Loan Facility portion of our Prior Credit Facility.
See Note (10) - "Credit Facility" for further discussion.
Intersegment sales for the three months ended October 31, 2018 and 2017 by the Commercial Solutions segment to the Government Solutions segment were $8,540,000 and $2,621,000, respectively.
There were nominal sales by the Government Solutions segment to the Commercial Solutions segment for these periods.
All intersegment sales are eliminated in consolidation and are excluded from the tables above.
Unallocated assets at October 31, 2018 consist principally of cash and cash equivalents, income taxes receivable, corporate property, plant and equipment and deferred financing costs.
In accordance with FASB ASC 350 "Intangibles - Goodwill and Other," we perform a goodwill impairment analysis at least annually (in the first quarter of each fiscal year), unless indicators of impairment exist in interim periods.
If we fail the quantitative assessment of goodwill impairment ("quantitative assessment"), pursuant to our adoption of FASB ASU No.
2017-04 in fiscal 2017, we would be required to recognize an impairment loss equal to the amount that a reporting unit's carrying value exceeded its fair value; however, any loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.
On August 1, 2018 (the first day of our fiscal 2019), we performed our annual quantitative assessment using market participant assumptions to determine if the fair value of each of our reporting units with goodwill exceeded its carrying value.
In performing the quantitative assessment, we estimated the fair value of each of our reporting units using a combination of the income and market approaches.
The discount rates used in our DCF method were based on a weighted-average cost of capital ("WACC") determined from relevant market comparisons, adjusted upward for specific reporting unit risks (primarily the uncertainty of achieving projected operating cash flows).
A terminal value growth rate was applied to the final year of the projected period and reflected our estimate of stable, perpetual growth.
We then calculated a present value of the respective cash flows for each reporting unit to arrive at an estimate of fair value under the income approach.
Under the market approach, we estimated a fair value based on comparable companies' market multiples of revenues and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization and factored in a control premium.
Based on our quantitative evaluation, we determined that our Commercial Solutions and Government Solutions reporting units had estimated fair values in excess of their carrying values of at least 42.5% and 105.5%, respectively, and concluded that our goodwill was not impaired and that neither of our two reporting units was at risk of failing the quantitative assessment.
In any event, we are required to perform the next annual goodwill impairment analysis on August 1, 2019 (the start of our fiscal 2020).
Amortization expense for the three months ended October 31, 2018 and 2017 was $4,289,000 and $5,269,000, respectively.
No such event has occurred during the three months ended October 31, 2018.
We believe that the carrying values of our net intangible assets were recoverable as of October 31, 2018.
As of October 31, 2018 and December 6, 2018, an aggregate registered amount of $74,970,000 under our existing shelf registration statement filed with the SEC remains available for sale of various types of securities, including debt.
This existing shelf registration is expected to expire on December 23, 2018.
As such, on December 6, 2018, we filed a new $400,000,000 shelf registration statement with the SEC for the sale of various types of securities, including debt.
As of October 31, 2018 and December 6, 2018, we were authorized to repurchase up to an additional $8,664,000 of our common stock, pursuant to our current $100,000,000 stock repurchase program.
There were no repurchases made during the three months ended October 31, 2018 or 2017.
Since September 2010, we have paid quarterly dividends pursuant to an annual targeted dividend amount that was established by our Board of Directors.
Future dividends remain subject to compliance with financial covenants under our Credit Facility as well as Board approval.
In December 2009, Vehicle IP, LLC ("Vehicle IP") filed a patent infringement lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware (the "District Court"), seeking monetary damages, fees and expenses and other relief from, among others, our customer Verizon Wireless ("Verizon"), based on the VZ Navigator product, and TCS is defending Verizon against Vehicle IP.
In 2013, the District Court granted the defendants’ motion for summary judgment on the basis that the products in question did not infringe plaintiff’s patent.
The accrued settlement costs related to this matter do not reflect the final amounts we actually may pay, if any.
On May 30, 2017, we received positive news that the District Court issued a supplemental claim construction order in our favor.
On July 28, 2017, the parties entered into a stipulation that the defendants’ accused products do not infringe Vehicle IP’s patent under the District Court’s current revised construction of the disputed patent claim term and requested that the District Court therefore enter a judgment of noninfringement.
As expected, following the judgment, Vehicle IP filed a notice of appeal on August 29, 2017.
Oral argument was held on August 8, 2018 and an appellate ruling may take several months to be issued.
If the District Court's current claim construction is ultimately upheld at the appellate level, it is possible that we may not have to go to trial or pay any monetary damages.
In October 2014, we disclosed to the U.S. Department of the Treasury, Office of Foreign Assets Control ("OFAC") that we learned during a self-assessment of our export transactions that a shipment of modems sent to a Canadian customer by Comtech EF Data Corp. was incorporated into a communication system, the ultimate end user of which was the Sudan Civil Aviation Authority.
The sales value of this equipment was approximately $288,000.
At the time of shipment, OFAC regulations prohibited U.S. persons from doing business directly or indirectly with Sudan.
We have responded to the subpoena, including alerting OFAC to Comtech’s repair of three modems for a customer in Lebanon who may have rerouted the modems from Lebanon to Sudan without the required U.S. licensing authorization.
The Tolling Agreement was shortly followed by a second administrative subpoena seeking additional information about the disclosed transaction.
We are in the process of responding to OFAC’s additional request for information.
U.S. sanctions with respect to Sudan were revoked in 2017.
Consistent with the revocation of the Sudan Sanction Regulations ("SSR"), shipments to the Sudan Civil Aviation Authority by U.S. persons are now permissible.
If OFAC determines that we have violated U.S. trade sanctions, civil and criminal penalties could apply, and we may suffer reputational harm.
Even though we take precautions to avoid engaging in transactions that may violate U.S. trade sanctions, those measures may not be effective in every instance.
In May 2018, we were informed by the Office of Export Enforcement ("OEE") of the Department of Commerce ("DoC") that it was forwarding to the DoC's Office of Chief Counsel, the results of its audit of international shipments by Comtech Xicom Technology, Inc. for further review and possible determination of an administrative penalty.
These six (6) items, for which export licenses were not obtained, were either spares or repaired power amplifier subassembly components valued at less than $100,000 (in aggregate) and were shipped to Brazil, Italy, Russia, Thailand and the United Arab Emirates.
The EAR provides an exception to the requirement to obtain an export license for the replacement of a defective or damaged component.
During our self-assessment, we determined that we inadvertently did not obtain export licenses for the spares, or had evidence of the return or destruction of the defective or damaged components necessary to authorize our use of the export license exception for the replacements.
Since discovering this issue, we have implemented additional controls and procedures and have increased awareness of these specific export requirements throughout the Company to help avoid similar occurrences in the future.
Administrative penalties under the EAR can range from a warning letter to a denial of export privileges.
A civil monetary penalty not to exceed the amount set forth in the Export Administration Act ("EAA") may be imposed for each violation, and in the event that any provision of the EAR is continued by any other authority, the maximum monetary civil penalty for each violation shall be that provided by such other authority.
Administrative penalties under the EAR are currently determined pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act ("IEEPA"), which can reach the greater of twice the amount of the transaction that is the basis of the violation or approximately $300,000 per violation.
We have not recorded an accrual related to a possible administrative penalty and continue to work cooperatively with the OEE.
We may also, from time to time, receive indemnification requests from customer related to third-party claims that 911 calls were improperly routed during an emergency.
We evaluate such claims as and when they arise.
We do not always agree with customers that they are entitled to indemnification and in such cases reject their claims.
There are certain other pending and threatened legal actions which arise in the normal course of business.
See "Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (18) - Legal Proceedings and Other Matters," of this Form 10-Q for information regarding legal proceedings and other matters.
There have been no material changes from the risk factors previously disclosed in our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2018.
