fls.txt
The ASU introduces a new forward-looking approach, based on expected losses, to estimate credit losses on certain types of financial instruments, including trade receivables.
The analysis includes identifying pools of receivables, evaluating and assessing estimation methodologies, assessing policy elections, and evaluating its business processes and internal controls to meet the ASU’s accounting, reporting and disclosure requirements.


item1.txt
Throughout this report, the terms the "Company" and "CDW" refer to Parent and its 100% owned subsidiaries.
The accompanying unaudited interim Consolidated Financial Statements as of September 30, 2019 and for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 (the "Consolidated Financial Statements") have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") and the rules and regulations of the US Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") for interim financial statements.
All intercompany transactions and accounts are eliminated in consolidation.
Except as noted below for the adoption of Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2016-02, Leases ("Topic 842"), there have been no material changes to the Company's significant accounting policies and estimates during the nine months ended September 30, 2019.
The Company enters into operating lease contracts, as assessed at contract inception, primarily for real estate, data centers and equipment.
In determining the present value of future lease payments, the Company uses its incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at the commencement date.
In assessing the lease term, the Company includes options to renew only when it is reasonably certain that it will be exercised; a determination which is at the sole discretion of the Company.
For equipment leases used in revenue generating activities, the Company will record a right-of-use asset and lease liability for leases with a term of 12 months or less.
In June 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued ASU 2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments.
The ASU introduces a new forward-looking approach, based on expected losses, to estimate credit losses on certain types of financial instruments, including trade receivables.


item2.txt
See "Forward-Looking Statements" at the end of this discussion.
We are technology "agnostic," with a broad portfolio including more than 100,000 products and services from more than 1,000 leading and emerging brands.
Our solutions are delivered in physical, virtual and cloud-based environments through over 6,000 customer-facing coworkers, including sellers, highly-skilled technology specialists and advanced service delivery engineers.
We are a leading sales channel partner for many original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"), software publishers and cloud providers (collectively, our "vendor partners"), whose products we sell or include in the solutions we offer.
We provide our vendor partners with a cost-effective way to reach customers and deliver a consistent brand experience through our established end-market coverage, technical expertise and extensive customer access.
This is particularly the case for our Corporate and Small Business customers, as their purchases tend to reflect confidence in their business prospects, which are driven by their discrete perceptions of business and general economic conditions.
There continues to be substantial uncertainty regarding the impact of the UK's planned withdrawal from the European Union ("EU") (referred to as "Brexit").
We have established a presence on the continent to support CDW UK's broader growth opportunities in the EU.
This also serves as a contingency plan to address future developments as needed around Brexit.
•Changes in spending policies, budget priorities and funding levels are a key factor influencing the purchasing levels of government, healthcare and education customers.
•Technology trends drive customer purchasing behaviors in the market.
These trends are driving customer adoption of solutions such as those delivered via cloud, software defined architectures and hybrid on-premise and off-premise combinations, as well as the evolution of the IT consumption model to more "as a service" offerings, including Device as a Service ("DaaS") and managed services.
Effective January 1, 2019, we made a change to the Non-GAAP financial measures that we use to provide meaningful methods of evaluating our financial performance and have replaced EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin with Non-GAAP operating income and Non-GAAP operating income margin.
We made this change due to the continuing evolution of the IT consumption model.
Non-GAAP operating income is also being used for the first time in 2019 as a key business metric for our annual incentive compensation programs.
In addition to Non-GAAP operating income and Non-GAAP operating income margin, we believe that the most important financial and non-financial measures and ratios include average daily sales, gross margin, operating margin, Net income, Non-GAAP income before income taxes, Non-GAAP net income, Net income per diluted share, Non-GAAP net income per diluted share, free cash flow, return on working capital, Cash and cash equivalents, net working capital, cash conversion cycle (defined to be days of sales outstanding in Accounts receivable and certain receivables due from vendors plus days of supply in Merchandise inventory minus days of purchases outstanding in Accounts payable and Accounts payable-inventory financing, based on a rolling three-month average), debt levels including available credit, sales per coworker and coworker turnover.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
Item 1.


