fls.txt
The ASU introduces a new forward-looking approach, based on expected losses, to estimate credit losses on certain types of financial instruments, including trade receivables.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact the ASU will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements.


item1.txt
CDW Corporation ("Parent") is a Fortune 500 company with multi-national capabilities and a leading provider of integrated information technology ("IT") solutions to small, medium and large business, government, education and healthcare customers in the United States ("US"), the United Kingdom ("UK") and Canada.
The Company's offerings range from discrete hardware and software products to integrated IT solutions such as mobility, security, data center optimization, cloud computing, virtualization and collaboration.
Throughout this report, the terms the "Company" and "CDW" refer to Parent and its 100% owned subsidiaries.
The accompanying unaudited interim Consolidated Financial Statements as of March 31, 2019 and for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 (the "Consolidated Financial Statements") have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") and the rules and regulations of the US Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") for interim financial statements.
All intercompany transactions and accounts are eliminated in consolidation.
Except as noted below for the adoption of Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2016-02, Leases ("Topic 842"), there have been no material changes to the Company's significant accounting policies and estimates during the three months ended March 31, 2019.
The Company enters into operating lease contracts, as assessed at contract inception, primarily for real estate, data centers and equipment.
In assessing the lease term, the Company includes options to renew only when it is reasonably certain that it will be exercised; a determination which is at the sole discretion of the Company.
For equipment leases used in revenue generating activities, the Company will record a right-of-use asset and lease liability for leases with a term of 12 months or less.
Restricted cash represents funds that are restricted to satisfy designated current liabilities.
The following table provides a reconciliation of cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash reported within the Consolidated Balance Sheets that sum to the total of the same amounts in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.


item2.txt
See "Forward-Looking Statements" at the end of this discussion.
We are technology "agnostic," with a broad portfolio including more than 100,000 products and services from more than 1,000 leading and emerging brands.
Our solutions are delivered in physical, virtual and cloud-based environments through over 6,000 customer-facing coworkers, including sellers, highly-skilled technology specialists and advanced service delivery engineers.
We are a leading sales channel partner for many original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"), software publishers and cloud providers (collectively, our "vendor partners"), whose products we sell or include in the solutions we offer.
We provide our vendor partners with a cost-effective way to reach customers and deliver a consistent brand experience through our established end-market coverage, technical expertise and extensive customer access.
This is particularly the case for our Corporate and Small Business customers, as their purchases tend to reflect confidence in their business prospects, which are driven by their discrete perceptions of business and general economic conditions.
There continues to be substantial uncertainty regarding the impact of the UK's planned withdrawal from the European Union ("EU") (referred to as "Brexit").
We have established a presence on the continent to support CDW UK's broader growth opportunities in the EU.
This also serves as a contingency plan to address future developments as needed around Brexit.
•Changes in spending policies, budget priorities and funding levels are a key factor influencing the purchasing levels of government, healthcare and education customers.
•Technology trends drive customer purchasing behaviors in the market.
These trends are driving customer adoption of solutions such as those delivered via cloud, software defined architectures and hybrid on-premise and off-premise combinations, as well as the evolution of the IT consumption model to more "as-a-service" offerings, including Device-as-a-Service ("DaaS") and managed services.
Effective January 1, 2019, we made a change to the Non-GAAP financial measures that we use to provide meaningful methods of evaluating our financial performance and have replaced EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin with Non-GAAP operating income and Non-GAAP operating income margin.
We made this change due to the continuing evolution of the IT consumption model.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
Item 1.


