fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
The accompanying Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements of HP and its wholly-owned subsidiaries are prepared in conformity with United States (“U.S.”) generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”).
The interim financial information is unaudited but reflects all normal adjustments that are necessary to provide a fair statement of results for the interim periods presented.
The Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheet for October 31, 2018 was derived from audited financial statements.
All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
Effective at the beginning of its first quarter of fiscal year 2019, HP implemented an organizational change to align its business unit financial reporting more closely with its current business structure.
In connection with the Separation, HP entered into a separation and distribution agreement, a tax matters agreement, an employee matters agreement and various other agreements with Hewlett Packard Enterprise that provide a framework for the relationships between the parties.
The adoption of this guidance has no impact on net earnings.
It also requires modified retrospective transition with a cumulative catch-up adjustment to opening retained earnings in the period of adoption.
The implementation of this guidance resulted in $353 million of net reduction to its prepaid tax asset adjusted through accumulated deficit.
The implementation of this guidance did not have a material impact on its Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
HP has recognized the net impact of adoption as an increase to accumulated deficit by $212 million, net of tax.
Certain distributor programs and incentive offerings which were recorded at the date the sales incentives were offered, will now be recorded at the time of revenue recognition based on estimates.


item2.txt
•In Personal Systems, our strategic focus is on profitable growth through hyper market segmentation with respect to enhanced innovation in multi-operating systems, multi-architecture, geography, customer segments and other key attributes.
Additionally, we are investing in premium form factors such as convertible notebooks to meet customer preference for mobile, thinner and lighter devices.
•In Printing, our strategic growth focus is on shift to contractual solutions and Graphics, as well as expanding our footprint in the 3D printing marketplace.
The shift to contractual solutions includes an increased focus on MPS and Instant Ink, supporting our strategy of placing higher value printer units (including our A3 products and solutions) which offer strong annuity of toner and ink.
In the Graphics space, we are focused on innovations such as our Indigo and Latex product offerings, which support accelerated growth in our Graphic solutions.
We continue to execute on our key initiatives of focusing on high-value products targeted at high usage categories and introducing new revenue delivery models.
A third set of challenges relates to business model changes and our go-to-market execution in an evolving distribution and reseller landscape, with increasing omnichannel presence.
We are also seeing increases in commodity costs impacting our bill of materials.


item3.txt



item4.txt
The foregoing description does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the amendment to the credit facility, which is filed as Exhibit 10(k)(k) hereto.


part2.txt
Information with respect to this item may be found in Note 12, “Litigation and Contingencies” to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.
We have a large portfolio of products and must allocate our financial, personnel and other resources across all of our products while competing with companies that have smaller portfolios or specialize in one or more of our product lines.
As a result, we may invest less in certain areas of our business than our competitors, and our competitors may have greater financial, technical and marketing resources available to their products and services compared to the resources allocated to our competing products and services.


