fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
On November 1, 2015, Hewlett-Packard Company completed the separation of Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company (“Hewlett Packard Enterprise”), Hewlett-Packard Company’s former enterprise technology infrastructure, software, services and financing businesses (the “Separation”).
The accompanying Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements of HP and its wholly-owned subsidiaries are prepared in conformity with United States (“U.S.”) generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”).
The interim financial information is unaudited but reflects all normal adjustments that are necessary to provide a fair statement of results for the interim periods presented.
The Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheet for October 31, 2017 was derived from audited financial statements.
All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
HP implemented an organizational change to align its segment and business unit financial reporting more closely with its current business structure.
HP reflected this change to its segment and business unit information in prior reporting periods on an as-if basis.
It also requires modified retrospective transition with a cumulative catch-up adjustment to opening retained earnings in the period of adoption.
In June 2016, the FASB issued guidance, which requires credit losses on financial assets measured at amortized cost basis to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected, not based on incurred losses.
Further, credit losses on available-for-sale debt securities should be recorded through an allowance for credit losses limited to the amount by which fair value is below amortized cost.
Consistent with current guidance, the recognition, measurement, and presentation of expenses and cash flows arising from a lease by a lessee primarily will depend on its classification.
Under the new guidance, a lessee will be required to recognize assets and liabilities for all leases with lease terms of more than twelve months.
The amendments should be applied by means of a cumulative-effect adjustment to the balance sheet as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption, with other amendments related specifically to equity securities without readily determinable fair values applied prospectively.
The amendments may be applied retrospectively to each prior period presented (“full retrospective method”) or retrospectively with the cumulative effect recognized as of the date of initial application (“modified retrospective method”).
•Commercial PCs are optimized for use by customers, including enterprise and SMBs, with a focus on robust designs, security, serviceability, connectivity, reliability and manageability in networked environments.


item2.txt
•In Personal Systems, our strategic focus is on profitable growth through hyper market segmentation with respect to enhanced innovation in multi-operating systems, multi-architecture, geography, customer segments and other key attributes.
The shift to contractual solutions includes an increased focus on Managed Print Services and Instant Ink, which presents strong after-market supplies opportunities.
In the Graphics space, we are focused on innovations such as our Indigo and Latex product offerings.
One set of challenges relates to dynamic market trends, such as flat PC device and home printing markets.
A third set of challenges relates to business model changes and our go-to-market execution.
•In Printing, we are seeing signs of stabilization of demand in consumer and commercial markets, but are still experiencing an overall competitive pricing environment.
We are also seeing increases in commodity costs, such as oil prices, impacting our bill of materials.
For the three months ended January 31, 2018, we recorded a provisional tax benefit of $1.1 billion.
In addition, for the three months ended April 30, 2018, we recorded provisional tax expense of $379 million related to remeasurement of our U.S. deferred tax assets that are expected to be realized at a lower rate, which are considered provisional estimates under the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) Staff Accounting Bulletin (“SAB”) No.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Controls and Procedures.


part2.txt
Legal Proceedings.


