fls.txt



item1.txt
The Company ends its quarters on the Sunday closest to the end of the applicable calendar quarter, except in a 53-week fiscal year, in which case the additional week falls into the fourth quarter of that fiscal year.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP") and include the accounts of Cypress Semiconductor Corporation and its subsidiaries.
In the opinion of management, the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements contain all adjustments of a normal, recurring nature, which are necessary to state fairly the financial information included therein.
These financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included in Cypress' Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017.
The Company's significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
This standard update intends to increase the transparency and improve comparability by requiring entities to recognize assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for all leases, with certain exceptions.
The new standard states that a lessee will recognize a lease liability for the obligation to make lease payments and a right-of-use asset for the right to use the underlying asset for the lease term.
On January 1, 2018, we adopted Topic 606 using the modified retrospective method applied to all contracts that are not completed contracts at the date of initial application (i.e., January 1, 2018).
Results for reporting periods after January 1, 2018 are presented under Topic 606, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with our historic accounting under Topic 605.
We reclassified the sales return reserve to current liabilities presented as "Price adjustment and other revenue reserves" from the allowance for accounts receivable due to the adoption of Topic 606.
Revenues are recognized when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to our customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services.
We then select an appropriate method for measuring progress toward complete satisfaction of the performance obligation, usually costs incurred to date relative to the total expected costs to the satisfaction of that performance obligation.
We do not disclose the value of unsatisfied performance obligations for (i) contracts with an original expected length of one year or less and (ii) contracts for which we recognize revenue at the amount to which we have the right to invoice for services performed.
In November 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-18 Restricted Cash, which requires amounts generally described as restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents to be included with cash and cash equivalents when reconciling the total beginning and ending amounts for the periods shown on the statement of cash flows.
During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, the Company identified and recorded certain immaterial errors that originated in fiscal years ended January 1, 2017 and January 3, 2016.
The fiscal 2017 results for the three and six months ended July 2, 2017 have been revised to reflect the quarterly impact of the adjustments described above.
During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, the Company determined that its investment in Enovix, which is accounted for as an equity method investment, had suffered an other-than temporary impairment primarily because Enovix had not achieved certain key planned product development milestones.
The following table presents summarized aggregate financial information derived from the respective consolidated financial statements of Deca for the three and six month ended July 1, 2018, and of Deca and Enovix for the three and six months ended July 2, 2017.
The following table represents the assets and liabilities held by Deca as of July 1, 2018, and by Deca and Enovix as of December 31, 2017.


item2.txt
Our total revenues increased by $30.3 million, or 5.1%, to $624.1 million for the three-month period ended July 1, 2018 compared to the same period in the prior year.
The increase was primarily driven by strength in wired and wireless connectivity, microcontrollers, and memory products.
Our total revenues increased by $80.7 million, or 7.2%, to $1,206.3 million for the six-month period ended July 1, 2018 compared to the same period in the prior year.
Revenues recorded by MCD increased by $8.0 million, or 2.2%, in the three months ended July 1, 2018 compared to the same prior year period.
Revenues recorded by MCD increased by $26.8 million, or 4.0%, in the six months ended July 1, 2018 compared to the same prior year period.
The overall ASP of our products for MCD for the six months ended July 1, 2018 was $1.02 which decreased by $0.07, compared with the same prior year period primarily due to changes in product mix.


item3.txt
Our investment portfolio consists of a variety of financial instruments that expose us to interest rate risk, including, but not limited to, money market funds, certificates of deposit, and corporate securities.
Our debt obligations consist of a variety of financial instruments that expose us to interest rate risk, including, but not limited to our revolving credit facility, term loans and exchangeable notes.


item4.txt
In designing and evaluating our disclosure controls and procedures, management recognized that disclosure controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the disclosure controls and procedures are met.


part2.txt
Similarly, general trade tensions between the U.S. and China have been escalating in 2018, with one round of U.S. tariffs on Chinese goods taking effect in July 2018 followed by a round of retaliatory Chinese tariffs on U.S. goods.
Although we do not anticipate any material impact on our supply chain costs from the July 2018 round of U.S. tariffs (and to date the Chinese tariffs have generally focused on other industries), further rounds of tariffs have been threatened by U.S. and Chinese leaders.


