fls.txt
This Quarterly Report includes, among others, forward-looking statements regarding: our expectations regarding dividends, debt repayments, and stock repurchases; our expectations regarding restructuring plan costs and effects; our expectations regarding active litigation matters; the sufficiency of our cash, cash equivalents, and borrowing arrangements to meet our requirements for the next 12 months; possible recognition of certain unrecognized tax benefits within the next 12 months; and the potential impact of our indemnification obligations.


item1.txt
The Company ends its quarters on the Sunday closest to the end of the applicable calendar quarter, except in a 53-week fiscal year, in which case the additional week falls into the fourth quarter of that fiscal year.
These financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included in Cypress' Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2018.
Operating leases are included in operating lease right-of-use ("ROU") assets, other current liabilities, and operating lease liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets.
ROU assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
Finance leases are included in property and equipment, current portion of long-term debt, revolving credit facility and long-term portion of debt in our consolidated balance sheets.
The Company has elected the practical expedient within ASC Topic 842 to not separate lease and non-lease components within lease transactions for all classes of assets.
Additionally, the Company has elected the short-term lease exception for all classes of assets, does not apply the recognition requirements for leases of 12 months or less, and recognizes lease payments for short-term leases as expense either straight-line over the lease term or as incurred depending on whether the lease payments are fixed or variable.
The terms and conditions of the subleases are commensurate with the terms and conditions within the original operating leases.
The term of the subleases range from one to eight years, payments are fixed within the contracts, and there are no residual value guarantees or other restrictions or covenants in the leases.
When discount rates implicit in leases cannot be readily determined, the Company uses the applicable incremental borrowing rate at lease commencement to perform lease classification tests on lease components and to measure lease liabilities and ROU assets.
Other significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 30, 2018.
The Company adopted ASC Topic 842, as of December 31, 2018 and applied the alternative modified retrospective transition method requiring application of the new guidance to all leases existing at, or entered into on or after, the date of adoption, i.e. December 31, 2018.
As a result of adoption of this standard, and election of the transition practical expedients, the Company recognized ROU assets and lease liabilities for those leases classified as operating leases under ASC Topic 840 that continued to be classified as operating leases under ASC Topic 842 at the date of initial application.
In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company allocated $65.7 million of goodwill previously recorded in the MPD segment to the NAND business being divested.
Based on an analysis carried out in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $76.6 million which related to the goodwill and intangible assets allocated to the NAND business and classified as held-for-sale.
As of March 31, 2019 and December 30, 2018 inventories related to the NAND business in the amount of $10.8 million and $13.5 million, respectively, were classified as held-for-sale assets as SkyHigh has agreed to purchase such inventories.
SkyHigh will pay cash consideration for these inventories to the Company of a fixed amount and a contingent amount to be determined based on the profit on sales of such inventories generated by SkyHigh, if any.
During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company determined that its investment in Deca was other-than temporarily impaired and recognized a charge of $41.5 million in order to write down the carrying amount of the investment in Deca to the estimated fair value as of the end of fiscal 2018.
The Company did not have any material assets or liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis using Level 3 inputs as of March 31, 2019 and December 30, 2018.


item2.txt
Microcontroller and Connectivity Division  MCD focuses on connectivity and computing solutions for the Internet of Things and automotive solutions that enhance the in-cabin user experience.
The portfolio includes Wi-Fi® and Bluetooth® and Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE), and Wi-Fi plus Bluetooth combo solutions; Traveo™ automotive MCUs, PSoC® programmable MCUs and general-purpose MCUs; CapSense® capacitive-sensing controllers and automotive TrueTouch® touchscreen solutions; a broad line of USB controllers, including solutions for the USB-C and USB Power Delivery standards; and analog PMIC Power Management ICs.
Refer to Part I Item 1. Business in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 30, 2018 for a discussion of our strategies.
As we continue to implement our strategies, there are many internal and external factors that could impact our ability to meet any or all of our objectives.
Some of these factors are discussed in Part I Item 1A in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 30, 2018 as well as in Part II Item 1A in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.


item3.txt
Our investment portfolio consists of a variety of financial instruments that expose us to interest rate risk, including, but not limited to, money market funds, and certificates of deposit.


item4.txt
In designing and evaluating our disclosure controls and procedures, management recognized that disclosure controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the disclosure controls and procedures are met.


part2.txt
Our joint venture for NAND flash memory products might not be successful.
There can be no guarantee that such businesses will perform as initially expected, launch new products and solutions as initially expected, or gain or maintain market acceptance.


