fls.txt



item1.txt
The Company ends its quarters on the Sunday closest to the end of the applicable calendar quarter, except in a 53-week fiscal year, in which case the additional week falls into the fourth quarter of that fiscal year.
In the opinion of management, the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements contain all adjustments of a normal, recurring nature, which are necessary to state fairly the financial information included therein.
The Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations for the three months ended April 1, 2018 is not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the full fiscal year.
The Company's significant accounting policies are described under Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017. increase the transparency and improve comparability by requiring entities to recognize assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for all leases, with certain exceptions.
The new standard states that a lessee will recognize a lease liability for the obligation to make lease payments and a right-of-use asset for the right to use the underlying asset for the lease term.
On January 1, 2018, we adopted Topic 606 using the modified retrospective method applied to all contracts that are not completed contracts at the date of initial application (i.e., January 1, 2018).
Results for reporting periods after January 1, 2018 are presented under Topic 606, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with our historic accounting under Topic 605.
We then select an appropriate method for measuring progress toward complete satisfaction of the performance obligation, usually costs incurred to date relative to the total expected costs to the satisfaction of that performance obligation.
In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-16, “Intra- Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory.” For public entities, ASU 2016-16 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, and interim periods within those fiscal years.
The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
In November 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-18 Restricted Cash, which requires amounts generally described as restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents be included with cash and cash equivalents when reconciling the total beginning and ending amounts for the periods shown on the statement of cash flows.
During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, we identified and recorded certain immaterial errors that originated in fiscal years ended January 1, 2017 and January 3, 2016.
During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, the Company determined that its investment in Enovix, which is accounted for as an equity method investment, had suffered an other-than temporary impairment primarily because Enovix had not achieved certain key planned product development milestones.
The Company did not have any material assets or liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis using Level 3 inputs as of April 1, 2018 and December 31, 2017.
There were no transfers between Level 1, Level 2 and Level 3 fair value hierarchies during the three months ended April 1, 2018 and April 2, 2017 related to these securities.
There have been no changes to the valuation techniques used to measure the fair value of the Company's assets and liabilities.
For a description of the valuation techniques, refer to Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Certain of the Company’s assets, including intangible assets, goodwill and cost-method investments, are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis if impairment is indicated.
The carrying value of the Company's revolving credit facility approximates its fair value since it bears an interest rate that is comparable to rates on similar credit facilities and is determined using Level 2 inputs.
The Company's 2% 2020 Spansion Exchangeable Notes assumed as part of the Company's merger with Spansion Inc. (Spansion"), which was completed on March 12, 2015 (the "Merger"), are traded in the secondary market for debt instruments and are categorized as a Level 2 liability.


item2.txt
Memory Products Division  MPD focuses on specialized, high-performance parallel and serial NOR flash memories, NAND flash memories, static random access memory (SRAM), F-RAM™ ferroelectric memory devices, non-volatile SRAM (nvSRAM), other specialty memories and timing solutions.
Refer to Part I Item 1. Business in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 for a discussion of our strategies.
Some of these factors are discussed under Part I Item 1A in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 as well as in Part II Item 1A in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Our total revenues increased by $50.4 million, or 9.5%, to $582.2 million for the three-month period ended April 1, 2018 compared to the same period in the prior year.
Revenues recorded by MPD increased by $31.6 million, or 14.7%, in the three months ended April 1, 2018 compared to the same prior year period.


item3.txt
Our investment portfolio consists of a variety of financial instruments that expose us to interest rate risk, including, but not limited to, money market funds, certificates of deposit and corporate securities.
Our debt obligations consist of a variety of financial instruments that expose us to interest rate risk, including, but not limited to our revolving credit facility, Term Loans and Exchangeable Notes.


item4.txt
In designing and evaluating our disclosure controls and procedures, management recognized that disclosure controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the disclosure controls and procedures are met.


part2.txt
The information required by this item is included in Note 9 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements under Part I Item 1, of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and is incorporated herein by reference.


