fls.txt



item1.txt
The Company ends its quarters on the Sunday closest to the end of the applicable calendar quarter, except in a 53-week fiscal year, in which case the additional week falls into the fourth quarter of that fiscal year.
On September 29, 2019, the Company acquired the minority shareholders' noncontrolling interest in AgigA Tech, Inc. ("AgigA") for total cash consideration of $3.9 million, making AgigA a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company.
The difference between the carrying value of the noncontrolling interest at the date of the acquisition and the total consideration was recorded as a decrease in "Additional paid-in capital" in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
On June 3, 2019, the Company entered into a definitive Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "Merger Agreement") with Infineon Technologies AG, a stock corporation (Aktiengesellschaft) organized under the laws of the Federal Republic of Germany ("Infineon") and IFX Merger Sub Inc., a Delaware corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of Infineon ("Merger Sub").
Subject to approval by Cypress's stockholders and the relevant regulatory bodies as well as other customary closing conditions, the Merger Agreement provides for Merger Sub to merge with and into the Company, with the Company continuing as the surviving corporation in the Merger and as a wholly owned subsidiary of Infineon.
Operating leases are included in operating lease right-of-use ("ROU") assets, other current liabilities, and operating lease liabilities in the Company's consolidated balance sheets.
ROU assets represent the Company's right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent the Company's obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
Finance leases are included in property and equipment, current portion of long-term debt, revolving credit facility and long-term portion of debt in the Company's consolidated balance sheets.
Additionally, the Company has elected the short-term lease exception for all classes of assets, does not apply the recognition requirements for leases of 12 months or less, and recognizes lease payments for short-term leases as expense either straight-line over the lease term or as incurred depending on whether the lease payments are fixed or variable.
The terms of the subleases range from one to eight years, payments are fixed within the contracts, and there are no residual value guarantees or other restrictions or covenants in the leases.
When discount rates implicit in leases cannot be readily determined, the Company uses the applicable incremental borrowing rate at lease commencement to perform lease classification tests on lease components and to measure lease liabilities and ROU assets.
The incremental borrowing rate used by the Company was based on baseline rates and adjusted by the credit spreads commensurate with the Company’s secured borrowing rate, over a similar term.
Other significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 30, 2018.
The Company adopted ASC Topic 842, as of December 31, 2018 and applied the alternative modified retrospective transition method requiring application of the new guidance to all leases existing at, or entered into on or after, the date of adoption, i.e. December 31, 2018.
As a result of adoption of this standard, and election of the transition practical expedients, the Company recognized ROU assets and lease liabilities for those leases classified as operating leases under ASC Topic 840 that continued to be classified as operating leases under ASC Topic 842 at the date of initial application.
On June 3, 2019, Infineon, Merger Sub and the Company entered into the Merger Agreement, which provides for Merger Sub, upon the closing of the transaction, to merge with and into the Company (the "Merger"), with the Company continuing as the surviving corporation in the Merger and as a wholly owned subsidiary of Infineon.
Infineon will be required to pay to the Company a termination fee equal to $425 million under certain specified circumstances upon termination of the Merger Agreement.
The Company incurred approximately $3.0 million and $11.4 million in bankers fees, legal fees, employee-related costs and travel expenses in connection with the proposed Merger during the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019, respectively.
As of September 29, 2019, the Company has not accrued for certain bankers fees, employee retention cash bonuses and expense relating to the acceleration of stock-based compensation awards as these expenditures are contingent on the completion of the Merger.
If the proposed Merger does not close, under circumstances in which the Company receives a reverse break-up fee, bankers fees of approximately $22.2 million are contingently payable by Cypress.


item2.txt
Refer to Note 2 Merger Agreement of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this Quarterly Report for a description of our pending acquisition by Infineon Technologies AG ("Infineon").
The portfolio includes Wi-Fi® and Bluetooth® and Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE), and Wi-Fi plus Bluetooth combo solutions; Traveo™ automotive MCUs, PSoC® programmable MCUs and general-purpose MCUs; CapSense® capacitive-sensing controllers and automotive TrueTouch® touchscreen solutions; a broad line of USB controllers, including solutions for the USB-C and USB Power Delivery standards; and analog PMIC Power Management ICs.
Refer to Part I, Item 1 (Business) in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 30, 2018 for a discussion of our strategies.
Our total revenue decreased by $98.5 million, or 14.6%, to $574.5 million in the three months ended September 29, 2019 compared to the same period in the prior year.
Revenue from the NAND flash business which was divested on April 1, 2019 was $43.3 million in the three months ended September 30, 2018.


item3.txt
Our investment portfolio consists of a variety of financial instruments that expose us to interest rate risk, including, but not limited to, money market funds, and certificates of deposit.


item4.txt



part2.txt
The information required by this item is included in Note 13 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Part I Item 1, of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and is incorporated herein by reference.
•During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, we determined that our investment in Enovix Corporation, which is accounted for as an equity method investment, was other-than temporarily impaired as Enovix did not achieve key planned product development milestones.
•During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, we determined that our investment in Deca Technologies Inc. ("Deca") was other-than temporarily impaired due to significant delays in Deca's commercialization and achievement of scalable production of certain key products, and consequently we recognized an impairment charge of $41.5 million to write down the carrying value of our investment in Deca to $65.1 million (the estimated fair value of our investment as of the end of fiscal 2018).


