item1.txt
The accounting polices used in preparing the condensed consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-Q are the same as those used in preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended January 31, 2019, except for the change resulting from the adoption of Accounting Standard Codification Topic 842 (“ASC 842”), Leases.
See Note 11 for further details related to the new lease accounting policy as a result of this adoption.
In February 2019, the Company adopted the guidance issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) related to leases.
This ASU is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019 including interim periods within those fiscal years (Q1 fiscal 2021 for AstroNova), with early adoption permitted.
The provisions of ASU 2018-13 relating to changes in unrealized gains and losses, the range and weighted average of significant unobservable inputs used to develop Level 3 fair value measurements, and the narrative description of measurement uncertainty should be applied prospectively for only the most recent interim or annual period presented in the initial fiscal year of adoption.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact this new guidance will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
With respect to the acquired intangibles included in the table above, amortization expense of $1.1 million and $1.0 million has been included in the condensed consolidated statements of income for the three months ended November 2, 2019 and October 27, 2018, respectively.
Amortization expense of $3.2 million and $3.1 million related to the above acquired intangibles has been included in the condensed consolidated statement of income for the nine months ended November 2, 2019 and October 27, 2018, respectively.
The outstanding balance bears interest at a weighted average annual rate of 5.26% and $93,000 and $39,000 of interest has been incurred on this obligation and included in other expense in the accompanying condensed consolidated income statement for the nine month periods ended November 2, 2019 and October 27, 2018, respectively.
Following the completion of the third quarter of fiscal 2020, the Company entered into a Fourth Amendment to the Credit Agreement to, among other things, temporarily increase the revolving line of credit from $10.0 million to $17.5 million and modify certain of the financial covenants with which the Company must comply thereunder.
Following the completion of the third quarter of fiscal 2020, the Company entered into a Fourth Amendment to its Credit Agreement with Bank of America governing the Company’s long-term debt.
Refer to Note 17 – Subsequent Events for additional information on the Fourth Amendment and the resulting changes to the terms of the Credit Agreement.
The Company has entered into a cross-currency interest rate swap to manage the interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange risk associated with the floating-rate foreign currency-denominated term loan borrowing by our Danish Subsidiary and an interest rate swap to manage the interest rate risk associated with the variable rate term loan borrowing by the Company.
The cross-currency interest rate swap agreement utilized by the Company effectively modifies the Company’s exposure to interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange rate risk by converting the Company’s floating-rate debt denominated in U.S. Dollars on our Danish subsidiary’s books to a fixed-rate debt denominated in Danish Kroner for the term of the loan, thus reducing the impact of interest-rate and foreign currency exchange rate changes on future interest expense and principal repayments.
The interest rate swap agreement utilized by the Company on its term loan effectively modifies the Company’s exposure to interest rate risk by converting the Company’s floating-rate debt to fixed-rate debt for the next five years, thus reducing the impact of interest-rate changes on future interest expense.
At November 2, 2019, the Company expects to reclassify approximately $0.2 million of net gains on the swap contracts from accumulated other comprehensive loss to earnings during the next 12 months due to changes in foreign exchange rates and the payment of variable interest associated with the floating-rate debt.
The guaranteed minimum royalty payment obligation was recorded at the present value of the minimum annual royalty payments using a present value factor of 2.8%, which is based on the estimated after-tax cost of debt for similar companies.


item2.txt
Other expense in the third quarter of fiscal 2020 was $0.2 million compared to $0.5 million in the third quarter of the prior year.
Current quarter other expense primarily includes interest expense on the Company’s debt and revolving line of credit of $0.2 million.
The Company reported net income of $0.5 million or $0.06 per diluted share for the third quarter of the current year.
Revenue for the first nine months of the current year was $103.0 million, representing a 3.5% increase compared to the previous year’s first nine months of revenue of $99.5 million.
Revenue through domestic channels for the first nine months of the current year was $64.5 million, an increase of 6.1% from prior year domestic revenue of $60.8 million.
International revenue for the first nine months of the current year was $38.5 million, a slight decrease from the previous year international revenue of $38.7 million.
The current year’s first nine months of international revenue reflected an unfavorable foreign exchange rate impact of $1.2 million.
Supplies revenue in the first nine months of the current year was $55.5 million, representing a 5.3% increase over the prior year’s first nine months revenue of $52.7 million.
The current year increase in supplies revenue is due primarily to the increase in inkjet printer supplies and label sales, tempered by lower thermal film and electrophotographic supplies revenue in the Product Identification segment.


item4.txt



part2.txt
The description of the Fourth Amendment is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Fourth Amendment, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
10.1   Fourth Amendment to Credit Agreement, dated as of December 9, 2019, by and among AstroNova, Inc. ANI ApS, Trojan Label ApS and Bank of America, N.A.
31.2   Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002  
32.1   Certification of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002  


