fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, and reflect all adjustments consisting of normal recurring adjustments which, in the opinion of management, are necessary for a fair presentation of the results of the interim periods included herein.
On February 1, 2018 we adopted Accounting Standards Update 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Accounting Standards Codification “ASC” Topic 606),” which superseded nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under U.S. GAAP.
The core principle of ASC Topic 606 is to recognize revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services.
ASC Topic 606 defines a five step process to recognize revenue and requires more judgment and estimates within the revenue recognition process than required under previous U.S. GAAP, including identifying performance obligations in the contract, determining and estimating the amount of any variable consideration to include in the transaction price and allocating the transaction price to each separate performance obligation.
We derive revenue from the sale of (i) hardware including, digital color label printers and specialty OEM printing systems, portable data acquisition systems and airborne printers used in the flight deck and in the cabin of military, commercial and business aircraft, (ii) related supplies required in the operation of the hardware, (iii) repairs and maintenance of equipment and (iv) service agreements.
Hardware and software elements are typically delivered at the same time and are accounted for as a single performance obligation for which revenue is recognized at the point in time when ownership is transferred to the customer.
Shipping and handling activities that occur after control over a product has transferred to a customer are accounted for as fulfillment activities rather than performance obligations, as allowed under a practical expedient provided by ASC Topic 606.
These services are short in duration, typically less than one month, and total less than 9.0% of revenue for the six months ended July 28, 2018.
Service agreements are purchased separately from the equipment and provide for the right to obtain service and maintenance on the equipment for a period of typically one to two years.
In those instances, in which extended warranty services are separately quoted to the customer, an additional performance obligation is created, and the associated revenue is deferred and recognized as service revenue ratably over the term of the extended warranty period.
The portion of service contracts and extended warranty services agreements that are uncompleted at the end of any reporting period are included in deferred revenue.
The slight decrease in the deferred revenue at July 28, 2018 is primarily due to approximately $403,000 of revenue recognized during the period that was included in the deferred revenue balance at January 31, 2018, offset by cash payments received in advance of satisfying performance obligations.
These costs are deferred and amortized based on the forecasted number of units sold over the estimated benefit term, which is currently estimated to be approximately 10 years.
The balance of the deferred incremental direct contract costs net of accumulated amortization at July 28, 2018 is $967,000 and is reported in other assets in the condensed consolidated balance sheet.
The Honeywell Agreement also provided for guaranteed minimum royalty payments of $15.0 million, to be paid to Honeywell over the next ten years, based on gross revenues from the sales of the printers, paper and repair services of the licensed products.
The royalty rates vary based on the year in which they are paid or earned and product sold or service provided, and range from single-digit to mid double-digit percentages of gross revenue.
The minimum royalty payment obligation of $15.0 million was recorded at the present value of the annual minimum royalty payments using a present value factor of 2.8%, which is based on the estimated after tax cost of debt for similar companies.
At July 28, 2018, the current portion of the minimum royalty obligation to be paid over the next twelve months is $1.6 million and is reported as a current liability; and the remainder of $10.9 million is reported as a long-term liability on the Company’s condensed consolidated balance sheet.


item2.txt
Revenue for the second quarter of the current year was $33.8 million, representing a 23.0% increase compared to the previous year second quarter revenue of $27.5 million.
International revenue for the second quarter of the current year was $13.8 million, a 34.0% increase over the previous year’s second quarter and represents 41% of AstroNova’s second quarter’s revenue.
Current year second quarter international revenue includes a favorable foreign exchange rate impact of $0.3 million.
Supplies revenue in the current quarter was $17.9 million, a 9.8% increase over the prior year’s second quarter supplies revenue of $16.3 million.
Current year second quarter gross profit was $13.4 million, a 30.6% increase compared to prior year second quarter gross profit of $10.3 million.
The Company’s current quarter gross profit margin of 39.6% reflects a 2.3 percentage point increase from the prior year second quarter gross profit margin of 37.3%.
Other expense in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 was $0.5 million compared to $16 thousand of other income in the prior year second quarter.
The Company reported net income of $1.2 million or $0.17 per diluted share for the second quarter of the current year.
On a comparable basis, net income for the prior year second quarter was $0.7 million or $0.11 per diluted share.


item4.txt



part2.txt
3A   Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Company and all amendments thereto (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3A to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended April 30, 2016).
3B   By-laws of the Company as amended to date (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3B to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2008 (File no.


