item1.txt
The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries.
On February 1, 2018 we adopted Accounting Standards Update 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Accounting Standards Codification “ASC” Topic 606),” which superseded nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under U.S. GAAP.
ASC Topic 606 defines a five step process to recognize revenue and requires more judgment and estimates within the revenue recognition process than required under previous U.S. GAAP, including identifying performance obligations in the contract, determining and estimating the amount of any variable consideration to include in the transaction price and allocating the transaction price to each separate performance obligation.
Under ASC Topic 606, based on the nature of our contracts and consistent with prior practice, we recognize the large majority of our revenue upon shipment, which is when the performance obligation, has been satisfied.
We derive revenue from the sale of (i) hardware including, digital color label printers and specialty OEM printing systems, portable data acquisition systems and airborne printers used in the flight deck and in the cabin of military, commercial and business aircraft, (ii) related supplies required in the operation of the hardware, (iii) repairs and maintenance of equipment and (iv) service agreements.
These services are short in duration, typically less than one month, and total less than 9.0% of revenue for the period ended April 28, 2018.
Service agreements are purchased separately from the equipment and provide for the right to obtain service and maintenance on the equipment for a period of typically one to two years.
The portion of service agreement contracts that are uncompleted at the end of any reporting period are included in deferred revenue.
Our contract liabilities, which represent billings in excess of revenue recognized, are related to advanced billings for purchased service agreements and extended warranties and were $301,000 and $367,000 at April 28, 2018 and January, 31, 2018, respectively, and are recorded as deferred revenue in the condensed consolidated balance sheet.
The decrease in the deferred revenue balance during the three months ended April 28, 2018 is primarily due to approximately $175,000 of revenue recognized during the period that was included in the deferred revenue balance at January 31, 2018, offset by cash payments received in advance of satisfying performance obligations.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2019, amortization of these incremental direct costs was $9,000 and the balance of deferred incremental direct costs net of accumulated amortization at April 28, 2018 was $973,000 which is reported in other assets in the condensed consolidated balance sheet.
On September 28, 2017, AstroNova, Inc. entered into an Asset Purchase and License Agreement (the “Honeywell Agreement”) with Honeywell International, Inc. to acquire an exclusive perpetual world-wide license to manufacture Honeywell’s narrow-format flight deck printers for two aircraft families along with certain inventory used in the manufacturing of the licensed printers.
The Honeywell Agreement also provided for guaranteed minimum royalty payments of $15.0 million, to be paid to Honeywell over the next ten years, based on gross revenues from the sales of the printers, paper and repair services of the licensed products.
The royalty rates vary based on the year in which they are paid or earned and product sold or service provided, and range from single-digit to mid double-digit percentages of gross revenue.
The minimum royalty payment obligation of $15.0 million was recorded at the present value of the minimum annual royalty payments using a present value factor of 2.8%, which is based on the estimated after tax cost of debt for similar companies.
At April 28, 2018, the current portion of the royalty obligation to be paid over the next twelve months is $1.5 million and is reported as a current liability and the remainder of $11.4 million is reported as a long-term liability on the Company’s condensed consolidated balance sheet.
For the first quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company incurred $0.5 million in excess royalty expense, which is included in cost of goods sold in the Company’s condensed consolidated statement of income for the three months ended April 28, 2018.
A total of $0.9 million of excess royalty is payable at April 28, 2018 and reported as a current liability on the Company’s condensed consolidated balance sheet.
In connection with the Honeywell Agreement, the Company also entered into a Transition Services Agreement (“TSA”) with Honeywell related to the transfer of the manufacturing and repair of the licensed printers from their current locations to AstroNova’s plant in West Warwick, Rhode Island.
Subject to the completion of the terms of the TSA by Honeywell International, the Company may be required to make an additional payment of $0.4 million to acquire an additional repair facility revenue stream.


item2.txt
Revenue for the first quarter of the current year was $31.5 million, representing a 28.7% increase compared to the previous year first quarter revenue of $24.5 million.
Revenue through domestic channels for the current year first quarter was $19.2 million, an increase of 22.6% over the prior year’s first quarter.
International revenue for the first quarter of the current year was $12.3 million, a 39.7% increase over the previous year first quarter and represents 39% of AstroNova’s first quarter’s revenue.
Current year first quarter international revenue includes a favorable foreign exchange rate impact of $0.8 million.
Current year first quarter gross profit was $12.1 million, a 30.1% increase compared to prior year first quarter gross profit of $9.3 million.
The Company’s current quarter gross profit margin of 38.5% reflects a 0.5 percentage point increase from the prior year first quarter gross profit margin of 38.0%.
The higher gross profit and related profit margin for the current quarter compared to prior year is primarily attributable to increased sales and favorable product mix.
The Company reported net income of $0.8 million or $0.12 per diluted share for the first quarter of the current year, which included after-tax income of $0.8 million, or $0.12 per diluted share, as a result of a change in accounting estimates for product cost and operating expenses related to a transition services agreement entered into with Honeywell in connection with the Honeywell Agreement.


item4.txt



part2.txt
There have been no material updates to the risk factors previously disclosed in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2018.
(a) Employees of the Company delivered 2,383 shares of the Company’s common stock toward the satisfaction of taxes due with respect to vesting of restricted shares.


