The unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements of Juniper Networks, Inc. (the “Company” or “Juniper”) have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
GAAP”) for interim financial information.
Accordingly, they do not include all information and footnotes required by U.S. GAAP for complete financial statements.
The Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2018 has been derived from the audited Consolidated Financial Statements at that date.
The results of operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the year ending December 31, 2019, or any future period.
Except for the change in certain policies upon adoption of the accounting standards described below, there have been no material changes to the Company's significant accounting policies, compared to the accounting policies described in Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies, in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II of the Form 10-K.
The adoption of the standard had no impact on the Company's Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations and Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows or debt-covenant compliance under its current agreements.
See Note 15, Commitments and Contingencies, for additional disclosures required upon adopting the standard.
The Company evaluates classification of leases at commencement and, as necessary, at modification.
As of September 30, 2019, the Company did not have any finance leases.
Operating leases are included in operating lease ROU assets, other accrued liabilities, and operating lease liabilities on the Company's Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
ROU assets represent the Company's right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent its obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
Operating lease ROU assets and liabilities are recognized on the commencement date based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term.
The operating lease ROU asset also includes any lease payments made prior to lease commencement and excludes lease incentives.
Variable lease payments not dependent on an index or a rate, are expensed as incurred and are not included within the ROU asset and lease liability calculation.
Variable lease payments primarily include reimbursements of costs incurred by lessors for common area maintenance and utilities.
The Company's lease terms are the noncancelable period, including any rent-free periods provided by the lessor, and include options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that it will exercise that option.
At lease inception, and in subsequent periods as necessary, the Company estimates the lease term based on its assessment of extension and termination options that are reasonably certain to be exercised.
Lease costs are recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
The Company does not separate non-lease components from lease components for all underlying classes of assets.
In addition, the Company does not recognize ROU assets and lease liabilities for short-term leases, which have a lease term of twelve months or less and do not include an option to purchase the underlying asset that the Company is reasonably certain to exercise.
On April 1, 2019, the Company acquired 100% ownership of Mist Systems, Inc. (“Mist”) for $359.2 million.
The purchase consideration consisted of cash of $354.5 million and $4.7 million in share-based awards attributable to services prior to the acquisition.
The acquisition of Mist, a company that provides cloud-managed wireless networks powered by artificial intelligence, is expected to enhance Juniper's enterprise networking portfolio by combining Mist’s next-generation Wireless LAN platform with Juniper's wired LAN, SD-WAN, and security solutions to deliver integrated end-to-end user and IT experiences.
The goodwill recognized in connection with the acquisition is primarily attributable to anticipated synergies from future growth and will not be deductible for income tax purposes.
Acquisition-related costs were not material during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and were expensed in the period incurred within general and administrative expense in the Company's Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
The Company's Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements include the operating results of this business combination from the date of acquisition.
Pro forma results of operations for this acquisition have not been presented, as the financial impact to the Company's consolidated results of operations is not material.
The primary areas of the preliminary purchase price allocation that are subject to change relate to certain legal and income tax matters.
For available-for-sale debt securities that have unrealized losses, the Company assesses impairment by evaluating various factors, including whether (i) it has the intention to sell any of these investments and (ii) whether it is more likely than not that it will be required to sell any of these investments before recovery of the entire amortized cost basis.
As of September 30, 2019, the Company had 290 investments in unrealized loss positions.
The gross unrealized losses related to these investments were primarily due to changes in market interest rates.
The Company anticipates that it will recover the entire amortized cost basis of such available-for-sale debt securities and has determined that no other-than-temporary impairments associated with credit losses were required to be recognized during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and September 30, 2018.
During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and September 30, 2018, there were no material gross realized gains or losses from available-for-sale debt securities.
Balance relates to restricted investments measured at fair value related to the Company's Deferred Compensation Plan.
For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and September 30, 2018, there were no material unrealized gains or losses recognized for equity investments.
As of September 30, 2019, the carrying value of restricted cash and investments was $92.0 million, of which $66.5 million was included in prepaid expenses and other current assets and $25.5 million was included in other long-term assets on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
The Company's privately-held debt and redeemable preferred stock securities are classified as Level 3 assets due to the lack of observable inputs to determine fair value.
The Company estimates the fair value of its privately-held debt and redeemable preferred stock securities on a recurring basis using an analysis of the financial condition and near-term prospects of the investee, including recent valuations at the time of financing activities and the investee's capital structure.
During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, there were no significant activities related to privately-held debt and redeemable preferred stock securities.
Certain of the Company's assets, including intangible assets and goodwill, are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis, when they are deemed to be other-than temporarily impaired.
There were no impairment charges recognized during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019.
Equity investments without readily determinable fair value are measured at fair value, when they are deemed to be impaired or when there is an adjustment from observable price changes.
For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, there were no material impairment charges or adjustments resulting from observable price changes for equity investments without readily determinable fair value.
As of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the Company had no liabilities required to be measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis.
The carrying amounts of the Company's accounts receivable, accounts payable, and other accrued liabilities approximate fair value due to their short maturities.
As of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the estimated fair value of the Company's total outstanding debt in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets was $1,807.3 million and $2,158.7 million, respectively, based on observable market inputs (Level 2).
The carrying value of the promissory note issued to the Company in connection with the previously completed sale of Junos Pulse, along with the accumulated interest paid in kind, of $73.7 million and $69.0 million approximates its fair value as of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.
Notes receivable are generally classified as Level 3 asset due to the lack of observable inputs to determine fair value.
The carrying value of a contract manufacturer deposit of $36.9 million, reported within other long-term assets, in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets approximates its fair value as of September 30, 2019.
See Note 7, Other Financial Information, for further information on the contract manufacturer deposit.
The Company uses derivative instruments to manage a variety of risks, including risks related to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates on debt instruments.
We do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
The Company uses foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the Company's planned cost of revenues and operating expenses denominated in foreign currencies.
These derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges.
Execution of cash flow hedge derivatives typically occurs every month with maturities of eighteen months or less.
As of September 30, 2019, an estimated $8.8 million of unrealized net loss within accumulated other comprehensive loss is expected to be reclassified into earnings within the next twelve months.
The Company recognized an unrealized loss of $12.4 million and $11.1 million in accumulated other comprehensive income for the effective portion of its derivative instruments for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, respectively; and an unrealized loss of $6.1 million and $8.6 million for the comparable periods in fiscal 2018, respectively.
The Company reclassified a loss of $0.8 million and $1.5 million out of accumulated other comprehensive income to cost of revenues and operating expenses in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, and a loss of $3.1 million and a gain of $5.8 million for the comparable periods in fiscal 2018, respectively.
In September 2019, the Company entered into interest rate swaps with an aggregate notional amount of $300.0 million designated as fair value hedges of our fixed-rate 2041 Notes.
Most of the interest rate swaps will expire within ten years or less.
The Company recognizes the change in fair value of the derivative instrument, as well as the offsetting change in the fair value of the hedged item, in Other expense, net in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations in the period of change.
These derivatives are classified in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows in the same section as the underlying item.
See Note 5, Fair Value Measurements, for the fair values of the Company's derivative instruments in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The Company also uses foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate variability in gains and losses generated from the remeasurement of certain monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies.
These foreign exchange forward contracts typically have maturities of approximately one to four months.
The outstanding non-designated derivative instruments are carried at fair value.
Changes in the fair value of these derivatives recorded in other expense, net within the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations were not material during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and September 30, 2018.
The Company has a non-interest bearing deposit balance of $36.9 million, net of an unamortized discount balance of $1.9 million, to a contract manufacturer per the terms of the agreement.
The imputed interest will be amortized over the term of the deposit to interest income along with a corresponding charge to cost of revenues.
The deposit is due in the third quarter of 2020 and has been classified as other long-term assets on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
See Note 12, Segments, for disaggregated revenue by product and service, customer vertical, and geographic region.
Product revenue of $13.7 million and $54.3 million included in deferred revenue at January 1, 2019 was recognized during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, respectively.
Service revenue of $152.3 million and $609.1 million included in deferred revenue at January 1, 2019 was recognized during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, respectively.
Deferred commissions were $20.4 million as of September 30, 2019.
For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, amortization expense for the deferred commissions was $27.9 million and $94.0 million, respectively.
There were no impairment charges recognized during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019.
During the first quarter of 2019, the Company initiated a restructuring plan (the "2019 Restructuring Plan") designed to realign its workforce with the Company's sales strategy, improve productivity, and enhance cost efficiencies.
During the second quarter of 2019, the Company amended the 2019 Restructuring Plan and undertook certain further actions that resulted in additional severance, additional facility consolidation, and contract termination costs.
During the three months ended September 30, 2019, the Company recorded $0.3 million and $0.8 million for changes in previous estimates associated with severance and contract termination costs, respectively.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2019, the Company recorded $21.8 million of severance costs related to workforce reductions, $2.1 million of facility consolidations, and $11.7 million of contract termination costs, respectively, to restructuring charges in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
The Company expects to pay the remaining restructuring liabilities by the end of the second quarter of 2020.
In August 2019, the Company issued $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of 3.75% senior notes due 2029.
The net proceeds from the issuance of the 2029 Notes, together with cash on hand, were used for the repayment of $600.0 million aggregate principal amount of the Company's 3.30% senior notes due 2020 and 4.60% senior notes due 2021.
The repayments were made in August and September 2019.
The repayments resulted in a loss on extinguishment of debt of $15.3 million, which was recorded under other expense, net within the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
The Notes above are the Company’s senior unsecured and unsubordinated obligations, ranking equally in right of payment to all of the Company’s existing and future senior unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness, and senior in right of payment to any of the Company’s future indebtedness that is expressly subordinated to the Notes.
The Company may redeem the 2025 Notes and the 2029 Notes, either in whole or in part, at any time three months prior to the maturity date of the 2025 Notes, and three months prior to the maturity date of the 2029 Notes, respectively, at a redemption price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the aggregate principal amount of the 2025 Notes and the 2029 Notes to be redeemed or (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments discounted at the Treasury rate plus 37.5 basis points for the 2025 Notes, or the Treasury rate plus 35.0 basis points for the 2029 Notes, plus, in the case of each of the clauses (i) and (ii) above, accrued and unpaid interest, if any.
At any time on or after March 15, 2025, in the case of the 2025 Notes, and at any time on or after March 15, 2029, in the case of the 2029 Notes, the Company may redeem Notes of such series, in whole or in part, at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the 2025 Notes and the 2029 Notes to be redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any.
The Company may redeem the other Notes, either in whole or in part, at any time at a redemption price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed or (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments discounted to the redemption date, plus, in either case, accrued and unpaid interest, if any.
In the event of a change of control repurchase event, the holders of the Notes may require the Company to repurchase for cash all or part of the Notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any.
Interest on the Notes is payable in cash semiannually.
The effective interest rates for the Notes include the interest on the Notes, accretion of the discount, and amortization of issuance costs.
The indentures that govern the Notes also contain various covenants, including limitations on the Company's ability to incur liens or enter into sale-leaseback transactions over certain dollar thresholds.
As of September 30, 2019, the Company was in compliance with all covenants in the indentures governing the Notes.
In April 2019, the Company entered into a new credit agreement with certain institutional lenders that provides for a five-year $500.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility (the "Revolving Credit Facility"), with an option to increase the Revolving Credit Facility by up to an additional $200.0 million, subject to the lenders' approval.
Proceeds of loans made under the Revolving Credit Facility may be used by the Company for working capital and general corporate purposes.
The Revolving Credit Facility will terminate in April 2024, subject to two one-year maturity extension options, on the terms and conditions as set forth in the credit agreement.
Borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility will bear interest, at either (i) a floating rate per annum equal to the base rate plus a margin of between 0.00% and 0.375%, depending on the Company's public debt rating or (ii) a per annum rate equal to the reserve adjusted Eurocurrency rate, plus a margin of between 0.910% and 1.375%, depending on the Company's public debt rating.
The Eurocurrency rate is determined for U.S. dollars and Pounds Sterling as the rate at which deposits in such currency are offered in the London interbank market for the applicable interest period and for Euro as the rate specified for deposits in Euro with a maturity comparable to the applicable interest period.
The Revolving Credit Facility requires the Company to maintain a leverage ratio no greater than 3.0x (provided that if a material acquisition has been consummated, the Company is permitted to maintain a leverage ratio no greater than 3.5x for up to four quarters) and an interest coverage ratio no less than 3.0x during the term of the credit facility.
As of September 30, 2019, the Company was in compliance with all covenants in the Credit Agreement.
During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, the Company declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.19 per share of common stock on January 29, 2019, April 25, 2019 and July 25, 2019, respectively, which was paid on March 22, 2019, June 24, 2019 and September 25, 2019, respectively, to stockholders of record on March 1, 2019, June 3, 2019 and September 4, 2019, respectively.
Any future dividends, and the establishment of record and payment dates, are subject to approval by the Board of Directors (the “Board”) of Juniper or an authorized committee thereof.
See Note 16, Subsequent Events, for discussion of the Company's dividend declaration subsequent to September 30, 2019.
In January 2018, the Board approved a $2.0 billion share repurchase program ("2018 Stock Repurchase Program").
As part of the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program, in February 2018, the Company entered into an ASR to repurchase $750.0 million of its common stock.
The Company made an up-front payment of $750.0 million pursuant to the ASR to repurchase its common stock.
The aggregate number of shares ultimately repurchased of 29.3 million shares of common stock was determined based on a volume weighted average repurchase price, less an agreed upon discount, of $25.62 per share.
On April 29, 2019, the Company entered into an ASR, to repurchase an aggregate of approximately $300.0 million of the Company’s outstanding common stock.
During the three months ended June 30, 2019, the Company made an up-front payment of $300.0 million pursuant to the ASR and received and retired an initial 8.6 million shares of the Company’s common stock for an aggregate price of $240.0 million, based on the market price of $27.94 per share of the Company’s common stock on the date of the transaction.
During the three months ended September 30, 2019, the ASR was completed and an additional 3.0 million shares were received for a total repurchase of 11.6 million shares of the Company's common stock at a volume weighted average repurchase price, less an agreed upon discount, of $25.79 per share.
The shares received by the Company were retired, accounted for as a reduction to stockholder’s equity in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, and treated as a repurchase of common stock for purposes of calculating earnings per share.
During the three months ended September 30, 2019, the Company also repurchased 2.1 million shares of its common stock in the open market for an aggregate purchase price of $50.0 million at an average price of $23.63 per share, under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program.
As of September 30, 2019, there was approximately $900.0 million of authorized funds remaining under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program.
The 2018 Stock Repurchase Program does not have a specified termination date.
See Note 16, Subsequent Events, for discussion of the Company's stock repurchase activity, increased repurchase authorization and ASR subsequent to September 30, 2019.
Future share repurchases under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program will be subject to a review of the circumstances at that time and will be made from time to time in private transactions or open market purchases as permitted by securities laws and other legal requirements.
The Company's 2018 Stock Repurchase Program may be discontinued at any time.
In addition to repurchases under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program, the Company also withholds shares of common stock from certain employees in connection with the vesting of stock awards issued to such employees to satisfy applicable tax withholding requirements.
Such withheld shares are treated as common stock repurchases in our financial statements as they reduce the number of shares that would have been issued upon vesting.
Repurchases associated with tax withholdings were not material during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and September 30, 2018.
The Company has stock-based compensation plans pursuant to which it has granted stock options, restricted stock units (“RSUs”), and performance share awards (“PSAs”).
The Company also maintains its 2008 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the “ESPP”) for all eligible employees.
As of September 30, 2019, 16.2 million and 6.3 million shares were available for future issuance under the Company's 2015 Equity Incentive Plan (the "2015 Plan") and the ESPP, respectively.
In connection with past acquisitions, the Company also assumed or substituted stock options, RSUs, restricted stock unit awards ("RSAs"), and PSAs.
On April 1, 2019, the Company completed the acquisition of Mist.
In connection with the acquisition, the Company assumed stock options, RSUs and RSAs, including those that had been granted under the Mist Systems, Inc. 2014 Equity Incentive Plan (the "Mist Plan"), and converted the awards into Juniper Networks' stock options, RSUs and RSAs, respectively, based on an exchange ratio set forth in the acquisition agreement between Juniper Networks and Mist.
The Company assumed an aggregate of 1.9 million shares of stock options, RSUs and RSAs in connection with the acquisition of Mist.
No additional awards can be granted under the Mist Plan.
The purchase price for the Company’s common stock under the ESPP is 85% of the lower of the fair market value of the shares at (1) the beginning of the applicable offering period or (2) the end of each 6-month purchase period during such offering period.
The ESPP will continue in effect until February 25, 2028, unless terminated earlier under the provisions of the ESPP.
As of September 30, 2019, the total unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested share-based awards was $330.2 million to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.7 years.
The Company's chief executive officer, who is the chief operating decision maker, reviews financial information presented on a consolidated basis for purposes of allocating resources and evaluating financial performance, accompanied by disaggregated information about net revenues by product and service, customer vertical, and geographic region as presented below.
The Company's effective tax rate during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 reflects a benefit of discrete items, including the recognition of $8.3 million in previously unrecognized tax benefits, including interest, due to a lapse in statutes of limitations partially offset by the impact of an international realignment including the write-down of certain deferred tax assets and the inability to fully benefit certain discrete charges recorded in prior quarters.
The Company’s effective tax rate during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 included a $67.6 million in previously unrecognized tax benefits, including interest, due to a lapse in statutes of limitations and a $33.2 million benefit as a result of filing a change in accounting method for the tax recognition of deferred product revenue.
As of September 30, 2019, the total amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits was $174.9 million, of which $171.9 million, if recognized, would affect the effective tax rate.
The Company engages in continuous discussions and negotiations with tax authorities regarding tax matters in various jurisdictions.
Except for the items below, there have been no material changes to the Company's commitments compared to the commitments described in Note 16, Commitments and Contingencies, in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II of the Form 10-K.
In order to reduce manufacturing lead times and in the interest of having access to adequate component supply, the Company enters into agreements with contract manufacturers and certain suppliers to procure inventory based on the Company's requirements.
A significant portion of the Company's purchase commitments arising from these agreements consists of firm and non-cancelable commitments.
These purchase commitments totaled $1,370.5 million as of September 30, 2019.
The Company establishes a liability in connection with purchase commitments related to quantities in excess of its demand forecasts or obsolete materials charges for components purchased by the contract manufacturers based on the Company’s demand forecast or customer orders.
As of September 30, 2019, the Company had accrued $29.7 million based on its estimate of such charges.
The Company previously disclosed that it has been the subject of investigations by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") and the U.S. Department of Justice ("DOJ") into possible violations by the Company of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.
As a result of its internal investigation, the Company made significant improvements in its internal controls and carried out a number of disciplinary actions.
In the fourth quarter of 2017, the DOJ notified the Company that the DOJ has closed its investigation related to these matters without taking any action against the Company, and in August 2019, the Company, without admitting or denying any fault or wrongdoing, entered into a settlement with the SEC that resolved this government investigation.
As part of the settlement with the SEC, the Company made a payment of $11.8 million.
On October 24, 2019, the Company announced that the Board declared a cash dividend of $0.19 per share of common stock to be paid on December 23, 2019 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on December 2, 2019.
On October 24, 2019, the Company announced that the Board authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $1.0 billion of common stock under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program.
On October 28, 2019, the Company entered into an ASR with a financial institution to repurchase an aggregate of $200.0 million of the Company's outstanding common stock.
The Company made an up-front payment of $200.0 million pursuant to the ASR and received and retired an initial 6.4 million shares of the Company's common stock for an aggregate price of $160.0 million based on the market value of the Company's common stock on the date of the transaction.
The Company has an aggregate of $1.7 billion of authorized funds remaining under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program, as of the filing date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Future share repurchases under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program will be subject to a review of the circumstances at that time and will be made from time to time in private transactions or open market purchases as permitted by securities laws and other legal requirements.
The Company's 2018 Stock Repurchase Program does not have a specified termination date, but may be discontinued at any time.
The information set forth under the “Legal Proceedings” section in Note 15, Commitments and Contingencies, in Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this Report, is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 1A.
Investments in our securities involve significant risks.
For example, we, and many companies in our industry, experience adverse seasonal fluctuations in customer spending, particularly in the first quarter.
Such adjustments may be difficult or impossible to execute in the short or medium term.
We expect our gross margins and operating margins to vary over time.
For example, in fiscal year 2018, our margins decreased as compared to fiscal year 2017, primarily due to lower net revenues and product mix.
In fiscal year 2017, our margins decreased as compared to fiscal year 2016, primarily due to lower product net revenues and product mix, resulting from the year-over-year decline in routing revenues, our customers' architectural shifts, and higher costs of certain memory components.
In fiscal year 2016, our margins decreased compared to fiscal year 2015, primarily due to elevated pricing pressure and product mix.
Further, while we will continue to remain diligent in our long-term financial objective to increase revenue and operating margins and manage our operating expenses as a percentage of revenue, we expect that our margins will vary with our ability to achieve these goals.
A limited number of our customers comprise a material portion of our revenues and any changes in the way they purchase products and services from us could affect our business.
In addition, there is an ongoing trend toward consolidation in the industry in which our customers and partners operate.
Competition is intense in the markets that we serve.
The routing and switching markets have historically been dominated by Cisco Systems, Inc., or Cisco, with competition coming from other companies such as Nokia Corporation, Arista Networks, Inc., and Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd.
In the security market, we face intense competition from Cisco and Palo Alto Networks, Inc., as well as companies such as Check Point Software Technologies, Ltd., and Fortinet, Inc. Further, a number of other small public and private companies have products or have announced plans for new products to address the same challenges and markets that our products address.
A customer's decision to purchase certain of our products, particularly new products, involves a significant commitment of its resources and a lengthy evaluation and product qualification process.
As a result, the sales cycle may be lengthy.
Throughout the sales cycle, we may spend considerable time educating and providing information to prospective customers regarding the use and benefits of our products.
Even after making the decision to purchase, customers may deploy our products slowly and deliberately.
Timing of deployment can vary widely and depends on the skill set of the customer, the size of the network deployment, the complexity of the customer's network environment, and the degree of hardware and operating system configuration necessary to deploy the products.
Customers with large networks usually expand their networks in large increments on a periodic basis.
Due to the cost, complexity and custom nature of configurations required by our customers, we generally build our network equipment products as orders are received.
The volume of orders received late in any given fiscal quarter remains unpredictable.
The introduction of new software products and services is part of our intended strategy to expand our software business, and certain software revenues may be recognized periodically over the term of the relevant use period or subscription period.
As a result, certain software, subscription and support and maintenance revenue we report each fiscal quarter is the recognition of deferred revenue from contracts entered into during previous fiscal quarters.
Consequently, a decline in such new or renewed contracts in any one fiscal quarter will not be fully or immediately reflected in revenue in that fiscal quarter but will negatively affect our revenue in future fiscal quarters.
Additionally, we determine our operating expenses largely on the basis of our anticipated revenues and technology roadmap and a high percentage of our expenses are fixed in the short and medium term.
A substantial portion of our business and revenues depends on the growth of secure IP infrastructure and customers that depend on the continued growth of IP services to deploy our products in their networks and IP infrastructures.
In addition, a number of our existing customers are evaluating the build-out of their next generation networks.
During the decision-making period when our customers are determining the design of those networks and the selection of the software and equipment they will use in those networks, such customers may greatly reduce or suspend their spending on secure IP infrastructure.
For example, in recent years, our switching and routing results were adversely affected by spending delays from our largest Cloud customers, who we believe are in the process of implementing a networking architectural shift.
The duration of the delay is difficult to predict, in part because each Cloud customer will migrate their network architecture based on their own constraints.
For example, the move from traditional wide area network, or WAN, infrastructures towards software-defined WAN, or SD-WAN, has been receiving considerable attention.
In our view, it will take several years to see the full impact of SD-WAN, and we believe the successful products and solutions in this market will combine hardware and software elements.
In recent years, we have announced a number of new products and enhancements to our hardware and software products across routing, switching and security.
Although we have contracts with our contract manufacturers, these contracts do not require them to manufacture our products on a long-term basis in any specific quantity or at any specific price.
In addition, it is time-consuming and costly to qualify and implement additional contract manufacturer relationships.
We have experienced in the past and may experience in the future an increase in the expected time required to manufacture our products or ship products.
Also, the addition of manufacturing locations or contract manufacturers or the introduction of new products by us would increase the complexity of our supply chain management.
For example, the United States recently imposed a tariff on networking products imported from China; this includes certain products that we import into and sell within the United States.
Similarly, many of the products that we source from China are transported by air cargo from Hong Kong, which has experienced recent political demonstrations that have resulted in cancellations or delays in flights in and out of Hong Kong.
If these demonstrations and their impact on air shipments continue, we could experience delays in product deliveries or be required to change our shipping practices.
In addition, increased costs of production or delays in production caused by any relocation of contract manufacturing facilities or delays in product deliveries could impact the global competitiveness of our products.
We are dependent on sole source and limited source suppliers, including for key components, which makes us susceptible to shortages, quality issues or price fluctuations in our supply chain, and we may face increased challenges in supply chain management in the future.
that may be beyond our control or may seek to impose significant price increases.
Such a disruption could occur as a result of any number of events, including, but not limited to, increases in wages that drive up prices, the imposition of regulations, quotas or embargoes on components, labor stoppages, transportation failures affecting the supply chain and shipment of materials and finished goods, third-party interference in the integrity of the products sourced through the supply chain, the unavailability of raw materials, severe weather conditions, natural disasters, civil unrest, military conflicts, geopolitical developments, war or terrorism and disruptions in utility and other services.
The development of alternate sources for components is time-consuming, difficult, and costly.
In addition, the lead times associated with certain components are lengthy and preclude rapid changes in quantities and delivery schedules.
Also, long-term supply and maintenance obligations to customers increase the duration for which specific components are required, which may further increase the risk of component shortages or the cost of carrying inventory.
In the event of a component shortage, supply interruption or significant price increase from these suppliers, we may not be able to develop alternate or second sources in a timely manner.
In addition, the development, licensing, or acquisition of new products in the future may increase the complexity of supply chain management.
Failure to effectively manage the supply of components and products would adversely affect our business.
In the ordinary course of business, we store sensitive data, including intellectual property, personal data, our proprietary business information and that of our employees, contractors, customers, suppliers and business partners on our networks.
In addition, we store sensitive data through cloud-based services that may be hosted by third parties and in data center infrastructure maintained by third parties.
The secure maintenance of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy.
The growing cyber risk environment means that individuals, companies, and organizations of all sizes, including Juniper, have been and are increasingly subject to attacks and attempted intrusions, including recent attempts, on their and their vendors' networks and systems by a wide range of actors, including but not limited to nation states, criminal enterprises, and terrorist organizations, on an ongoing and regular basis.
Despite our security measures, and those of our third-party vendors, our information technology and infrastructure has experienced breaches and may be subject or vulnerable in the future to breaches or attacks by computer programmers, hackers or sophisticated nation-state and nation-state supported actors or breaches due to employee error or wrongful conduct, malfeasance, or other disruptions.
In addition, hardware, components and software (including operating system software) and applications that we produce or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including "bugs", vulnerabilities and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of our networks, or expose us or our products to cyber attacks, or be exploited to gain unauthorized access to our or our customers’ systems or information we maintain.
“legacy” products that have been determined to have reached an end of life engineering status but will continue to operate for a limited amount of time.
When vulnerabilities are discovered, we evaluate the risk, apply patches or take other remediation actions and notify customers, business partners, and suppliers as appropriate.
All of this requires significant resources and time and attention from management and our employees.
As a large, well known provider of networking products, cyber attackers regularly and specifically target our products or attempt to imitate us or our products in order to compromise a network.
Because the techniques used by attackers, many of whom are highly sophisticated and well-funded, to access or sabotage networks change frequently and generally are not recognized until after they are used, we may be unable to anticipate or immediately detect these techniques or the vulnerabilities they have caused.
The economic costs to us to eliminate or alleviate cyber or other security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software systems and security vulnerabilities could be significant and may be difficult to anticipate or measure, because the damage may differ based on the identity and motive of the attacker, which are often difficult to pinpoint.
Additionally, we could be subject to regulatory investigations, potential fines and litigation in connection with a security breach or related issue and be liable to third parties for these types of breaches.
We rely on value-added and other resellers, as well as distribution partners, to sell our products, and disruptions to, or our failure to effectively develop and manage, our distribution channel and the processes and procedures that support it could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products.
Our future success is highly dependent upon establishing and maintaining successful relationships with a variety of value-added and other reseller and distribution partners, including our worldwide strategic partners such as Ericsson, IBM, Dimension Data and NEC Corporation.
The majority of our revenues are derived through value-added resellers and distributors, most of which also sell our competitors’ products, and some of which sell their own competing products.
Our revenues depend in part on the performance of these partners.
If these sales are made based on inaccurate or untimely information, the amount or timing of our revenues could be adversely impacted.
Such sales could have a negative impact on our reputation and business.
Further, in order to develop and expand our distribution channel, we must continue to offer attractive channel programs to potential partners and scale and improve our processes and procedures that support the channel.
As a result, our programs, processes and procedures may become increasingly complex and inherently difficult to manage.
We have previously entered into OEM agreements with partners pursuant to which they rebrand and resell our products as part of their product portfolios.
These types of relationships are complex and require additional processes and procedures that may be challenging and costly to implement, maintain and manage.
Our failure to successfully manage and develop our distribution channel and the programs, processes and procedures that support it could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products.
We also depend on our global channel partners to comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
Our ability to process orders and ship products in a timely manner is dependent in part on our business systems and performance of the systems and processes of third parties as well as the interfaces between our systems and the systems of such third parties.
Some of our business processes depend upon our IT systems, the systems and processes of third parties, and the interfaces between the two.
For example, on December 31, 2018, we entered into a Master Services Agreement and certain Statements of Work with IBM pursuant to which we will outsource significant portions of our IT and other administrative functions following a transition period.
These cloud providers, third party providers, and off-site facilities are vulnerable to damage, interruption, including performance problems from earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, equipment failure, adverse events caused by operator error, cybersecurity attacks and similar events.
In addition, because we lease off-site data center facilities, we cannot be assured that we will be able to expand our data center infrastructure to meet user demand in a timely manner, or on favorable economic terms.
We also rely upon the performance of the systems and processes of our contract manufacturers to build and ship our products.
Since IT is critical to our operations, any failure to perform on the part of our IT providers could impair our ability to operate effectively.
We have made, and may continue to make, acquisitions in order to enhance our business.
For example, we acquired Mist Systems in 2019, HTBase in 2018 and Cyphort in 2017.
Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including, but not limited to, problems combining the purchased operations, technologies or products, unanticipated costs, liabilities, litigation, and diversion of management's attention from our core businesses, adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers, risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience, and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions, initial dependence on unfamiliar supply chains or relatively small supply partners, and the potential loss of key employees, customers, distributors, vendors and other business partners of the companies we acquire.
We, and certain of our current and former officers and current and former members of our Board of Directors, have been or are subject to various lawsuits.
In addition, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, and the U.S. Department of Justice, or the DOJ, previously conducted investigations into possible violations by the Company of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA, in a number of countries which ultimately resulted in the Company, without admitting or denying any fault or wrongdoing, entering into a settlement with the SEC in August 2019.
The SEC settlement concerned alleged conduct in two specific countries, found that the specific accounting controls over customer entertainment and travel were ineffective during the period from 2009 through 2013, and required the Company to make a payment of $11.8 million.
Telecommunications, cable and cloud service provider companies, which comprise a significant portion of our customer base, and other large companies, generally have greater purchasing power than smaller entities and, accordingly, often request and receive more favorable terms from suppliers.
Consolidation among such large customers can further increase their buying power and ability to require onerous terms.
We are subject to laws and regulations affecting the sale of our products in a number of areas.
For example, some governments have regulations prohibiting government entities from purchasing security products that do not meet country-specific safety, conformance or security certification criteria or in-country test requirements.
Other regulations that may negatively impact our business include local content or local manufacturing requirements most commonly applicable for government, state-owned enterprise or regulated industry procurements.
These types of regulations are in effect or under consideration in several jurisdictions where we do business.
The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act includes disclosure requirements applicable to public companies regarding the use of “conflict minerals” mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries, which we refer to collectively as the DRC, and procedures regarding a manufacturer's efforts to prevent the sourcing of such “conflict minerals.” These minerals are present in our products.
In addition, the European Union reached agreement in late 2016 on an EU-wide conflict minerals rule under which most EU importers of tin, tungsten, tantalum, gold and their ores will have to conduct due diligence to ensure the minerals do not originate from conflict zones and do not fund armed conflicts.
Large manufacturers also will have to disclose how they plan to monitor their sources to comply with the rules.
The regulation was adopted in 2017 with compliance required by 2021.
In addition, environmental laws and regulations relevant to electronic equipment manufacturing or operations, including laws and regulations governing the hazardous material content of our products and laws relating to the collection of and recycling of electrical and electronic equipment, may adversely impact our business and financial condition.
These laws and regulations include, among others, the European Union, or EU, Restriction on the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances Directive, or RoHS.
The EU RoHS and the similar laws of other jurisdictions limit the content of certain hazardous materials, such as lead, mercury, and cadmium, in electronic equipment, including our products.
Currently, our products comply with the EU RoHS requirements.
However, certain exemptions are scheduled to lapse.
The lapse of any exemption, further changes to this or other laws, or passage of similar laws in the EU or other jurisdictions, would require us to cease selling non-compliant products and to reengineer our products to use components compatible with these regulations.
In addition, in validating the compliance of our products with applicable hazardous materials restrictions, we rely substantially on affirmations by our component suppliers as to the compliance of their products with respect to those same restrictions.
Additionally, the EU and a number of other jurisdictions have adopted regulations requiring producers of electrical and electronic equipment to assume certain responsibilities for collecting, treating, recycling and disposing of products when they have reached the end of their useful life.
Finally, the EU REACH regulations regulate the handling of certain chemical substances that may be used in our products.
In addition, as a contractor and subcontractor to U.S. government departments and agencies, we are subject to federal regulations pertaining to our IT systems.
For instance, as a subcontractor to the U.S. Department of Defense, or DOD, the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement, or DFARS, required that our IT systems comply with the security and privacy controls described in National Institute of Standards and Technology Special Publication 800-171, or NIST SP 800-171.
The DFARS also requires that we flow the security control requirement down to certain of our own subcontractors.
jurisdictions are evaluating or implementing regulations relating to cyber security, supply chain integrity, privacy and data protection, any of which can affect the market and requirements for networking and security equipment.
Governmental regulations and economic sanctions affecting the import or export of products generally or affecting products containing encryption capabilities, in particular, could negatively affect our revenues and operating results.
The United States and various foreign governments have imposed controls and restrictions on the export of, among other things, products that contain or use encryption technology.
Most of our products contain or use encryption technology and, consequently, are subject to such controls, requirements and restrictions.
Certain governments, like those of Russia and China, control importation and in-country use of encryption items and technology.
The scope, nature and severity of such controls vary widely across different countries and may change frequently over time.
Increasingly, governments have begun using export and import controls not only to further national security objectives but also to protect local industries and restrict proliferation of locally developed “emerging or foundational technology."
For example, in 2018 the U.S. enacted the Export Control Reform Act, which expands the power of the Commerce Department to use export controls to protect domestic industry and to restrict the export of emerging and foundational technologies not currently subject to controls.
In furtherance of that law, on November 19, 2018, the United States Department of Commerce sought public comment on how to define emerging technologies.
Our ability to market and sell our products overseas may be impacted by such export controls.
In addition, the U.S. and other governments have especially broad sanctions and embargoes prohibiting provision of goods or services to certain countries, and territories, and to certain sanctioned governments, legal entities and individuals.
Some of these restrictions have been imposed not just to protect national security but also to protect domestic industries and to achieve political aims.
For instance, the U.S. Department of Commerce in 2018 added to its Entity List a Chinese semiconductor manufacturer on the express basis that it threatens the viability of U.S. competitors; the Entity List traditionally is used to restrict exports to end users that pose a security risk.
Particularly far reaching and complex are restrictions imposed by the U.S. and EU on exports to Russia and, in particular, to the disputed region of Crimea.
We have implemented systems to detect and prevent sales into these restricted countries or to prohibited entities or individuals, but there can be no assurance that our third party, downstream resellers and distributors will abide by these restrictions or have processes in place to ensure compliance, especially where local government regulation might prohibit adherence to such restrictions.
Certain governments also impose special local content, certification, testing, source code review, escrow and governmental recovery of private encryption keys, or other cybersecurity feature requirements to protect network equipment and software procured by or for the government.
Similar requirements also may be imposed in procurements by state owned entities (“SOE’s”) or even private companies forming part of “critical network infrastructure” or supporting sensitive industries.
For example, China, Vietnam and India have promulgated cybersecurity regulations affecting networking products that may impair our ability to profitably market and sell our products there.
China, in particular, is expected to require implementation of non-standard Chinese encryption algorithms in products sold into certain government, SOE, critical infrastructure and sensitive industry (such as financial institutions) markets.
In the U.S., there are new restrictions on the use of certain Chinese-origin components or systems either (1) in items sold to the U.S. government or (2) in the internal networks of government contractors and subcontractors (even if those networks are not used for government-related projects).
The U.S. government also might restrict or ban the use of certain Chinese-origin components and systems in next generation mobile communications networks (e.g.
In addition, governments sometimes impose additional taxes on certain imported products.
In 2018, the United States imposed tariffs on a large variety of products of China origin.
As a result, beginning September 24, 2018, a large portion of Juniper products manufactured in China became subject to a 10% tariff on importation into the U.S. pursuant to the U.S. government’s List 3 tariff proceeding.
The U.S. President announced on May 5, 2019, that the 25% rate would go into effect on May 10, 2019 due to the lack of negotiation progress.
On August 1, 2019, the President stated his intent to increase the List 3 tariff to 30%, which he announced would occur on October 15, 2019; this planned increase to 30% has been postponed indefinitely.
Similarly, in July 2019, the U.S. President reiterated his readiness to impose - tariffs on all remaining Chinese imports (List 4 tariff proceeding) if US-China negotiations remained unresolved.
Chinese imports effective September 1, 2019.
On May 30, 2019, the U.S. President announced his intention to impose a tariff on imports from Mexico effective June 10, 2019.
The tariff rate was to start at 5% and gradually increase to 25% over the course of several months unless and until Mexico took steps to reduce the number of migrant crossings over the US-Mexico border.
While the President subsequently announced a delay of the tariff, he left open the possibility that the United States could impose a tariff in the near future.
As the President never issued an order imposing the tariff, its exact scope was not known.
Juniper does obtain products having Mexico as their country-of-origin, so it is possible that we would be subject to any such tariff.
Governmental regulation of encryption or IP networking technology and regulation of imports or exports, or our failure to obtain required import or export approval for our products, or related economic sanctions could harm our international and domestic sales and adversely affect our revenues and operating results.
In addition, failure to comply with such regulations could result in harm to our reputation and ability to compete in international markets, penalties, costs, seizure of assets (including source code) and restrictions on import or export privileges or adversely affect sales to government agencies or government-funded projects.
A wide variety of provincial, state, national, foreign, and international laws and regulations apply to the collection, use, retention, protection, disclosure, transfer, and other processing of personal data.
These privacy- and data protection-related laws and regulations are evolving, with new or modified laws and regulations proposed and implemented frequently and existing laws and regulations subject to new or different interpretations.
Further, our legal and regulatory obligations in foreign jurisdictions are subject to unexpected changes, including the potential for regulatory or other governmental entities to enact new or additional laws or regulations, to issues rulings that invalidate prior laws or regulations, or to increase penalties significantly.
Compliance with these laws and regulations can be costly and can delay or impede the development and offering of new products and services.
For example, the General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”), which became effective in May 2018, imposes more stringent data protection requirements, and provides for significantly greater penalties for noncompliance, than the EU laws that previously applied.
Additionally, California recently enacted legislation, the California Consumer Privacy Act (“CCPA”), which will become effective January 1, 2020.
The CCPA will, among other requirements, require covered companies to provide new disclosures to California consumers, and allow such consumers new abilities to opt-out of certain sales of personal information.
It remains unclear the extent or timing of any modifications that will be made to the CCPA, or how such modifications will be interpreted.
The effects of the CCPA potentially are significant and may require us to modify our data processing practices and policies and to incur substantial costs and expenses in an effort to comply.
We may also be subject to additional obligations relating to personal data by contract that industry standards apply to our practices.
Further, evolving and changing definitions of personal data and personal information, within the EU, the U.S., U.K., and elsewhere, including the classification of IP addresses, machine identification information, location data, and other information, may limit or inhibit our ability to operate or expand our business, including limiting business relationships and partnerships that may involve the sharing or uses of data, and may require significant costs, resources, and efforts in order to comply.
Our future success depends upon our ability to recruit and retain the services of executive, engineering, sales and marketing, and support personnel.
The supply of highly qualified individuals, in particular engineers in very specialized technical areas, or sales people with specialized industry expertise, is limited and competition for such individuals is intense.
None of our officers or key employees is bound by an employment agreement for any specific term.
The loss of the services of any of our key employees, the inability to attract or retain personnel in the future or delays in hiring required personnel, engineers and sales people, and the complexity and time involved in replacing or training new employees, could delay the development and introduction of new products, and negatively impact our ability to market, sell, or support our products.
A number of our team members are foreign nationals who rely on visas and entry permits in order to legally work in the United States and other countries.
In recent years, the United States has increased the level of scrutiny in granting H-1(B), L-1 and other business visas.
In addition, the current U.S. administration has made immigration reform a priority.
Compliance with United States immigration and labor laws could require us to incur additional unexpected labor costs and expenses or could restrain our ability to retain skilled professionals.
We are required to test intangible assets with indefinite lives, including goodwill, annually or more frequently if certain circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit and intangible assets below their carrying values.
As of September 30, 2019, our goodwill was $3,338.3 million and our intangible assets with indefinite lives was $49.0 million.
When the carrying value of a reporting unit’s goodwill exceeds its implied fair value of goodwill, or if the carrying amount of an intangible asset with an indefinite life exceeds its fair value, a charge to operations is recorded.
Either event would result in incremental expenses for that quarter, which would reduce any earnings or increase any loss for the period in which the impairment was determined to have occurred.
We have in the past recorded goodwill impairment charges.
If the assumptions used in our analysis are not realized, it is possible that an impairment charge may need to be recorded in the future.
We cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of any impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets.
Furthermore, on October 5, 2015, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, or OECD, an international association of 35 countries including the U.S., published final proposals under its Base Erosion and Profit Shifting, or BEPS, Action Plan.
The BEPS Action Plan includes fifteen Actions to address BEPS in a comprehensive manner and represents a significant change to the international corporate tax landscape.
We generally enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants, vendors, and customers, and generally limit access to and distribution of our proprietary information.
However, we cannot assure you that we have entered into such agreements with all parties who may have or have had access to our confidential information or that the agreements we have entered into will not be breached.
We cannot guarantee that any of the measures we have taken will prevent misappropriation of our technology.
Furthermore, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States.
The outcome of any actions taken in these foreign countries may be different than if such actions were determined under the laws of the United States.
•political uncertainty, including demonstrations, that could have an impact on product delivery from and into the China region.
In addition, the U.K.’s exit from the EU, commonly referred to as Brexit, has caused, and may continue to cause, uncertainty in the global markets.
Brexit, if implemented, will take some period of time to complete and could result in regulatory changes that impact our business.
For example, changes to the way service providers conduct business and transmit data between the U.K. and the EU could require us to make changes to the way we handle customer data.
We will also review the impact of any resulting changes to EU or U.K. law that could affect our operations, such as labor policies, financial planning, product manufacturing, and product distribution.
Political and regulatory responses to the vote are still developing and we are in the process of assessing the impact the vote may have on our business as more information becomes available.
There remains significant risk that the U.K. will exit from the EU without agreement between the EU and U.K. on terms addressing customs and trade matters.
If it occurs, this “Hard Brexit” scenario would mean, among other things, that U.K. Customs would have to clear a far greater daily volume of imports than it has ever had to before.
Hard Brexit could result in further short-term uncertainty and currency volatility.
Additional currency volatility could drive a weaker British pound, which increases the cost of goods imported into our U.K. operations and may decrease the profitability of our U.K. operations.
A weaker British pound versus the U.S. dollar also causes local currency results of our U.K. operations to be translated into fewer U.S. dollars during a reporting period.
Our business is also impacted by the negotiation and implementation of free trade agreements between the United States and other nations.
Such agreements can reduce barriers to international trade and thus the cost of conducting business overseas.
For instance, the United States recently reached a new trilateral trade agreement with the Governments of Canada and Mexico to replace the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA).
If the United States either withdraws from NAFTA or fails to ratify the new agreement, known as the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (U.S.MCA), our cost of doing business within the three countries could increase.
Many of the products that we have manufactured in China are transported by air cargo from Hong Kong.
Recently, there have been political demonstrations in Hong Kong that have resulted in cancellations or delays in flights in and out of China.
Our products are highly technical and complex, are critical to the operation of many networks, and, in the case of our security products, provide and monitor network security and may protect valuable information.
Our products have contained and may contain one or more undetected errors, defects, malware, or security vulnerabilities.
These errors may arise from hardware or software we produce or procure from third parties.
Some errors in our products may only be discovered after a product has been installed and used by end-customers.
In addition, in the event an error, defect, malware, or vulnerability is attributable to a component supplied by a third-party vendor, we may not be able to recover from the vendor all of the costs of remediation that we may incur.
Defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, is costly and may divert management’s attention.
Moreover, if our products fail to satisfy our customers' quality expectations for whatever reason, the perception of and the demand for our products could be adversely affected.
Because a substantial portion of our business is conducted outside the United States, we face exposure to adverse movements in non-U.S. currency exchange rates.
We also have some transactions that are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the British Pound, Chinese Yuan, Euro, and Indian Rupee related to our sales and service operations outside of the United States.
An increase in the value of the U.S. Dollar could increase the real cost to our customers of our products in those markets outside the United States in which we sell in U.S.
A weakened U.S. Dollar could increase the cost of local operating expenses and procurement of raw materials to the extent we must purchase components in foreign currencies.
Currently, we hedge currency exposures associated with certain assets and liabilities denominated in nonfunctional currencies and periodically hedge anticipated foreign currency cash flows, with the aim of offsetting the impact of currency fluctuations on these exposures.
However, hedge activities can be costly, and hedging cannot fully offset all risks, including long-term declines or appreciation in the value of the U.S. Dollar.
We will need to continue to improve our financial and managerial control and our reporting systems and procedures in order to manage our business effectively in the future.
Our products are designed to interface with our customers’ existing networks, each of which have different specifications and utilize multiple protocol standards and products from other vendors.
Many of our customers’ networks contain multiple generations of products that have been added over time as these networks have grown and evolved.
or all of the products within these networks as well as future products in order to meet our customers’ requirements.
We integrate licensed third-party technology into certain of our products.
Some of our agreements with our licensors may be terminated for convenience by them.
We rely on the availability and performance of information technology services provided by third parties, including IBM which will manage a significant portion of our systems.
Under the terms of our recent Master Services Agreement and certain Statements of Work, following a transition period, IBM will provide us with a broad range of information technology services, such as applications, including support, development and maintenance; infrastructure management and support, including for servers storage and network devices; and end user support including service desk.
We expect that our businesses will become dependent on the services provided and systems operated for us by IBM and its third-party providers.
Our success is dependent on our ability to maintain effective relationships with IBM and other third-party technology and service providers as well as the ability of IBM and any other third-party providers to perform as expected.
We may terminate our agreement with IBM and any and all Statements of Work at any time on short notice for cause, convenience, certain specific performance failures, a breach of warranties by IBM, failure to transition, failure to transform, changes in law, force majeure, or a change in the control of either IBM or us.
Depending on the type and timing of a termination, we may be required to pay certain termination amounts to IBM.
IBM's only right to terminate the Master Services Agreement is based on our failure to comply with certain terms applying to disputed payments.
These risks include, but are not limited to, disruption in services and the failure to protect the security and integrity of our data under the terms of the agreement.
We are unable to provide assurances that some or all of these risks will not occur.
We are required to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and publicly disclose material weaknesses in our controls.
Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires our management to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and to disclose in our filing if such controls were unable to provide assurance that a material error would be prevented or detected in a timely manner.
We have an ongoing program to review the design of our internal controls framework in keeping with changes in business needs, implement necessary changes to our controls design and test the system and process controls necessary to comply with these requirements.
The major credit rating agencies routinely evaluate our indebtedness.
This evaluation is based on a number of factors, which include financial strength as well as transparency with rating agencies and timeliness of financial reporting.
We may be unable to generate the cash flow to satisfy our expenses, make anticipated capital expenditures or service our debt obligations, including the Notes and the Revolving Credit Facility.
As of September 30, 2019, we have issued $1,700.0 million in aggregate principal amount of senior notes, which we refer to collectively as the Notes, and had $1,687.6 million in total outstanding debt.
In April 2019, we entered into a new credit agreement with certain institutional lenders that provides for a five-year $500.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility, which we refer to as the Revolving Credit Facility, with an option to increase the Revolving Credit Facility by up to an additional $200.0 million, subject to the lenders' approval.
The credit agreement will terminate in April 2024, at which point all amounts borrowed must be repaid (subject to two one-year maturity extension options).
We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to enable us to satisfy our expenses, make anticipated capital expenditures or service our indebtedness, including the Notes and the Revolving Credit Facility (if drawn upon).
Our ability to pay our expenses, satisfy our debt obligations, refinance our debt obligations and fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control.
Based upon current levels of operations, we believe cash flow from operations and available cash will be adequate for at least the next twelve months to meet our anticipated requirements for working capital, capital expenditures and scheduled payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness, including the Notes and the Revolving Credit Facility (if drawn upon).
However, if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or to borrow sufficient funds in the future to service our debt, we may be required to sell assets, reduce capital expenditures, refinance all or a portion of our existing debt (including the Notes) or obtain additional financing.
There is no assurance that we will be able to refinance our debt, sell assets or borrow more money on terms acceptable to us, or at all.
•consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all of our assets to, another person.
•maintenance of a leverage ratio no greater than 3.0x (provided that if a material acquisition has been consummated,
we are permitted to maintain a leverage ratio no greater than 3.5x for up to four quarters) and an interest coverage ratio no less than 3.0x
•covenants that limit or restrict the ability of the Company and its subsidiaries to, among other things, grant liens, merge or consolidate, dispose of all or substantially all of its assets, change their accounting or reporting policies, change their business and incur subsidiary indebtedness, in each case subject to customary exceptions for a credit facility of this size and type.
Accordingly, these restrictions may limit our ability to successfully operate our business.
A failure to comply with these restrictions could lead to an event of default, which could result in an acceleration of the indebtedness, which could result in an event of default under our other debt instruments.
Our future operating results may not be sufficient to enable compliance with these covenants to remedy any such default.
In addition, in the event of an acceleration, we may not have or be able to obtain sufficient funds to make any accelerated payments, including those under the Notes, and the Revolving Credit Facility (if drawn upon).
The Tax Act generally limits the annual deduction for net business interest expense to an amount equal to 30% of adjusted taxable income.
A portion of the transaction consideration we received from the divestiture of our Junos Pulse product portfolio is in the form of a non-contingent seller promissory note and we may not receive the amount owed to us (including accrued interest), including in the time frame contemplated, by the buyer under the note.
In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014, we completed the sale of our Junos Pulse product portfolio to an affiliate of Siris Capital, a private equity firm, for total consideration of $230.7 million, of which $125.0 million was in the form of an 18-month non-contingent interest-bearing promissory note issued to the Company.
On May 1, 2017, we received a principal payment in the amount of $75.0 million and outstanding interest on the note, and we and the issuer agreed to further amend the terms of the note with respect to the remaining approximately $58.0 million to, among other things, extend the maturity date from December 31, 2018 to September 30, 2022, provided that interest due can be paid in kind by increasing the outstanding principal amount of the note and subordinate the note to other debt issued by senior lenders.
Since a portion of the transaction consideration is in the form of a non-contingent seller promissory note and the note is subordinated to debt issued by senior lenders, there is the risk that we may not receive the amount owed to us (including accrued interest), including in the time frame contemplated, under the note.
Our ability to pay quarterly dividends or achieve our intended capital return policy will be subject to, among other things, our financial position and results of operations, available cash and cash flow, capital and debt service requirements, use of cash for acquisitions and other factors.
Any failure to pay or increase future dividends as announced, or a reduction or discontinuation of quarterly dividends could have a material adverse effect on our stock price.
In January 2018, we announced that our Board of Directors approved a new $2.0 billion buyback authorization, which replaced our prior authorization and in October 2019, the Board authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $1.0 billion of common stock under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program.
In January 2019, our Board of Directors declared an increase to our quarterly cash dividend to $0.19 per share.
In October 2019, we entered into an ASR for an amount up to $200.0 million under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program.
The investment of our cash balance and our investments in government and corporate debt securities and equity securities are subject to risks, which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments.
At September 30, 2019, we had $1,204.8 million in cash and cash equivalents and $1,621.9 million in short-and long-term investments.
We have invested these amounts primarily in asset-backed securities, certificates of deposit, commercial paper, corporate debt securities, foreign government debt securities, money market funds, mutual funds, time deposits, U.S. government agency securities, and U.S. government securities.
We also have $94.4 million in other long-term assets for our investments in privately-held companies.
Certain of our investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market, sovereign debt, and interest rate risks.
Changes in the method of determining the London Interbank Offered Rate, or LIBOR, or the replacement of LIBOR with an alternative reference rate, may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.
Certain of our financial obligations and instruments, including our credit facility, Pulse note, supplier finance programs, and floating rate notes that we have invested in, as well as interest rate swaps that we use as fair value hedges of our fixed-rate 2041 Notes, are or may be made at variable interest rates that use LIBOR (or metrics derived from or related to LIBOR) as a benchmark for establishing the interest rate.
On July 27, 2017, the United Kingdom’s Financial Conduct Authority announced that it intends to stop persuading or compelling banks to submit LIBOR rates after 2021.
These reforms may cause LIBOR to perform differently than in the past or to disappear entirely.
These reforms may also result in new methods of calculating LIBOR to be established, or alternative reference rates to be established.
For example, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York has begun publishing a Secured Overnight Funding Rate, or SOFR, which is intended to replace U.S. dollar LIBOR, and central banks in several other jurisdictions have also announced plans for alternative reference rates for other currencies.
In addition, any transition process may involve, among other things, increased volatility or illiquidity in markets for instruments that rely on LIBOR, reductions in the value of certain instruments or the effectiveness of related transactions such as hedges, increased borrowing costs, uncertainty under applicable documentation, or difficult and costly consent processes.
Our amended and restated bylaws provide that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the sole and exclusive forum for substantially all disputes between us and our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders’ ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, or employees.
Our amended and restated bylaws provide that, unless we consent to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware (or if the Court of Chancery does not have jurisdiction, the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware) is the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf; (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of fiduciary duty owed by any of our current or former directors, officers, or other employees to us or to our stockholders; (iii) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law, our restated certificate of incorporation, or our bylaws; (iv) any action or proceeding asserting a claim as to which Delaware General Corporation Law confers jurisdiction on the Court of Chancery or (v) any action asserting a claim governed by the internal affairs doctrine.
The exclusive forum provisions in our bylaws may limit a stockholder’s ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our current or former directors, officers, or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our current or former directors, officers, and other employees.
Uninsured losses could harm our operating results.
We also maintain a program of insurance coverage for various types of property, casualty, and other risks.
We place our insurance coverage with various carriers in numerous jurisdictions.
The types and amounts of insurance that we obtain vary from time to time and from location to location, depending on availability, cost, and our decisions with respect to risk retention.
The policies are subject to deductibles, policy limits, and exclusions that result in our retention of a level of risk on a self-insurance basis.
failures that may occur.
