The unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements of Juniper Networks, Inc. (the “Company” or “Juniper”) have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
GAAP”) for interim financial information.
Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by U.S. GAAP for complete financial statements.
The Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2017 has been derived from the audited Consolidated Financial Statements at that date.
The results of operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the year ending December 31, 2018, or any future period.
Except for the change in certain policies upon adoption of the accounting standards described below, there have been no material changes to the Company's significant accounting policies, compared to the accounting policies described in Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies, in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II of the Form 10-K.
Revenue is recognized when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services by following a five-step process, (1) identify the contract with a customer, (2) identify the performance obligations in the contract, (3) determine the transaction price, (4) allocate the transaction price, and (5) recognize revenue when or as the Company satisfies a performance obligation, as further described below.
Identify the performance obligations in the contract.
Product performance obligations include hardware and software licenses and service performance obligations include maintenance, software post-contract support, training, and professional services.
Certain software licenses and related post-contract support are combined into a single performance obligation when the maintenance updates are critical to the continued functionality of the software.
The transaction price for the Company’s contracts with its customers consists of both fixed and variable consideration provided it is probable that a significant reversal of revenue will not occur when the uncertainty related to variable consideration is resolved.
Fixed consideration includes amounts to be contractually billed to the customer while variable consideration includes estimates for rights of return, rebates, and price protection, which are based on historical sales returns and price protection credits, specific criteria outlined in rebate agreements, and other factors known at the time.
The Company generally invoices customers for hardware, software licenses and related maintenance arrangements at time of delivery, and professional services either upfront or upon meeting certain milestones.
Customer invoices are generally due within 30 to 90 days after issuance.
The Company’s contracts with customers typically do not include significant financing components as the period between the transfer of performance obligations and timing of payment are generally within one year.
Allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract.
For contracts that contain multiple performance obligations, the Company allocates the transaction price to the performance obligations on a relative standalone selling price basis.
Recognize revenue when or as the Company satisfies a performance obligation.
Revenue for hardware and certain software licenses, are recognized at a point in time, which is generally upon shipment or delivery.
Certain software licenses combined with post-contract support are recognized over time on a ratable basis over the term of the license.
Revenue for maintenance and software post-contract support is recognized over time on a ratable basis over the contract term.
Revenue from training and professional services is recognized over time as services are completed or ratably over the contractual period of generally one year or less.
Sales commissions earned by the Company’s sales force are considered incremental and recoverable costs of obtaining a contract with a customer.
These costs are deferred and then amortized over a period of benefit which is typically over the term of the customer contracts as initial commission rates and renewal rates are the same.
For available-for-sale debt securities that have unrealized losses, the Company assesses impairment by evaluating various factors, including whether (i) it has the intention to sell any of these investments and (ii) whether it is more likely than not that it will be required to sell any of these investments before recovery of the entire amortized cost basis.
As of September 30, 2018, the Company had 539 investments in unrealized loss positions.
The gross unrealized losses related to these investments were primarily due to changes in market interest rates.
The Company anticipates that it will recover the entire amortized cost basis of such available-for-sale debt securities and has determined that no other-than-temporary impairments associated with credit losses were required to be recognized during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017.
During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017, there were no material gross realized gains or losses from available-for-sale debt securities.
For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017, there were no material unrealized gains or losses recognized for equity investments.
All of the Company's privately-held debt and redeemable preferred stock securities are classified as Level 3 assets due to the lack of observable inputs to determine fair value.
The Company estimates the fair value of its privately-held debt and redeemable preferred stock securities on a recurring basis using an analysis of the financial condition and near-term prospects of the investee, including recent financing activities and the investee's capital structure.
During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, there were no significant activities related to privately-held debt and redeemable preferred stocks securities.
Certain of the Company's assets, including intangible assets and goodwill, are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis, when they are deemed to be other-than temporarily impaired.
There were no impairment charges recognized during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018.
Equity investments without readily determinable fair value are measured at fair value, when they are deemed to be impaired or when there is an adjustment from observable price changes.
For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, there were no impairment charges or adjustments resulting from observable price changes for equity investments without readily determinable fair value.
As of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the Company had no liabilities required to be measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis.
The carrying amounts of the Company's accounts receivable, accounts payable, and other accrued liabilities approximate fair value due to their short maturities.
As of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the estimated fair value of the Company's short-term and long-term debt in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets was $2,168.4 million and $2,252.9 million, respectively, based on observable market inputs (Level 2).
The carrying value of the promissory note issued to the Company in connection with the previously completed sale of Junos Pulse (the “Pulse Note”), along with the accumulated interest paid in kind, of $64.6 million and $61.2 million approximates its fair value as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.
The Pulse Note is classified as a Level 3 asset due to the lack of observable inputs to determine fair value.
The Company uses derivatives to partially offset its market exposure to fluctuations in certain foreign currencies and does not enter into derivatives for speculative or trading purposes.
The Company uses foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the Company's planned cost of revenues and operating expenses denominated in foreign currencies.
Execution of cash flow hedge derivatives typically occurs every month with maturities of eighteen months or less.
As of September 30, 2018, an estimated $5.8 million of unrealized net loss within accumulated other comprehensive loss is expected to be reclassified into earnings within the next 12 months.
The Company recognized an unrealized loss of $6.1 million and $8.6 million in accumulated other comprehensive loss for the effective portion of its derivative instruments for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively; and an unrealized gain of $6.8 million and $17.6 million for the comparable periods in fiscal 2017, respectively.
The Company reclassified a loss of $3.1 million and a gain of $5.8 million out of accumulated other comprehensive loss to cost of revenues and operating expenses in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively.
The amounts reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive loss to cost of revenues and operating expenses in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations were not material during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017.
The ineffective portion of the Company's derivative instruments recognized in its Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations was not material during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017.
The Company also uses foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate variability in gains and losses generated from the remeasurement of certain monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies.
These foreign exchange forward contracts typically have maturities of approximately one to three months.
The outstanding non-designated derivative instruments are carried at fair value.
Changes in the fair value of these derivatives recorded in other expense, net within the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations were not material during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017.
See Note 10, Segments, for disaggregated revenue by product and service, customer vertical, and geographic region.
Product revenue of $21.1 million and $77.6 million included in deferred revenue at January 1, 2018 was recognized during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively.
Service revenue of $150.0 million and $581.3 million included in deferred revenue at January 1, 2018 was recognized during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively.
Deferred commissions were $26.9 million as of September 30, 2018.
For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, amortization expense for the deferred commissions was $31.2 million and $109.4 million, respectively.
There were no impairment charges recognized during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018.
In connection with the 2018 Restructuring Plan, the Company recorded $4.9 million of severance costs to restructuring charges in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018.
Subsequent to September 30, 2018, the Company amended the 2018 Restructuring Plan to further implement certain organizational changes resulting in a realignment of its workforce.
As a result, the Company expects to record severance charges of approximately $5.0 million related to headcount reductions in the fourth quarter of 2018 and the Company does not anticipate future charges under the 2018 Restructuring Plan.
During 2017, the Company initiated a restructuring plan (the “2017 Restructuring Plan”) to realign its workforce and increase operational efficiencies.
The 2017 Restructuring Plan consisted of severance and contract termination costs that were recorded to restructuring charges in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, the Company recorded insignificant favorable adjustments for changes in previous estimates.
The 2017 Restructuring Plan is substantially complete.
The Company expects to pay the remaining restructuring liabilities by the end of the first quarter of 2019, at which time the Company would consider the 2018 Restructuring Plan to be substantially complete.
Any future dividends, and the establishment of record and payment dates, are subject to approval by the Board of Directors (the “Board”) of Juniper Networks or an authorized committee thereof.
See Note 14, Subsequent Event, for discussion of the Company's dividend declaration subsequent to September 30, 2018.
The 2018 Stock Repurchase Program replaces the previous authorization approved by the Board in 2014 ("2014 Stock Repurchase Program").
As part of the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program, in February 2018, the Company entered into an accelerated share repurchase program (the "ASR") with two financial institutions to repurchase $750.0 million of the Company's common stock.
During the three months ended March 31, 2018, the Company made an up-front payment of $750.0 million pursuant to the ASR and received an initial 23.3 million shares of the Company's common stock, based on the market value of the Company's common stock on the date of the transaction.
During the three months ended September 30, 2018, the ASR was completed and an additional 6.0 million shares were received from the financial institutions for a total repurchase of 29.3 million shares of the Company's common stock at a volume weighted average repurchase price, less an agreed upon discount, of $25.62 per share.
The shares received with respect to the ASR were retired and accounted for as a reduction to stockholders' equity in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
As of September 30, 2018, there were $1.3 billion of authorized funds remaining under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program.
Future share repurchases under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program will be subject to a review of the circumstances at that time and will be made from time to time in private transactions or open market purchases as permitted by securities laws and other legal requirements.
The Company's 2018 Stock Repurchase Program may be discontinued at any time.
The Company has stock-based compensation plans pursuant to which it has granted stock options, restricted stock units (“RSUs”), and performance share awards (“PSAs”).
The Company also maintains its 2008 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the “ESPP”) for all eligible employees.
As of September 30, 2018, 23.3 million and 8.7 million shares were available for future issuance under the Company's 2015 Equity Incentive Plan (the "2015 Plan") and the ESPP, respectively.
On November 6, 2017, the Company’s Compensation Committee amended and restated the ESPP to provide that the offering period that began on February 1, 2018 would be for 24 months with four 6-month purchase periods.
The purchase price for the Company’s common stock under the ESPP is 85% of the lower of the fair market value of the shares at (1) the beginning of the applicable offering period or (2) the end of each 6-month purchase period during such offering period.
The ESPP will continue in effect until February 25, 2028, unless terminated earlier under the provisions of the ESPP.
As of September 30, 2018, the total unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested share-based awards was $320.2 million to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.6 years.
The Company's chief executive officer, who is the chief operating decision maker, reviews financial information presented on a consolidated basis for purposes of allocating resources and evaluating financial performance, accompanied by disaggregated information about net revenues by product and service, customer vertical, and geographic region as presented below.
The Company's effective tax rate during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 differs from the federal statutory rate of 21%, primarily due to the recognition of certain previously unrecognized tax benefits of $67.6 million, which includes interest of $8.4 million, a reduction of expected tax liabilities of $33.2 million, federal research and development credits and a favorable change in the forecasted geographic mix of earnings.
The recognition of $67.6 million in previously unrecognized tax benefits is due to a lapse in the federal statute of limitations relative to fiscal years 2010 through 2014.
The reduction of expected tax liabilities of $33.2 million is a result of filing a change in accounting method for the tax recognition of deferred product revenue in the U.S. to better align with the financial statement recognition of such revenue.
Effective January 1, 2018, the Tax Act reduced the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% and created a minimum tax on foreign earnings.
Due to the timing of the enactment and the complexity involved in applying the provisions of the Tax Act, the Company made reasonable estimates of the effects and recorded provisional amounts in the financial statements as of December 31, 2017.
While the Company believes it has largely completed its analysis and related impacts of the Tax Act, the Company expects further guidance from revenue and taxation authorities in the fourth quarter of 2018, particularly from state authorities, which may impact the tax effects.
As a result, the Company may make adjustments to the provisional amounts which may materially impact its provision for income taxes from continuing operations in the period in which the adjustments are made.
The Company will complete the accounting for the tax effects of the Tax Act in the fourth quarter of 2018.
The Tax Act also includes provisions to tax Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income (“GILTI”) of foreign subsidiaries in excess of a deemed return on their tangible assets.
The Company anticipates further guidance in the form of tax regulations to be issued by the U.S. Treasury in the fourth quarter of 2018, regarding the utilization of foreign tax credits relative to GILTI.
Due to the complexities of the new provisions and the anticipated regulations referenced above, the Company is continuing to evaluate how the provisions will be accounted for under U.S. GAAP.
Pursuant to the Tax Act, corporations are allowed to make an accounting policy election to either (i) account for GILTI as a component of income tax expense in the period in which the corporation is subject to the rules (the “period cost method”), or (ii) account for GILTI in the corporation's measurement of deferred taxes (the “deferred method”).
The Company has not currently elected a method and will do so after completing its analysis of the GILTI provisions of the Tax Act depending on the analysis of the Company’s global income.
Therefore, the Company has not recorded any potential deferred tax effects related to GILTI in its financial statements and has not yet made an accounting policy election regarding whether to record deferred taxes on GILTI or use the period cost method.
The Company has, however, included an estimate of the current GILTI impact in its annual effective tax rate for 2018.
As of September 30, 2018, the total amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits was $205.0 million, of which $183.3 million, if recognized, would affect the effective tax rate.
The Company engages in continuous discussions and negotiations with tax authorities regarding tax matters in various jurisdictions.
Except for the items below, there have been no material changes to the Company's commitments compared to the commitments described in Note 16, Commitments and Contingencies, in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II of the Form 10-K.
In order to reduce manufacturing lead times and in the interest of having access to adequate component supply, the Company enters into agreements with contract manufacturers and certain suppliers to procure inventory based on the Company's requirements.
A significant portion of the Company's purchase commitments arising from these agreements consists of firm and non-cancelable commitments.
These purchase commitments totaled $610.9 million as of September 30, 2018.
The Company establishes a liability in connection with purchase commitments related to quantities in excess of its demand forecasts or obsolete materials charges for components purchased by the contract manufacturers based on the Company’s demand forecast or customer orders.
As of September 30, 2018, the Company had accrued $23.6 million based on its estimate of such charges.
The Company enters into agreements with customers that contain indemnification provisions relating to potential situations where claims could be alleged that the Company’s products solely, or in combination with other third party products, infringe the intellectual property rights of a third-party.
As of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the Company recorded $12.0 million and $20.4 million, respectively, for such indemnification obligations in other accrued liabilities and other long-term liabilities on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The Company previously disclosed that it has been the subject of investigations by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") and the U.S. Department of Justice ("DOJ") into possible violations by the Company of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA").
As a result of its internal investigation, the Company made significant improvements in its internal controls and carried out a number of disciplinary actions.
In the fourth quarter of 2017, the DOJ notified the Company that the DOJ has closed its investigation related to these matters without taking any action against the Company.
The Company is continuing to fully cooperate with the SEC’s ongoing investigation, and based on the Company’s recent communications with the Staff of the SEC, the Company believes that it is likely that the Staff of the SEC will seek to bring an enforcement action against the Company.
The Company believes it is probable that it could incur a loss and has established an estimated legal reserve of $12.0 million related to the ongoing SEC investigation; however, as discussions are continuing, there can be no assurance as to the timing or the terms of any final resolution of this matter.
On October 23, 2018, the Company announced that it had declared a cash dividend of $0.18 per share of common stock payable on December 26, 2018 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on December 5, 2018.
The information set forth under the “Legal Proceedings” section in Note 13, Commitments and Contingencies, in Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this Report, is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 1A.
Investments in our securities involve significant risks.
For example, we, and many companies in our industry, experience adverse seasonal fluctuations in customer spending, particularly in the first quarter.
Such adjustments may be difficult or impossible to execute in the short or medium term.
For example, in fiscal year 2017, our margins decreased as compared to fiscal year 2016, primarily due to lower product net revenues and product mix, resulting from the year-over-year decline in routing revenues, our customers' architectural shifts, and higher costs of certain memory components.
In fiscal year 2016, our margins decreased compared to fiscal year 2015, primarily due to elevated pricing pressure and product mix.
In fiscal year 2015, our margins increased compared to fiscal year 2014, as a result of higher restructuring and other charges recorded in 2014 but not in 2015, in connection with the restructuring plan we initiated in the first quarter of 2014.
Further, we will continue to remain diligent in our long-term financial objective to increase revenue and operating margins and manage our operating expenses as a percentage of revenue.
We expect that our margins will vary with our ability to achieve these goals.
We can provide no assurance that we will be able to achieve all or any of the goals of these plans or meet our announced expectations, in whole or in part, or that our plans will have the intended effect of improving our margins on the expected timeline, or at all.
A limited number of our customers comprise a material portion of our revenues and any changes in the way they purchase products and services from us could affect our business.
In addition, there is an ongoing trend toward consolidation in the industry in which our customers and partners operate.
A substantial portion of our business and revenues depends on the growth of secure IP infrastructure and on the deployment of our products by customers that depend on the continued growth of IP services.
As a result of changes in the economy, capital spending or the building of network capacity in excess of demand, all of which have in the past particularly affected telecommunications service providers, spending on IP infrastructure can vary, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.
In addition, a number of our existing customers are evaluating the build-out of their next generation networks.
suspend their spending on secure IP infrastructure.
For example, in recent quarters, our switching and routing results were adversely affected by spending delays from our largest Cloud customers, who we believe are in the process of implementing a networking architectural shift.
The duration of the delay is difficult to predict, in part because each Cloud customer will migrate their network architecture based on their own constraints.
Competition is intense in the markets that we serve.
The routing and switching markets have historically been dominated by Cisco, with competition coming from other companies such as Nokia Corporation (following its acquisition of Alcatel-Lucent), Arista, HPE, and Huawei.
In the security market, we face intense competition from Cisco and Palo Alto Networks, as well as companies such as Check Point, F5 Networks, and Fortinet.
Further, a number of other small public and private companies have products or have announced plans for new products to address the same challenges and markets that our products address.
A customer's decision to purchase certain of our products, particularly new products, involves a significant commitment of its resources and a lengthy evaluation and product qualification process.
As a result, the sales cycle may be lengthy.
Throughout the sales cycle, we may spend considerable time educating and providing information to prospective customers regarding the use and benefits of our products.
Even after making the decision to purchase, customers may deploy our products slowly and deliberately.
Timing of deployment can vary widely and depends on the skill set of the customer, the size of the network deployment, the complexity of the customer's network environment, and the degree of hardware and operating system configuration necessary to deploy the products.
Customers with large networks usually expand their networks in large increments on a periodic basis.
Accordingly, we may receive purchase orders for significant dollar amounts on an irregular basis.
Due to the cost, complexity and custom nature of configurations required by our customers, we generally build our network equipment products as orders are received.
The volume of orders received late in any given fiscal quarter remains unpredictable.
The introduction of new software products and services is part of our intended strategy to expand our software business, and certain software revenues may be recognized periodically over the term of the relevant use period or subscription period.
As a result, certain software, subscription and support and maintenance revenue we report each fiscal quarter is the recognition of deferred revenue from contracts entered into during previous fiscal quarters.
Consequently, a decline in such new or renewed contracts in any one fiscal quarter will not be fully or immediately reflected in revenue in that fiscal quarter but will negatively affect our revenue in future fiscal quarters.
Also, it is difficult for us to rapidly increase such software or services revenue through additional sales in any period, as revenue from those software, subscription and support and maintenance contracts must be recognized over the applicable period.
Additionally, we determine our operating expenses largely on the basis of anticipated revenues and technology roadmap and a high percentage of our expenses are fixed in the short and medium term.
We may not be able to anticipate future technological shifts, market needs and opportunities or be able to develop new products, product enhancements or business strategies to meet such technological shifts, needs or opportunities in a timely manner or at all.
For example, the move from traditional wide area network, or WAN, infrastructures towards software-defined WAN, or SD-WAN, has been receiving considerable attention.
In our view, it will take several years to see the full impact of SD-WAN, and we believe the successful products and solutions in this market will combine hardware and software elements.
In recent years, we have announced a number of new products and enhancements to our hardware and software products across routing, switching and security.
Although we have contracts with our contract manufacturers, these contracts do not require them to manufacture our products on a long-term basis in any specific quantity or at any specific price.
In addition, it is time-consuming and costly to qualify and implement additional contract manufacturer relationships.
Therefore, if we fail to effectively manage our contract manufacturer relationships, which includes failing to provide accurate forecasts of our requirements, or if one or more of them experiences delays, disruptions, or quality control problems in our manufacturing operations, or if we had to change or add additional contract manufacturers or contract manufacturing sites, our ability to ship products to our customers could be delayed.
We have experienced in the past and may experience in the future an increase in the expected time required to manufacture our products or ship products.
Also, the addition of manufacturing locations or contract manufacturers or the introduction of new products by us would increase the complexity of our supply chain management.
Moreover, a significant portion of our manufacturing is performed in China and other foreign countries and is therefore subject to risks associated with doing business outside of the United States, including the possibility of import tariffs or regional conflicts.
For example, the United States recently imposed a tariff on networking products imported from China; this includes certain products that we import into and sell within the United States.
In addition, increased costs of production or delays in production caused by any relocation of contract manufacturing facilities could impact the global competitiveness of our products.
We are dependent on sole source and limited source suppliers, including for several key components, which makes us susceptible to shortages, quality issues or price fluctuations in our supply chain, and we may face increased challenges in supply chain management in the future.
may be beyond our control.
Such a disruption could occur as a result of any number of events, including, but not limited to, increases in wages that drive up prices, the imposition of regulations, quotas or embargoes on components, labor stoppages, transportation failures affecting the supply chain and shipment of materials and finished goods, third party interference in the integrity of the products sourced through the supply chain, the unavailability of raw materials, severe weather conditions, natural disasters, civil unrest, military conflicts, geopolitical developments, war or terrorism and disruptions in utility and other services.
The development of alternate sources for components is time-consuming, difficult, and costly.
In addition, the lead times associated with certain components are lengthy and preclude rapid changes in quantities and delivery schedules.
Also, long-term supply and maintenance obligations to customers increase the duration for which specific components are required, which may further increase the risk of component shortages or the cost of carrying inventory.
In the event of a component shortage or supply interruption from these suppliers, we may not be able to develop alternate or second sources in a timely manner.
In addition, the development, licensing, or acquisition of new products in the future may increase the complexity of supply chain management.
Failure to effectively manage the supply of components and products would adversely affect our business.
In the ordinary course of business, we store sensitive data, including intellectual property, personal data, our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners on our networks.
In addition, we store sensitive data through cloud-based services that may be hosted by third parties and in data center infrastructure maintained by third parties.
The secure maintenance of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy.
The growing cyber risk environment means that individuals, companies, and organizations of all sizes, including Juniper, have been and are increasingly subject to the threat of intrusions on their networks and systems by a wide range of actors, including but not limited to nation states, criminal enterprises, and terrorist organizations, on an ongoing and regular basis.
Despite our security measures, and those of our third-party vendors, our information technology and infrastructure has experienced breaches and may be vulnerable in the future to breach or attacks by computer programmers, hackers or sophisticated nation-state and nation-state supported actors or breached due to employee error or wrongful conduct, malfeasance, or other disruptions.
In addition, hardware, components and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including "bugs", vulnerabilities and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of our networks or expose us or our products to cyber attacks.
This can be true even for “legacy” products that have been determined to have reached an end of life engineering status but will continue to operate for a limited amount of time.
When vulnerabilities are discovered, we evaluate the risk, apply patches or take other remediation actions as required and notify customers and suppliers when appropriate.
All of this requires significant time and attention from management and our employees.
As a large, well known provider of networking products, cyber attackers may specifically target our products or attempt to imitate us or our products in order to compromise a network.
Because the techniques used by attackers, many of whom are highly sophisticated and well-funded, to access or sabotage networks change frequently and generally are not recognized until after they are used, we may be unable to anticipate or immediately detect these techniques or the vulnerabilities they have caused.
The economic costs to us to eliminate or alleviate cyber or other security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software systems and security vulnerabilities could be significant and may be difficult to anticipate or measure, because the damage may differ based on the identity and motive of the attacker, which are often difficult to pinpoint.
Additionally, we could be subject to regulatory investigations, potential fines and litigation in connection with a security breach or related issue and be liable to third parties for these types of breaches.
We rely on value-added and other resellers, as well as distribution partners, to sell our products, and disruptions to, or our failure to effectively develop and manage, our distribution channel and the processes and procedures that support it could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products.
Our future success is highly dependent upon establishing and maintaining successful relationships with a variety of value-added and other reseller and distribution partners, including our worldwide strategic partners such as Ericsson, IBM, Dimension Data and NEC Corporation.
The majority of our revenues are derived through value-added resellers and distributors, most of which also sell our competitors’ products, and some of which sell their own competing products.
Our revenues depend in part on the performance of these partners.
For example, in 2016, Nokia Corporation merged with Alcatel-Lucent, a competitor of ours, and in 2015 Cisco announced a partnership with Ericsson, which is one of our existing partners.
Our competitors may in some cases be effective in leveraging their market share positions or in providing incentives to current or potential resellers and distributors to favor their products or to prevent or reduce sales of our products.
If these sales are made based on inaccurate or untimely information, the amount or timing of our revenues could be adversely impacted.
We are also vulnerable to third parties who illegally distribute or sell counterfeit, stolen or unfit versions of our products, which has happened in the past and could happen in the future.
Such sales could have a negative impact on our reputation and business.
Further, in order to develop and expand our distribution channel, we must continue to offer attractive channel programs to potential partners and scale and improve our processes and procedures that support the channel.
As a result, our programs, processes and procedures may become increasingly complex and inherently difficult to manage.
We have previously entered into OEM agreements with partners pursuant to which they rebrand and resell our products as part of their product portfolios.
These types of relationships are complex and require additional processes and procedures that may be challenging and costly to implement, maintain and manage.
Our failure to successfully manage and develop our distribution channel and the programs, processes and procedures that support it could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products.
We also depend on our global channel partners to comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
Our ability to process orders and ship products in a timely manner is dependent in part on our business systems and performance of the systems and processes of third parties such as our contract manufacturers, suppliers, data center providers or other partners, as well as the interfaces between our systems and the systems of such third parties.
If our systems, the systems and processes of those third parties, or the interfaces between them experience delays or fail, our business processes and our ability to build and ship products could be impacted, and our financial results could be harmed.
Some of our business processes depend upon our IT systems, the systems and processes of third parties, and the interfaces between the two.
For example, we are in the process of further consolidating our on-site data centers to the cloud and to off-site facilities that are hosted and controlled by third-parties.
These cloud providers and off-site facilities are vulnerable to damage, interruption or performance problems from earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, equipment failure, adverse events caused by operator error, cybersecurity attacks and similar events.
In addition, because we lease our cloud storage space and off-site data center facilities, we cannot be assured that we will be able to expand our data center infrastructure to meet user demand in a timely manner, or on favorable economic terms.
We also rely upon the performance of the systems and processes of our contract manufacturers to build and ship our products.
We have made, and may continue to make, acquisitions in order to enhance our business.
There can be no assurance that we will be able to integrate successfully any businesses, products, technologies, or personnel that we might acquire.
Telecommunications, cable and cloud service provider companies and our other large customers generally require onerous terms and conditions in our contracts with them.
Telecommunications, cable and cloud service provider companies, which comprise a significant portion of our customer base, and other large companies, generally have greater purchasing power than smaller entities and, accordingly, often request and receive more favorable terms from suppliers.
For example, our customers France Telecom-Orange and Deutsche Telekom AG have formed a company for the purpose of purchasing products from, and negotiating more favorable contractual terms with, suppliers.
Consolidation among such large customers can further increase their buying power and ability to require onerous terms.
We are subject to laws and regulations affecting the sale of our products in a number of areas.
For example, some governments have regulations prohibiting government entities from purchasing security products that do not meet country-specific safety, conformance or security certification criteria or in-country test requirements.
Other regulations that may negatively impact our business include local content or local manufacturing requirements most commonly applicable for government, state-owned enterprise or regulated industry procurements.
These types of regulations are in effect or under consideration in several jurisdictions where we do business.
The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act includes disclosure requirements applicable to public companies regarding the use of “conflict minerals” mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries, which we refer to collectively as the DRC, and procedures regarding a manufacturer's efforts to prevent the sourcing of such “conflict minerals.” These minerals are present in our products.
In addition, the European Union reached agreement in late 2016 on a EU-wide conflict minerals rule under which most EU importers of tin, tungsten, tantalum, gold and their ores will have to conduct due diligence to ensure the minerals do not originate from conflict zones and do not fund armed conflicts.
Large manufacturers also will have to disclose how they plan to monitor their sources to comply with the rules.
The regulation was adopted in 2017 with compliance required by 2021.
In addition, environmental laws and regulations relevant to electronic equipment manufacturing or operations, including laws and regulations governing the hazardous material content of our products and laws relating to the collection of and recycling of electrical and electronic equipment, may adversely impact our business and financial condition.
These laws and regulations include, among others, the European Union, or EU, Restriction on the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances Directive, or RoHS.
The EU RoHS and the similar laws of other jurisdictions limit the content of certain hazardous materials, such as lead, mercury, and cadmium, in electronic equipment, including our products.
Currently, our products comply with the EU RoHS requirements.
However, certain exemptions are scheduled to lapse or have lapsed.
The lapse of any exemption, further changes to this or other laws, or passage of similar laws in the EU or other jurisdictions, would require us to cease selling non-compliant products and to reengineer our products to use components compatible with these regulations.
In addition, in validating the compliance of our products with applicable hazardous materials restrictions, we rely substantially on affirmations by our component suppliers as to the compliance of their products with respect to those same restrictions.
Additionally, the EU and a number of other jurisdictions have adopted regulations requiring producers of electrical and electronic equipment to assume certain responsibilities for collecting, treating, recycling and disposing of products when they have reached the end of their useful life.
Finally, the EU REACH regulations regulate the handling of certain chemical substances that may be used in our products.
In addition, as a contractor and subcontractor to U.S. government departments and agencies, we are subject to federal regulations pertaining to our IT systems.
For instance, as a subcontractor to the U.S. Department of Defense, or DOD, the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement, or DFARS, required that our IT systems comply with the security and privacy controls described in National Institute of Standards and Technology Special Publication 800-171, or NIST SP 800-171 no later than December 31, 2017.
The DFARS also requires that we flow the security control requirement down to certain of our own subcontractors.
Governmental regulations and economic sanctions affecting the import or export of products generally or affecting products containing encryption capabilities could negatively affect our revenues and operating results.
The United States and various foreign governments have imposed controls and restrictions on the export of, among other things, products that contain or use encryption technology.
Most of our products contain or use encryption technology and, consequently, are subject to such controls, requirements and restrictions.
Certain governments also control importation and in-country use of encryption items and technology.
The scope, nature and severity of such controls vary widely across different countries and may change frequently over time.
For example, recently enacted legislation in the United States expands the power of the federal government to restrict the export of emerging and foundational technologies.
How the government chooses to implement this authority will affect our ability to market and sell our products overseas.
In addition, China has promulgated cybersecurity regulations affecting networking products that may impair our ability to profitably market and sell our products in China.
Certain countries’ encryption control regimes may significantly limit our ability to sell major lines of our products in those countries.
Certain governments also impose special local content, certification, testing, source code review, escrow and governmental recovery of private encryption keys, or feature requirements on network equipment for purposes of government procurements.
Similar requirements also may be imposed in procurements by state owned entities (“SOE’s”).
Our ability to sell into substantial government and SOE markets (whether or not the products we sell include encryption) is vulnerable to changes in applicable government procurement regulations, any associated local content requirements and changes in the government’s interpretation of such regulations.
In addition, the U.S. government has broader sanctions and embargoes that generally forbid supply of most items to or involving certain countries, territories, governments, legal entities and individuals, including restrictions imposed by the US and EU on exports to Russia and Ukraine.
We have implemented systems to detect and prevent sales into these countries or to prohibited entities or individuals, but there can be no assurance that they will always be effective.
In addition, governments sometimes impose additional taxes on certain imported products.
For example, the United States and Chinese governments each have imposed tariffs on certain products originating from the other country.
The United States, for example, imposed a 10% tariff on networking products from China that is scheduled to increase to 25% on January 1, 2019.
The tariff applies to certain products that we import.
Governmental regulation of encryption or IP networking technology and regulation of imports or exports, or our failure to obtain required import or export approval for our products, or related economic sanctions could harm our international and domestic sales and adversely affect our revenues and operating results.
In addition, failure to comply with such regulations could result in harm to our reputation and ability to compete in international markets, penalties, costs, seizure of assets (including source code) and restrictions on import or export privileges or adversely affect sales to government agencies or government-funded projects.
A variety of state, national, foreign, and international laws and regulations apply to the collection, use, retention, protection, disclosure, transfer, and other processing of personal data.
These privacy- and data protection-related laws and regulations are evolving, with new or modified laws and regulations proposed and implemented frequently and existing laws and regulations subject to new or different interpretations.
Compliance with these laws and regulations can be costly and can delay or impede the development and offering of new products and services.
For example, we previously relied upon adherence to the U.S. Department of Commerce’s Safe Harbor Privacy Principles and compliance with the U.S.-EU Safe Harbor Framework, which we refer to as the Safe Harbor, agreed to by the U.S. Department of Commerce and the EU.
The Safe Harbor, which established means for legitimizing the transfer of personal data by U.S. companies from the European Economic Area, or EEA, to the U.S., was invalidated in 2015 by a decision of the European Court of Justice, or the ECJ.
Now that the EU and U.S. have implemented a successor privacy framework called the Privacy Shield, we are reviewing and documenting our practices required to obtain certification under the Privacy Shield, in addition to entering into EU Model Contracts with our vendors where appropriate and feasible in anticipation of the possibility that either the Privacy Shield or EU Model Contracts may be legally challenged or voided like Safe Harbor in an uncertain political environment.
In addition, the EU General Data Protection Regulation, which went into full effect in May 2018, has resulted in substantial changes to our compliance obligations, including contractual requirements for data transfers outside the EEA, and a significant increase in potential administrative fines for non-compliance.
Similarly, the June 2016 approval by voters in the United Kingdom, or U.K., of a referendum to leave the EU could require us to make additional changes to the way we conduct our business and transmit data between the U.S., U.K., EU and the rest of the world.
Our future success depends upon our ability to recruit and retain the services of executive, engineering, sales and marketing, and support personnel.
The supply of highly qualified individuals, in particular engineers in very specialized technical areas, or sales people with specialized industry expertise, is limited and competition for such individuals is intense.
None of our officers or key employees is bound by an employment agreement for any specific term.
The loss of the services of any of our key employees, the inability to attract or retain personnel in the future or delays in hiring required personnel, engineers and sales people, and the complexity and time involved in replacing or training new employees, could delay the development and introduction of new products, and negatively impact our ability to market, sell, or support our products.
A number of our team members are foreign nationals who rely on visas and entry permits in order to legally work in the United States and other countries.
In recent years, the United States has increased the level of scrutiny in granting H-1(B), L-1 and other business visas.
Compliance with United States immigration and labor laws could require us to incur additional unexpected labor costs and expenses or could restrain our ability to retain skilled professionals.
We are required to test intangible assets with indefinite lives, including goodwill, annually or more frequently if certain circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit and intangible assets below their carrying values.
As of September 30, 2018, our goodwill was $3,094.3 million and intangible assets with indefinite lives was $49.0 million.
When the carrying value of a reporting unit’s goodwill exceeds its implied fair value of goodwill, or if the carrying amount of an intangible asset with an indefinite life exceeds its fair value, a charge to operations is recorded.
Either event would result in incremental expenses for that quarter, which would reduce any earnings or increase any loss for the period in which the impairment was determined to have occurred.
We have in the past recorded goodwill impairment charges.
During the three months ended June 30, 2017, we concluded that there were sufficient indicators to require us to perform an interim goodwill impairment analysis on our Security reporting unit.
Based on our analysis, we determined that our Security reporting unit’s goodwill was not impaired.
If the assumptions used in our analysis are not realized, it is possible that an impairment charge may need to be recorded in the future.
We cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of any impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets.
August 7, 2018, the Court withdrew its opinion to allow time for a reconstituted panel to confer.
We are monitoring this case and any impact the final opinion could have on our financial statements.
These changes include a reduction to the federal corporate income tax rate, the current taxation of certain foreign earnings, the imposition of base-erosion prevention measures which may limit the deduction of certain transfer pricing payments, and possible limitations on the deductibility of net interest expense or corporate debt obligations.
Furthermore, on October 5, 2015, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, or OECD, an international association of 35 countries including the U.S., published final proposals under its Base Erosion and Profit Shifting, or BEPS, Action Plan.
The BEPS Action Plan includes fifteen Actions to address BEPS in a comprehensive manner and represents a significant change to the international corporate tax landscape.
These proposals, as adopted by countries, may increase tax uncertainty and adversely affect our provision for income taxes.
We generally enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants, vendors, and customers, and generally limit access to and distribution of our proprietary information.
However, we cannot assure you that we have entered into such agreements with all parties who may have or have had access to our confidential information or that the agreements we have entered into will not be breached.
We cannot guarantee that any of the measures we have taken will prevent misappropriation of our technology.
Furthermore, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States.
The outcome of any actions taken in these foreign countries may be different than if such actions were determined under the laws of the United States.
In addition, the UK’s exit from the EU, commonly referred to as Brexit, has caused, and may continue to cause, uncertainty in the global markets.
Brexit, if implemented, will take some period of time to complete and could result in regulatory changes that impact our business.
For example, changes to the way service providers conduct business and transmit data between the UK and the EU could require us to make changes to the way we handle customer data.
We will also review the impact of any resulting changes to EU or UK law that could affect our operations, such as labor policies, financial planning, product manufacturing, and product distribution.
Political and regulatory responses to the vote are still developing and we are in the process of assessing the impact the vote may have on our business as more information becomes available.
Our business is also impacted by the negotiation and implementation of free trade agreements between the United States and other nations.
Such agreements can reduce barriers to international trade and thus the cost of conducting business overseas.
For instance, the United States recently reached a new trilateral trade agreement with the Governments of Canada and Mexico to replace the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA).
If the United States withdraws from NAFTA and the three countries fail to approve the new agreement, known as the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA), our cost of doing business within the three countries could increase.
Our products are highly technical and complex, are critical to the operation of many networks, and, in the case of our security products, provide and monitor network security and may protect valuable information.
Our products have contained and may contain one or more undetected errors, defects, malware, or security vulnerabilities.
These errors may arise from hardware or software we produce or procure from third parties.
Some errors in our products may only be discovered after a product has been installed and used by end-customers.
For example, in December 2015, we disclosed that we identified unauthorized code in ScreenOS that could allow a knowledgeable attacker to gain administrative access to NetScreen devices and to decrypt VPN connections.
In addition, in the event an error, defect, malware, or vulnerability is attributable to a component supplied by a third-party vendor, we may not be able to recover from the vendor all of the costs of remediation that we may incur.
In addition, we could face claims for product liability, tort, or breach of warranty or indemnification.
Defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, is costly and may divert management’s attention.
Moreover, if our products fail to satisfy our customers' quality expectations for whatever reason, the perception of and the demand for our products could be adversely affected.
Because a substantial portion of our business is conducted outside the United States, we face exposure to adverse movements in non-U.S. currency exchange rates.
We also have some transactions that are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the British Pound, Chinese Yuan, Euro, and Indian Rupee related to our sales and service operations outside of the United States.
An increase in the value of the U.S. Dollar could increase the real cost to our customers of our products in those markets outside the United States in which we sell in U.S.
A weakened U.S. Dollar could increase the cost of local operating expenses and procurement of raw materials to the extent we must purchase components in foreign currencies.
Currently, we hedge currency exposures associated with certain assets and liabilities denominated in nonfunctional currencies and periodically hedge anticipated foreign currency cash flows, with the aim of offsetting the impact of currency fluctuations on these exposures.
However, hedge activities can be costly, and hedging cannot fully offset all risks, including long-term declines or appreciation in the value of the U.S. Dollar.
Our ability to successfully offer our products and implement our business plan in a rapidly evolving market depends upon an effective planning and management process.
We will need to continue to improve our financial and managerial control and our reporting systems and procedures in order to manage our business effectively in the future.
If we fail to effectively improve our systems and processes or we fail to monitor and ensure that these systems and processes are being used correctly, our ability to manage our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be negatively affected.
Our products are designed to interface with our customers’ existing networks, each of which have different specifications and utilize multiple protocol standards and products from other vendors.
Many of our customers’ networks contain multiple generations of products that have been added over time as these networks have grown and evolved.
Our products must interoperate with many or all of the products within these networks as well as future products in order to meet our customers’ requirements.
We integrate licensed third-party technology into certain of our products.
Some of our agreements with our licensors may be terminated for convenience by them.
We are required to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and publicly disclose material weaknesses in our controls.
Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires our management to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and to disclose in our filing if such controls were unable to provide assurance that a material error would be prevented or detected in a timely manner.
We have an ongoing program to review the design of our internal controls framework in keeping with changes in business needs, implement necessary changes to our controls design and test the system and process controls necessary to comply with these requirements.
The major credit rating agencies routinely evaluate our indebtedness.
This evaluation is based on a number of factors, which include financial strength as well as transparency with rating agencies and timeliness of financial reporting.
We may be unable to generate the cash flow to satisfy our expenses, make anticipated capital expenditures or service our debt obligations, including the Notes and the Revolving Credit Facility.
As of September 30, 2018, we have $2,150 million in aggregate principal amount of senior notes outstanding, which we refer to collectively as the Notes, and had $2,138.3 million in outstanding short-term and long-term debt.
In June 2014, we entered into a Credit Agreement with certain institutional lenders that provides for a five year $500.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility, which we refer to as the Revolving Credit Facility, with an option to increase the Revolving Credit Facility by up to an additional $200.0 million.
The Credit Agreement will terminate in June 2019, at which point all amounts borrowed must be repaid.
We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to enable us to satisfy our expenses, make anticipated capital expenditures or service our indebtedness, including the Notes and the Revolving Credit Facility (if drawn upon).
Our ability to pay our expenses, satisfy our debt obligations, refinance our debt obligations and fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control.
Based upon current levels of operations, we believe cash flow from operations and available cash will be adequate for at least the next twelve months to meet our anticipated requirements for working capital, capital expenditures and scheduled payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness, including the Notes and the Revolving Credit Facility (if drawn upon).
However, if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or to borrow sufficient funds in the future to service our debt, we may be required to sell assets, reduce capital expenditures, refinance all or a portion of our existing debt (including the Notes) or obtain additional financing.
There is no assurance that we will be able to refinance our debt, sell assets or borrow more money on terms acceptable to us, or at all.
•consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all of our assets to, another person.
•maintenance of a leverage ratio no greater than 3.0x and an interest coverage ratio no less than 3.0x
•covenants that limit or restrict the ability of the Company and its subsidiaries to, among other things, grant liens, merge or consolidate, dispose of all or substantially all of its assets, change their accounting or reporting policies, change their business and incur subsidiary indebtedness, in each case subject to customary exceptions for a credit facility of this size and type.
Accordingly, these restrictions may limit our ability to successfully operate our business.
A failure to comply with these restrictions could lead to an event of default, which could result in an acceleration of the indebtedness.
Our future operating results may not be sufficient to enable compliance with these covenants to remedy any such default.
In addition, in the event of an acceleration, we may not have or be able to obtain sufficient funds to make any accelerated payments, including those under the Notes, and the Revolving Credit Facility (if drawn upon).
Beginning in 2018, the Tax Act generally limits the annual deduction for net business interest expense to an amount equal to 30% of adjusted taxable income.
A portion of the transaction consideration we received from the divestiture of our Junos Pulse product portfolio is in the form of a non-contingent seller promissory note and we may not receive the amount owed to us (including accrued interest), including in the time frame contemplated, by the buyer under the note.
In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014, we completed the sale of our Junos Pulse product portfolio to an affiliate of Siris Capital, a private equity firm, for total consideration of $230.7 million, of which $125.0 million was in the form of an 18-month non-contingent interest-bearing promissory note issued to the Company.
On October 2, 2015, we and the issuer of the promissory note agreed to modify the original terms of the note to extend the maturity date from April 1, 2016 to December 31, 2018.
On May 1, 2017, we received a principal payment in the amount of $75.0 million and outstanding interest on the note and we and the issuer agreed to further amend the terms of the note with respect to the remaining approximately $58.0 million to, among other things, extend the maturity date from December 31, 2018 to September 30, 2022, provide that interest due can be paid in kind by increasing the outstanding principal amount of the note and subordinate the note to other debt issued by senior lenders.
Since a portion of the transaction consideration is in the form of a non-contingent seller promissory note and the note is subordinated to debt issued by senior lenders, there is the risk that we may not receive the amount owed to us (including accrued interest), including in the time frame contemplated, under the note.
Our ability to pay quarterly dividends or achieve our intended capital return policy will be subject to, among other things, our financial position and results of operations, available cash and cash flow, capital and debt service requirements, use of cash for acquisitions and other factors.
Any failure to pay or increase future dividends as announced, or a reduction or discontinuation of quarterly dividends could have a material adverse effect on our stock price.
We announced that, beginning in 2017, we intend to target a capital return policy, inclusive of share repurchases and dividends, of approximately 50% of annual free cash flow.
Free cash flow is calculated as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures.
In January 2018, we announced that our Board of Directors approved a new $2.0 billion buyback authorization, which replaced our prior authorization.
In February 2018, as a part of our new buyback authorization, we entered into a $750.0 million accelerated share repurchase program, which was completed in the third quarter of 2018, and our Board of Directors declared an increase to our quarterly cash dividend to $0.18 per share, which reflects an increase of 80% compared to previous quarterly dividends.
The investment of our cash balance and our investments in government and corporate debt securities and equity securities are subject to risks, which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments.
At September 30, 2018, we had $2,501.7 million in cash and cash equivalents and $1,146.3 million in short-and long-term investments.
We have invested these amounts primarily in asset-backed securities, certificates of deposit, commercial paper, corporate debt securities, foreign government debt securities, money market funds, mutual funds, time deposits, U.S. government agency securities, and U.S. government securities.
We also have $88.6 million in other long-term assets for our investments in privately-held companies.
Certain of our investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market, sovereign debt, and interest rate risks.
Our amended and restated bylaws provide that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the sole and exclusive forum for substantially all disputes between us and our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders’ ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, or employees.
Our amended and restated bylaws provide that, unless we consent to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware (or if the Court of Chancery does not have jurisdiction, the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware) is the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf; (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of fiduciary duty owed by any of our current or former directors, officers, or other employees to us or to our stockholders; (iii) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law, our restated certificate of incorporation, or our bylaws; (iv) any action or proceeding asserting a claim as to which Delaware General Corporation Law confers jurisdiction on the Court of Chancery or (v) any action asserting a claim governed by the internal affairs doctrine.
in our bylaws may limit a stockholder’s ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our current or former directors, officers, or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our current or former directors, officers, and other employees.
Uninsured losses could harm our operating results.
We also maintain a program of insurance coverage for various types of property, casualty, and other risks.
We place our insurance coverage with various carriers in numerous jurisdictions.
The types and amounts of insurance that we obtain vary from time to time and from location to location, depending on availability, cost, and our decisions with respect to risk retention.
The policies are subject to deductibles, policy limits, and exclusions that result in our retention of a level of risk on a self-insurance basis.
In addition, our insurance coverage may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses or failures that may occur.
