Juniper designs, develops, and sells products and services for high-performance networks to enable customers to build scalable, reliable, secure and cost-effective networks for their businesses, while achieving agility, efficiency and value through automation. 
Further, our intent is to lead in the area of software solutions that simplify the operation of networks, and to allow our customers across our key verticals to deliver further value through their networks. We anticipate that our increased focus on software business models will result in an increase in software revenues as a percentage of total revenues over time. 
We are focused on and continue to see significant opportunities from the implementation of cloud architectures, such as large public and private data centers, as well as distributed cloud infrastructure, which resides in multiple, distributed data centers in order to place applications or services closer to end users, such as enabling security and "network-as-a-service."
We believe the network needs for our customers in our Service Provider, Cloud and Enterprise verticals are converging, as these customers recognize the need for high performance networks and leveraging the cloud for improved agility and greater levels of operating efficiency. 
As these customers continue to grow, we believe their network architectures will continue to evolve. We believe our understanding of high performance networking technology and our strategy position us to capitalize on the industry transition to more automated, cost-efficient, scalable networks.
In routing, we believe that certain large Cloud customers are transitioning their wide area networks from a scale-up to a scale-out architecture as they continue to add capacity. This has resulted in, and we expect this may continue to result in, a transition of these customers from purchasing our MX product family to our PTX product family. These architectural shifts have led to a near-term slowdown in our net revenues as in some cases there is a pause before the new architecture ramps.
In switching, we see that certain large Cloud customers who can rapidly scale based on increased demand, are in the process of adopting 100-Gigabit connections, or 100G, resulting in certain large deployment delays at our largest Cloud customers as they prepare for this adoption. 
Despite these ongoing deployment delays and architectural shifts, we remain confident in our competitive position and strong relationships with these strategic customers. Our overall strategy with our Cloud customers has not changed and we continue to execute against our innovation roadmap, which includes our plan to continue to grow our relevance and our business in the Cloud vertical. 
During the second quarter of 2018, we continued to execute on our product strategy, specifically around the Cloud. We also simplified threat response for our customers with enhancements to our Unified Cybersecurity Platform that includes integrations between SRX Series Next-Generation Firewalls, the Advanced Threat Prevention (ATP) Appliance, and Juniper ATP Appliance integrations with Junos Space Security Director Policy Enforcer.
For the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, the adoption of Topic 606 resulted in a decrease in revenue recognition of $16.8 million and $14.9 million, respectively, due to lower service revenue, partly offset by product revenue. Product revenues during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 were higher by $29.2 million and $57.9 million, respectively, under Topic 606, compared to Topic 605, primarily due to the impact of revenue allocation between products and services, timing of revenue recognition from sales to distributors and variable consideration. The product revenue increase from Topic 606 was allocated among all product categories. Service revenues during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 were lower by $46.0 million and $72.8 million, respectively, under Topic 606, compared to Topic 605, primarily due to the impact of revenue allocation between products and services, and due to certain contractual clauses. The adoption of Topic 606 will impact the allocation of revenues between product and service; however, we continue to expect there will not be a material difference in total annual revenue. See Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part 1 of this report, for further discussion on the adoption of Topic 606.
Changes in judgments with respect to these assumptions and estimates could impact the timing or amount of revenue recognition.
Product net revenues decreased during the three months ended June 30, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, due to a decrease in revenues from routing and switching products, partially offset by the impact of the adoption of Topic 606 and growth in security. 
The year-over-year decrease in routing revenues was primarily driven by Cloud, due to the ongoing architectural shifts in the Americas, partially offset by the impact of adoption of Topic 606. Revenues from our MX series of products declined year-over-year, which was partially offset by growth in revenues from our PTX series of products. 
Security net revenues increased year-over-year, primarily driven by the impact of Topic 606, Enterprise, and Cloud, partially offset by Service Provider. We expect that our security business will see year-over-year growth for the full year 2018.
Service net revenues decreased during the three months ended June 30, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, due to the impact of Topic 606. Excluding the impact of Topic 606, our service net revenues increased year-over-year, primarily due to strong renewal and attach rates of support contracts, and professional services. As a result of Topic 606, we expect that our service net revenues will see a decrease for the full year 2018 compared to 2017.
Product net revenues decreased during the six months ended June 30, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, primarily due to Cloud and Service Provider, impacting routing and switching in the Americas. The decrease in product revenues was partially offset by the impact of Topic 606 and growth in security.
The decrease in routing and switching revenues in the Americas was partially offset by higher revenues in EMEA, as well as strong growth in Enterprise. Security revenues increased during the six months ended June 30, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, driven by all verticals.
Service net revenues decreased during the six months ended June 30, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, due to the impact of Topic 606. Excluding the impact of Topic 606, our service net revenues increased year-over-year, which was driven primarily by strong renewal and attach rates of support contracts, and professional services.
Product gross margin as a percentage of product revenues decreased during the three months ended June 30, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, primarily due to customer mix, product mix, and lower revenues. This was partially offset by improvements in our cost structure. 
Service gross margin as a percentage of service net revenues decreased during the three months ended June 30, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, primarily due to lower revenues from the impact of Topic 606 and higher service delivery costs.
Product gross margin as a percentage of product revenues decreased during the six months ended June 30, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, primarily due to lower revenues, customer mix, product mix, and higher costs of certain memory components. This was partially offset by improvements in our cost structure.
Service gross margin as a percentage of service net revenues decreased during the six months ended June 30, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, primarily due to lower service revenues from the impact of Topic 606 and higher service delivery costs.
During the three months ended June 30, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, total operating expenses decreased primarily due the lack of restructuring charges incurred during the second quarter of 2018, compared to the restructuring initiatives implemented under the 2017 Restructuring Plan during the same quarter last year. The decrease was offset by higher share-based compensation expense from certain performance share awards. Excluding the impact of share-based compensation and restructuring, total operating expenses decreased primarily due to a decline in personnel-related expenses, resulting from lower headcount driven by our 2017 Restructuring Plan. 
During the six months ended June 30, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, total operating expenses decreased primarily due to the lack of restructuring charges incurred during the first half of 2018, compared to restructuring initiatives implemented under the 2017 Restructuring Plan during the same period last year. The decrease was offset by higher share-based compensation expense from certain performance share awards. Excluding the impact of share-based compensation and restructuring, total operating expenses decreased primarily due to a decline in personnel-related expenses, marketing expenses, and engineering expenses. Personnel-related expenses decreased primarily due to lower headcount driven by the 2017 Restructuring Plan. 
Total other expense, net decreased during the three months ended June 30, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, primarily due to an increase in interest income related to our fixed income investment portfolio, as a result of higher yields. 
Total other expense, net decreased during the six months ended June 30, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, primarily due to an increase in interest income related to our fixed income investment portfolio, as a result of higher yields, partially offset by a decline in the total amount invested. 
The Tax Act also includes provisions to tax Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income (“GILTI”) of foreign subsidiaries in excess of a deemed return on their tangible assets. Due to the complexities of the new provisions, we are continuing to evaluate how the provisions will be accounted for under U.S. GAAP. Pursuant to the Tax Act, corporations are allowed to make an accounting policy election of either (i) account for GILTI as a component of income tax expense in the period in which the corporation is subject to the rules (the “period cost method”), or (ii) account for GILTI in the corporation's measurement of deferred taxes (the “deferred method”). We have not currently elected a method and will do so after completing our analysis of the GILTI provisions of the Tax Act, depending on the analysis of our global income. Therefore, we have not recorded any potential deferred tax effects related to the GILTI in our financial statements and have no policy election regarding whether to record deferred taxes on GILTI or use the period cost method. We have, however, included an estimate of the current GILTI impact in our annual effective tax rate for 2018. We expect to complete the accounting during the measurement period.
of eight annual transition tax payments related to the Tax Act. These decreases in cash flows were offset by a decline in cash paid for personnel-related costs, principally as a result of a reduction in headcount and lower incentive compensation.
Net cash provided by investing activities increased during the six months ended June 30, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017. The increase was primarily due to the liquidation of repatriated offshore investments to fund the accelerated share repurchase program discussed below.
In January 2018, our Board of Directors, which we refer to as the Board, approved a $2.0 billion share repurchase program, which we refer to as the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program. The 2018 Stock Repurchase Program replaces the previous authorization approved by the Board in 2014. 
As part of the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program, during the quarter ended March 31, 2018, we entered into the ASR with two financial institutions to repurchase $750.0 million of our common stock. During the first quarter of 2018, we made an up-front payment of $750.0 million pursuant to the ASR and received and retired an initial 23.3 million shares of our common stock for an aggregate price of $600.0 million, based on the market value of our common stock on the date of the transaction.
During the third quarter of 2018, the ASR was completed and we received an additional 6.0 million shares from the financial institutions. These 6.0 million shares will be retired in the third quarter of 2018. The completion of the ASR resulted in a total settlement of 29.3 million shares of our common stock at a volume weighted average repurchase price, less an agreed upon discount, of $25.62 per share. 
Future share repurchases under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program will be subject to a review of the circumstances at that time and will be made from time to time in private transactions or open market purchases as permitted by securities laws and other legal requirements. Our 2018 Stock Repurchase Program may be discontinued at any time. 
During the six months ended June 30, 2018, we declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.18 per share of common stock on January 30, 2018 and May 2, 2018, which was paid on March 22, 2018 and June 22, 2018, respectively, to stockholders of record on March 1, 2018 and June 1, 2018 in the aggregate amount of $124.9 million. Any future dividends, and the establishment of record and payment dates, are subject to approval by the Board or an authorized committee thereof. See Note 14, Subsequent Events, for discussion of our dividend declaration subsequent to June 30, 2018. 
We have an unsecured revolving credit facility that will expire in 2019, which enables borrowings of up to $500.0 million, with the option, subject to the lenders' approval, to increase the amount of the credit facility by up to an additional $200.0 million. As of June 30, 2018, we were in compliance with all covenants and there were no amounts outstanding under our credit facility.
Based on past performance and current expectations, we believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, short-term, and long-term investments, together with cash generated from operations and access to capital markets and the revolving credit facility will be sufficient to fund our operations, planned stock repurchases and dividends, capital expenditures, commitments, and other liquidity requirements and anticipated growth for at least the next twelve months. However, our future liquidity and capital requirements may vary materially from those now planned depending on many factors, including, but not limited to, our growth rate, the timing and amount we spend to support development efforts, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, the introduction of new and enhanced products and services, the costs to acquire or invest in businesses and technologies, an increase in manufacturing or component costs, and the risks and uncertainties detailed in the “Risk Factors” section of Item 1A of Part II of this Report.
Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
There were no repurchases during the three months ended June 30, 2018. As of June 30, 2018, there were $1.4 billion of authorized funds remaining under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program.
As part of the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program, we entered into the ASR in February 2018 with two financial institutions to repurchase $750.0 million of our common stock. During the three months ended March 31, 2018, we made an up-front payment of $750.0 million pursuant to the ASR and received and retired an initial 23.3 million shares of our common stock for an aggregate price of $600.0 million based on the market value of our common stock on the date of the transaction. The remaining $150.0 million was recorded as a forward contract indexed to the price of our common stock. During the third quarter of 2018, the ASR was completed and we received an additional 6.0 million shares from the financial institutions. These 6.0 million shares will be retired in the third quarter of 2018. The completion of the ASR resulted in a total settlement of 29.3 million shares of our common stock at a volume weighted average repurchase price, less an agreed upon discount, of $25.62 per share. For further explanation of our ASR, see Note 8, Equity, in Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this Report. 
