fls.txt



item1.txt
Science Applications International Corporation (collectively, with its consolidated subsidiaries, the “Company”) is a leading provider of technical, engineering and enterprise information technology (IT) services primarily to the U.S. government.
Each of the Company’s three customer facing operating segments is focused on providing the Company’s comprehensive technical and enterprise IT service offerings to one or more agencies of the U.S federal government.
$1 million and $3 million of restructuring costs for employee severance were included in cost of revenues in the condensed and consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income for the three and nine months ended November 3, 2017, respectively.
Contract assets and liabilities are recorded net on a contract-by-contract basis and generally are classified as current, based on our contract operating cycle.
The Company’s fixed interest rate swaps are considered over-the-counter derivatives, and fair value is calculated using a standard pricing model for interest rate swaps with contractual terms for maturities, amortization and interest rates.
The fair value is an estimate of the amount that the Company would pay or receive as of a measurement date if the agreements were transferred to a third party or canceled.
The Company recognized a $25 million provision for inventory within cost of revenues during the three and nine months ended November 2, 2018 related to firm purchase commitments on a firm-fixed price program.
This ASU is based on the principle that revenue is recognized to depict the transfer of goods or services to customers at an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
Under this method, the Company recognized the cumulative effect of adoption as an adjustment to its opening balance of retained earnings on February 3, 2018.
In determining the cumulative impact of the adoption the Company applied the provisions of ASC 606 only to contracts that had not yet been completed at the date of adoption.
Under the new standard, the Company continues to recognize revenue over time as services are rendered to fulfill its contractual obligations; however, the Company generally accounts for customer option period exercises (renewals) and service contract modifications prospectively, instead of as a cumulative adjustment to revenue under a single unit of accounting.
Also, under the new standard, award and incentive-based fees generally are recognized during the discrete periods of performance to which they relate as opposed to on a cumulative basis over the contract period.
The Company no longer defers the recognition of revenues and costs associated with significant upfront material acquisitions on programs previously accounted for using the efforts-expended method of percentage of completion.
Under the new standard, the Company recognizes revenue on an adjusted cost-to-cost basis, where the amount of revenue that is recognized is equal to the amount of costs incurred plus profit based on the adjusted cost input measure of progress.
These impacts were primarily attributable to the change in accounting for programs previously accounted for using the efforts-expended method of percentage of completion.
Under the new guidance, a lessee will be required to recognize lease assets and lease liabilities for all leases with lease terms in excess of twelve months.


item2.txt
We use the terms "SAIC," the “Company,” “we,” “us” and “our” to refer to Science Applications International Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries.
Our long history of serving the U.S. government has afforded us the ability to develop strong and longstanding relationships with some of the largest customers in the markets we serve.
The transaction is subject to customary closing conditions, including approval of both the Science Applications International Corporation and Engility stockholders, and is expected to close in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2019.
Some changes that could have an adverse impact on our business include the implementation of future spending reductions (including sequestration), government shutdowns and issues related to required increases to the nation’s debt ceiling (under current law, the debt ceiling will be reached in March 2019).
The U.S. government has increasingly relied on contracts that are subject to a competitive bidding process (including indefinite delivery, indefinite quantity (IDIQ), U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) schedules and other multi-award contracts) which has resulted in greater competition and increased pricing pressure.
We expect that a majority of the business that we seek in the foreseeable future will be awarded through a competitive bidding process.
Refer to "Results of Operations" below, and "Restructuring" in Note 1 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for further details.
For performance obligations satisfied over time, updates to estimates are recognized on inception-to-date activity, during the period of adjustment, resulting in either a favorable or unfavorable impact to operating income.
We also analyze our cost mix (labor, subcontractor or materials) in order to understand operating margin because programs with a higher proportion of SAIC labor are generally more profitable.
Revenues increased $32 million or 2.8% for the three months ended November 2, 2018 as compared to the same period in the prior year due to newly awarded contracts ($54 million), which includes information technology (IT) integration contracts supporting state and local customers, and increased orders in our supply chain portfolio ($24 million).


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
We have provided information about legal proceedings in which we are involved in our fiscal 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and we have provided an update to this information in Note 10 of the notes to the condensed and consolidated financial statements contained within this report.
In addition to the described legal proceedings, we are routinely subject to investigations and reviews relating to compliance with various laws and regulations.


