Item 4.
Controls and Procedures
Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures
An evaluation was carried out under the supervision and with the participation of FICO’s management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of FICO’s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”)) as of the end of the period covered by this quarterly report.
Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that FICO’s disclosure controls and procedures are effective to ensure that information required to be disclosed by FICO in reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is (i) recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in SEC rules and forms and (ii) accumulated and communicated to the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting
Beginning on October 1, 2018, we implemented ASU 2014-09 and, as a result, we also implemented changes to our controls related to revenue.
These included the development of new policies, enhanced contract review processes, and other ongoing monitoring activities.
These controls were designed to provide assurance at a reasonable level of the fair presentation of our condensed consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
There was no other change in FICO’s internal control over financial reporting was identified in connection with the evaluation required by Rule 13a-15(d) of the Exchange Act that occurred during the period covered by this quarterly report and that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
Item 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures
Not applicable.
Item 5.
Other Information
Not applicable.
Item 6.
Exhibits
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
