Item 1.
Financial Statements
FAIR ISAAC CORPORATION
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
See accompanying notes.
FAIR ISAAC CORPORATION
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
See accompanying notes.
FAIR ISAAC CORPORATION
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
See accompanying notes.
FAIR ISAAC CORPORATION
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
See accompanying notes.
FAIR ISAAC CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1.
Nature of Business
Fair Isaac Corporation
Incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware, Fair Isaac Corporation (“FICO”) is a provider of analytic, software and data management products and services that enable businesses to automate, improve and connect decisions.
FICO provides a range of analytical solutions, credit scoring and credit account management products and services to banks, credit reporting agencies, credit card processing agencies, insurers, retailers, telecommunications providers, pharmaceutical companies, healthcare organizations, public agencies and organizations in other industries.
In these condensed consolidated financial statements, Fair Isaac Corporation is referred to as “FICO,” “we,” “us,” “our,” or “the Company.”
Principles of Consolidation and Basis of Presentation
We have prepared the accompanying unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements in accordance with the instructions to Form 10-Q and the applicable accounting guidance.
Consequently, we have not necessarily included all information and footnotes required for audited financial statements.
In our opinion, the accompanying unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements reflect all adjustments (consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, except as otherwise indicated) necessary for a fair presentation of our financial position and results of operations.
These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto presented in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2018.
The interim financial information contained in this report is not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for any other interim period or for the entire fiscal year.
Effective October 1, 2018, we adopted Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No.
2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)” (“ASU 2014-09”) using the full retrospective method.
In connection with this adoption, the results and related disclosures for the comparative fiscal 2018 periods presented in this Form 10-Q were adjusted to be presented as if ASU 2014‑09 had been in effect during such fiscal 2018 periods.
See New Accounting Pronouncements below and Note 8.
All amounts and disclosures set forth in this Form 10-Q reflect these changes.
The condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of FICO and its subsidiaries.
All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated.
Use of Estimates
We make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and the disclosures made in the accompanying notes.
For example, we use estimates in determining the collectability of accounts receivable; the appropriate levels of various accruals; labor hours in connection with fixed-fee service contracts; the amount of our tax provision and the realizability of deferred tax assets.
We also use estimates in determining the remaining economic lives and carrying values of acquired intangible assets, property and equipment, and other long-lived assets.
In addition, we use assumptions to estimate the fair value of reporting units and share-based compensation.
Actual results may differ from our estimates.
Revenue Recognition
Revenue is recognized when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to our customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration to which we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services.
See Note 8 for further discussion on revenues.
New Accounting Pronouncements
Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements
We adopted ASU 2014-09 in the first quarter of our fiscal 2019 using the full retrospective method which required us to adjust each prior reporting period presented.
This adoption primarily affected timing of revenue recognition of license revenue on term licenses and transactional revenue on guaranteed minimum fees related to our on-premises software products.
Under the new standard, we recognize revenue when control of the license is transferred to the customer, rather than at the date payments become due and payable when there are extended payment terms, or ratably over the term of the contract as required under the previous standard.
In addition, revenue attributable to a software license renewal is recognized at the beginning of the applicable renewal period rather than at the signing of the renewal agreement as required under the previous standard.
Additionally, under the new standard, when we enter into noncancellable contracts that provide unconditional rights to payment from our customers for services we have not yet completed or services we will provide in the near future, we present receivables — our unconditional rights to payments — and deferred revenues on a gross basis, rather than on a net basis.
Finally, under the new standard we capitalize and amortize contract acquisition costs such as commissions paid for SaaS cloud services contracts in excess of one year.
Following the adoption of ASU 2014-09, the revenue recognition for our other sales arrangements remained materially consistent with our historical practice.
Upon adoption of ASU 2014-09, we applied the standard’s practical expedients that permit the omission of prior-period information about our performance obligations.
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income
Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
Recent Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted
2.
Fair Value Measurements
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received from the sale of an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date.
The accounting guidance establishes a three-level hierarchy for disclosure that is based on the extent and level of judgment used to estimate the fair value of assets and liabilities.
•Level 1 - uses unadjusted quoted prices that are available in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Our Level 1 assets are comprised of money market funds and certain equity securities.
For the fair value of our derivative instruments and senior notes, see Note 3 and Note 7, respectively.
3.
Derivative Financial Instruments
We use derivative instruments to manage risks caused by fluctuations in foreign exchange rates.
The primary objective of our derivative instruments is to protect the value of foreign-currency-denominated receivable and cash balances from the effects of volatility in foreign exchange rates that might occur prior to conversion to their respective functional currencies.
We principally utilize foreign currency forward contracts, which enable us to buy and sell foreign currencies in the future at fixed exchange rates and economically offset changes in foreign exchange rates.
We routinely enter into contracts to offset exposures denominated in the British pound, Euro, and Singapore dollar.
Foreign-currency-denominated receivable and cash balances are remeasured at foreign exchange rates in effect on the balance sheet date with the effects of changes in foreign exchange rates reported in other income, net.
The forward contracts are not designated as hedges and are marked to market through other income, net.
Fair value changes in the forward contracts help mitigate the changes in the value of the remeasured receivable and cash balances attributable to changes in foreign exchange rates.
The forward contracts are short-term in nature and typically have average maturities at inception of less than three months.
The foreign currency forward contracts were entered into on December 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018, respectively; therefore, their fair value was $0 on each of these dates.
4.
Goodwill and Intangible Assets
Cost of revenues reflects our amortization of completed technology and selling, general and administrative expenses reflects our amortization of other intangible assets.
Intangible assets, gross were $110.2 million and $111.0 million as of December 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018, respectively.
5.
Composition of Certain Financial Statement Captions
6.
Revolving Line of Credit
We have a $400 million unsecured revolving line of credit with a syndicate of banks that expires on May 8, 2023 with an option to increase it by another $100 million.
Proceeds from the credit facility can be used for working capital and general corporate purposes and may also be used for the refinancing of existing debt, acquisitions and the repurchase of our common stock.
Interest on amounts borrowed under the credit facility is based on (i) a base rate, which is the greater of (a) the prime rate, (b) the Federal Funds rate plus 0.500% and (c) the one-month LIBOR rate plus 1.000%, plus, in each case, an applicable margin, or (ii) an adjusted LIBOR rate plus an applicable margin.
The applicable margin for base rate borrowings ranges from 0% to 0.875% and for LIBOR borrowings ranges from 1.000% to 1.875%, and is determined based on our consolidated leverage ratio.
In addition, we must pay credit facility fees.
The credit facility contains certain restrictive covenants including maintaining a maximum consolidated leverage ratio of 3.25, subject to a step up to 3.75 following certain permitted acquisitions; and a minimum fixed charge ratio of 2.50 through the maturity of our 2010 Senior Notes in July 2020, upon which maintaining a minimum interest coverage ratio of 3.00.
The credit agreement also contains other covenants typical of unsecured facilities.
As of December 31, 2018, we had $325.0 million in borrowings outstanding at a weighted average interest rate of 3.839%, of which $125.0 million was classified as a long-term liability and recorded in long-term debt within the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheets.
We were in compliance with all financial covenants under this credit facility as of December 31, 2018.
On July 14, 2010, we issued $245 million of senior notes in a private placement to a group of institutional investors (the “2010 Senior Notes”).
The 2010 Senior Notes were issued in four series with maturities ranging from 6 to 10 years.
The outstanding 2010 Senior Notes’ weighted average interest rate is 5.6% and the weighted average maturity is 9.8 years.
The 2010 Senior Notes require interest payments semi-annually and contain certain restrictive covenants, including the maintenance of a maximum consolidated net debt to consolidated EBITDA ratio of 3.00 and a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio of 2.50.
As of December 31, 2018, we were in compliance with all financial covenants.
On May 8, 2018, we issued $400 million of senior notes in a private offering to qualified institutional investors (the “2018 Senior Notes”, and with the 2010 Senior Notes, the “Senior Notes”).
The 2018 Senior Notes require interest payments semi-annually at a rate of 5.25% per annum and will mature on May 15, 2026.
The purchase agreements for the 2010 Senior Notes and the indenture for the 2018 Senior Notes contain certain covenants typical of unsecured obligations.
We measure the fair value of the Senior Notes based on Level 2 inputs, which include quoted market prices and interest rate spreads of similar securities.
8.
Revenue from Contracts with Customers
Contracts with Customers
Our revenue is primarily derived from term-based or perpetual licensing of software and scoring products and solutions, and associated maintenance; SaaS subscription services; scoring and credit monitoring services for consumers; and professional services.
For contracts with customers that contain various combinations of products and services, we evaluate whether the products or services are distinct — distinct products or services will be accounted for as separate performance obligations, while non-distinct products or services are combined with others to form a single performance obligation.
For contracts with multiple performance obligations, the transaction price is allocated to each performance obligation on a relative standalone selling price (“SSP”) basis.
Revenue is recognized when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to our customers.
License revenue is derived from contracts in which we grant our direct customers or distributors the right to deploy or resell our software and scoring products and solutions on-premises.
Our software offerings often include a perpetual or term-based license and post-contract support or maintenance, both of which generally represent distinct performance obligations and are accounted for separately.
The transaction price is either in the form of a fixed consideration with separate stated prices for license and maintenance, or a sales or usage-based royalty — sometimes subject to a guaranteed minimum — for the license and maintenance bundle.
When the amount is in the form of a fixed consideration, including the guaranteed minimum in sales or usage-based royalty, license revenue from distinct on-premises license is recognized at the point in time when the software or scoring solution is made available to the customer or distributor.
Any royalties not subject to the guaranteed minimum or earned in excess of the minimum amount are recognized as transactional revenue when the subsequent sales or usage occurs.
Revenue allocated to maintenance is generally recognized ratably over the contract period as customers simultaneously consume and receive benefits.
In addition to sales or usage-based royalty on our software and scoring products, transactional revenue is also derived from SaaS contracts in which we provide customers with access to and standard support for our software application either in the FICO® Analytic Cloud or Amazon Web Services (“AWS”), our primary cloud infrastructure provider, on a subscription basis.
The transaction price typically includes a fixed consideration in the form of a guaranteed minimum that allows up to a certain level of usage and a variable consideration in the form of usage or transaction-based fees in excess of the minimum threshold; or usage or transaction-based variable amount not subject to a minimum threshold.
We determined the nature of our SaaS arrangements is to provide continuous access to our hosted application in the cloud, i.e., a stand-ready obligation that comprises a series of distinct service periods (e.g., a series of distinct daily, monthly or annual periods of service).
We estimate the total variable consideration at contract inception — subject to any constraints that may apply — and update the estimates as new information becomes available and recognize the amount ratably over the SaaS service period, unless we determine it is appropriate to allocate the variable amount to each distinct service period and recognize revenue as each distinct service period is performed.
We also derive transactional revenue from credit scoring and monitoring services that provide consumers access to their credit reports and enable them to monitor their credit.
These are provided as either a one-time or ongoing subscription service renewed monthly or annually, all with a fixed consideration.
We determined the nature of the subscription service is a stand-ready obligation to generate credit reports, provide credit monitoring and other services for our customers, which comprises a series of distinct service periods (e.g., a series of distinct daily, monthly or annual periods of service).
Revenue from one-time or monthly subscription services is recognized during the period when service is performed.
Revenue from annual subscription services is recognized ratably over the subscription period.
Professional services include software or SaaS implementation, consulting, model development, training services and premium cloud support.
They are sold either standalone, or together with other products or services and generally represent distinct performance obligations.
The transaction price can be a fixed amount or on a time and materials basis.
Revenue on fixed-price services is recognized using an input method based on labor hours expended which we believe provides a faithful depiction of the transfer of services.
Revenue on services provided on a time and materials basis is recognized applying the “right-to-invoice” practical expedient as the amount to which we have a right to invoice the customer corresponds directly with the value of our performance to the customer.
In addition, we sell premium cloud support on a subscription basis for a fixed amount, and revenue is recognized ratably over the contract term.
Disaggregation of Revenue
Contract Balances
We record a receivable when we satisfy a performance obligation prior to invoicing if only the passage of time is required before payment is due or if we have an unconditional right to consideration before we satisfy a performance obligation.
We record a contract asset when we satisfy a performance obligation prior to invoicing but our right to consideration is conditional.
We record deferred revenue when the payment is made or due before we satisfy a performance obligation.
The following table provides information about receivables and deferred revenue from contracts with customers.
Impairment loss recognized on receivables from contracts with customers during the quarter ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 was immaterial.
Contract assets balance at December 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018 was immaterial.
Revenue recognized in the quarter ended December 31, 2018 from performance obligations satisfied in previous periods was immaterial.
Payment terms and conditions vary by contract type, although terms generally include a requirement of payment within 30 to 60 days.
In instances where the timing of revenue recognition differs from the timing of invoicing, we have determined our contracts generally do not include a significant financing component.
The primary purpose of our invoicing terms is to provide customers with simplified and predictable ways of purchasing our products and services, not to provide customers with financing or to receive financing from our customers.
Examples include multi-year on-premises licenses that are invoiced annually with revenue recognized upfront, and invoicing at the beginning of a subscription term with revenue recognized ratably over the contract period.
Performance Obligations
We apply the optional exemption that permits the omission of information about remaining performance obligations that have original expected durations of one year or less.
We also applied the transition practical expedient that permits the omission of prior-period information about our performance obligations.
Significant Judgments
Our contracts with customers often include promises to transfer multiple products and services to a customer.
Determining whether products and services are considered distinct and should be accounted for separately may require significant judgment.
Specifically, when implementation service is included in the original software or SaaS offerings, judgment is required to determine if the implementation service significantly modifies or customizes the software or SaaS service in such a way that the risks of providing it and the customization service are inseparable.
In rare instances, contracts may include significant modification or customization of the software of SaaS service and will result in the combination of software or SaaS service and implementation service as one performance obligation.
We determine the SSPs using data from our historical standalone sales, or, in instances where such information is not available (such as when we do not sell the product or service separately), we consider factors such as the stated contract prices, our overall pricing practices and objectives, go-to-market strategy, size and type of the transactions, and effects of the geographic area on pricing, among others.
When the selling price of a product or service is highly variable, we may use the residual approach to determine the SSP of that product or service.
Significant judgment may be required to determine the SSP for each distinct performance obligation when it involves the consideration of many market conditions and entity-specific factors discussed above.
Significant judgement may be required to determine the timing of satisfaction of a performance obligation in certain professional services contracts with a fixed consideration, in which we measure progress using an input method based on labor hours expended.
In order to estimate the total hours of the project, we make assumptions about labor utilization, efficiency of processes, the customer’s specification and IT environment, among others.
For certain complex projects, due to the risks and uncertainties inherent with the estimation process and factors relating to the assumptions, actual progress may differ due to the change in estimated total hours.
Adjustments to estimates are made in the period in which the facts requiring such revisions become known and, accordingly, recognized revenues are subject to revisions as the contract progresses to completion.
Capitalized Commission Costs
We capitalize incremental commission fees paid as a result of obtaining customer contracts.
Capitalized commission costs, which are recorded in other assets within the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheets, were $28.5 million and $27.1 million at December 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018, respectively.
Capitalized commission costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over ten years — determined using a portfolio approach — based on the transfer of goods or services to which the assets relate, taking into consideration both the initial and future contracts as we do not typically pay a commission on a contract renewal.
The amortization costs are included in selling, general, and administrative expenses of our condensed consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income.
The amount of amortization was $1.2 million and $1.1 million during the quarters ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and there was no impairment loss in relation to the costs capitalized.
We apply a practical expedient to recognize the incremental costs of obtaining contracts as an expense when incurred if the amortization period of the assets that we otherwise would have recognized is one year or less.
These costs are recorded within selling, general, and administrative expenses.
Effective Tax Rate
The effective income tax rate was (7.7)% and (6.5)% during the quarters ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The provision for income taxes during interim quarterly reporting periods is based on our estimates of the effective tax rates for the full fiscal year.
The effective tax rate in any quarter can also be affected positively or negatively by adjustments that are required to be reported in the specific quarter of resolution.
The SEC staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
118 (“SAB 118”) in December 2017, which provides a measurement period that should not extend beyond one year from the Tax Act enactment date for companies to complete the accounting under FASB Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 740, “Accounting for Income Taxes” (“ASC 740”).
Information regarding our adoption and prospective impacts of the Tax Act is included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended September 30, 2018.
We have completed our analysis consistent with the guidance provided in SAB 118 related to the tax effects of the transition tax and the excessive employee remuneration, which resulted in no additional charges recorded during the quarter ended December 31, 2018.
The Tax Act subjects U.S. corporations to tax on their GILTI.
Due to the complexity of the new GILTI tax rules, we are continuing to evaluate this provision of the Tax Act and the application of GAAP.
Under GAAP, we can make an accounting policy election to either treat taxes due on the GILTI inclusion as a current period expense or factor such amounts into our measurement of deferred taxes.
We have not yet adopted an accounting policy in regard to GILTI.
The total unrecognized tax benefit for uncertain tax positions is estimated to be $6.5 million and $6.1 million at December 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018, respectively.
We recognize interest expense related to unrecognized tax benefits and penalties as part of the provision for income taxes in our condensed consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income.
We have accrued interest of $0.4 million and $0.3 million related to unrecognized tax benefits as of December 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018, respectively.
We maintain the 2012 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the “2012 Plan”) under which we grant equity awards, including stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock awards, stock unit awards and other stock-based awards.
All employees, consultants and advisors of FICO or any subsidiary, as well as all non-employee directors are eligible to receive awards under the 2012 Plan.
We also have awards currently outstanding under the 1992 Long-term Incentive Plan, which was adopted in February 1992 and expired in February 2012.
Stock option awards have a maximum term of seven years.
In general, stock option awards and restricted stock unit awards not subject to market or performance conditions vest annually over four years.
Restricted stock unit awards subject to market or performance conditions vest annually over three years based on the achievement of specified criteria.
Stock Options
Restricted Stock Units
Performance Share Units
Market Share Units
11.
Earnings per Share
We exclude the options to purchase shares of common stock in the computation of the diluted EPS where the exercise price of the options exceeds the average market price of our common stock as their inclusion would be antidilutive.
There were no options excluded for the quarter ended December 31, 2018.
There were approximately 3,000 options excluded for the quarter ended December 31, 2017.
We are organized into the following three operating segments, each of which is a reportable segment, to align with internal management of our worldwide business operations based on product offerings.
•Applications.
This segment includes pre-configured decision management applications designed for a specific type of business problem or process — such as marketing, account origination, customer management, fraud detection, collections and insurance claims management — as well as associated professional services.
These applications are available to our customers as on-premises software, and many are available as hosted, software-as-a-service (“SaaS”) applications through the FICO® Analytic Cloud.
Our Chief Executive Officer evaluates segment financial performance based on segment revenues and segment operating income.
Segment operating expenses consist of direct and indirect costs principally related to personnel, facilities, consulting, travel and depreciation.
Indirect costs are allocated to the segments generally based on relative segment revenues, fixed rates established by management based upon estimated expense contribution levels and other assumptions that management considers reasonable.
We do not allocate broad-based incentive expense, share-based compensation expense, restructuring expense, amortization expense, various corporate charges and certain other income and expense measures to our segments.
These income and expense items are not allocated because they are not considered in evaluating the segment’s operating performance.
Our Chief Executive Officer does not evaluate the financial performance of each segment based on its respective assets, nor capital expenditures where depreciation amounts are allocated to the segments from their internal cost centers as described above.
We are in disputes with certain customers regarding amounts owed in connection with the sale of certain of our products and services.
We also have had claims asserted by former employees relating to compensation and other employment matters.
We are also involved in various other claims and legal actions arising in the ordinary course of business.
We record litigation accruals for legal matters which are both probable and estimable.
For legal proceedings for which there is a reasonable possibility of loss (meaning those losses for which the likelihood is more than remote but less than probable), we have determined we do not have material exposure on an aggregate basis.
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings
Not Applicable.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors
Risks Related to Our Business
We continue to expand the pursuit of our Decision Management strategy, and we may not be successful, which could cause our growth prospects and results of operations to suffer.
We continue to expand the pursuit of our business objective to become a leader in helping businesses automate and improve decisions across their enterprises, an approach that we commonly refer to as Decision Management, or “DM.” Our DM strategy is designed to enable us to increase our business by selling multiple products to clients, as well as to enable the development of custom client solutions that may lead to opportunities to develop new proprietary scores or other new proprietary products.
Our DM strategy is also increasingly focused on the delivery of our products through cloud-based deployments.
The market may be unreceptive to our general DM business approach, including being unreceptive to purchasing multiple products from us, unreceptive to our customized solutions, or unreceptive to our cloud-based offerings.
As we continue to pursue our DM strategy, we may experience volatility in our revenues and operating results caused by various factors, including differences in revenue recognition treatment between our cloud-based offerings and on-premise software licenses, the timing of investments and other expenditures necessary to develop and operate our cloud-based offerings, and the adoption of new sales and delivery methods.
If our DM strategy is not successful, we may not be able to grow our business, growth may occur more slowly than we anticipate, or our revenues and profits may decline.
We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from a small number of products and services, and if the market does not continue to accept these products and services, our revenues will decline.
•changes in the business analytics industry;
•changes in technology;
•our inability to obtain or use key data for our products;
•saturation or contraction of market demand;
•loss of key customers;
•industry consolidation;
•failure to successfully adopt cloud-based technologies;
•failure to execute our selling approach; and
•inability to successfully sell our products in new vertical markets.
If we are unable to access new markets or develop new distribution channels, our business and growth prospects could suffer.
We expect that part of the growth that we seek to achieve through our DM strategy will be derived from the sale of DM products and service solutions in industries and markets we do not currently serve.
We also expect to grow our business by delivering our DM solutions through additional distribution channels.
If we fail to penetrate these industries and markets to the degree we anticipate utilizing our DM strategy, or if we fail to develop additional distribution channels, we may not be able to grow our business, growth may occur more slowly than we anticipate, or our revenues and profits may decline.
If we are unable to develop successful new products or if we experience defects, failures and delays associated with the introduction of new products, our business could suffer serious harm.
Our growth and the success of our DM strategy depend upon our ability to develop and sell new products or suites of products, including the development and sale of our cloud-based product offerings.
If we are unable to develop new products, or if we are not successful in introducing new products, we may not be able to grow our business or growth may occur more slowly than we anticipate.
In addition, significant undetected errors or delays in new products or new versions of products may affect market acceptance of our products and could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations.
In the past, we have experienced delays while developing and introducing new products and product enhancements, primarily due to difficulties developing models, acquiring data, and adapting to particular operating environments or certain client or other systems.
We have also experienced errors or “bugs” in our software products, despite testing prior to release of the products.
Software errors in our products could affect the ability of our products to work with other hardware or software products, could delay the development or release of new products or new versions of products, and could adversely affect market acceptance of our products.
Errors or defects in our products that are significant, or are perceived to be significant, could result in rejection of our products, damage to our reputation, loss of revenues, diversion of development resources, an increase in product liability claims, and increases in service and support costs and warranty claims.
We rely on relatively few customers, as well as our contracts with the three major credit reporting agencies, for a significant portion of our revenues and profits.
Many of our customers are significantly larger than we are and may have greater bargaining power.
The businesses of our largest customers depend, in large part, on favorable macroeconomic conditions.
If these customers are negatively impacted by weak global economic conditions, global economic volatility or the terms of these relationships otherwise change, our revenues and operating results could decline.
Most of our customers are relatively large enterprises, such as banks, payment card processors, insurance companies, healthcare firms, telecommunications providers, retailers and public agencies.
As a result, many of our customers and potential customers are significantly larger than we are and may have sufficient bargaining power to demand reduced prices and favorable nonstandard terms.
In addition, the U.S. and other key international economies have experienced in the past a downturn in which economic activity was impacted by falling demand for a variety of goods and services, restricted credit, poor liquidity, reduced corporate profitability, volatility in credit, equity and foreign exchange markets, bankruptcies and overall uncertainty with respect to the economy.
The European Union (“E.U.”) continues to face great economic uncertainty which could impact the overall world economy or various other regional economies.
The potential for economic disruption presents considerable risks to our business, including potential bankruptcies or credit deterioration of financial institutions with which we have substantial relationships.
Such disruption could result in a decline in the volume of transactions that we execute for our customers.
We also derive a substantial portion of our revenues and operating income from our contracts with the three major credit reporting agencies, Experian, TransUnion and Equifax, and other parties that distribute our products to certain markets.
The loss of or a significant change in a relationship with one of these credit reporting agencies with respect to their distribution of our products or with respect to our myFICO® offerings, the loss of or a significant change in a relationship with a major customer, the loss of or a significant change in a relationship with a significant third-party distributor (including payment card processors), or the delay of significant revenues from these sources, could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations.
We rely on relationships with third parties for marketing, distribution and certain services.
If we experience difficulties in these relationships, our future revenues may be adversely affected.
Most of our products rely on distributors, and we intend to continue to market and distribute our products through existing and future distributor relationships.
Our Scores segment relies on, among others, Experian, TransUnion and Equifax.
Failure of our existing and future distributors to generate significant revenues or otherwise perform their expected services or functions, demands by such distributors to change the terms on which they offer our products, or our failure to establish additional distribution or sales and marketing alliances, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.
In addition, certain of our distributors presently compete with us and may compete with us in the future, either by developing competitive products themselves or by distributing competitive offerings.
For example, Experian, TransUnion and Equifax have developed a credit scoring product to compete directly with our products and are collectively attempting to sell the product.
Competition from distributors or other sales and marketing partners could significantly harm sales of our products and services.
Our acquisition and divestiture activities may disrupt our ongoing business and may involve increased expenses, and we may not realize the financial and strategic goals contemplated at the time of a transaction.
•our ongoing business may be disrupted and our management’s attention may be diverted by acquisition, transition or integration activities;
•an acquisition may not further our business strategy as we expected, we may not integrate acquired operations or technology as successfully as we expected or we may overpay for our investments, or otherwise not realize the expected return, which could adversely affect our business or operating results;
•we may be unable to retain the key employees, customers and other business partners of the acquired operation;
•we may have difficulties entering new markets where we have no or limited direct prior experience or where competitors may have stronger market positions;
•our operating results or financial condition may be adversely impacted by claims or liabilities we assume from an acquired company, business, product or technology, including claims by government agencies, terminated employees, current or former customers, former stockholders or other third parties; pre-existing contractual relationships of an acquired company we would not have otherwise entered into; unfavorable revenue recognition or other accounting treatment as a result of an acquired company’s practices; and intellectual property claims or disputes;
•we may fail to identify or assess the magnitude of certain liabilities or other circumstances prior to acquiring a company, business, product or technology, which could result in unexpected litigation or regulatory exposure, unfavorable accounting treatment, unexpected increases in taxes due, a loss of anticipated tax benefits or other adverse effects on our business, operating results or financial condition;
•we may not realize the anticipated increase in our revenues from an acquisition for a number of reasons, including if a larger than predicted number of customers decline to renew their contracts, if we are unable to sell the acquired products to our customer base or if contract models of an acquired company do not allow us to recognize revenues on a timely basis;
•we may have difficulty incorporating acquired technologies or products with our existing product lines and maintaining uniform standards, architecture, controls, procedures and policies;
•our use of cash to pay for acquisitions may limit other potential uses of our cash, including stock repurchases, dividend payments and retirement of outstanding indebtedness;
•to the extent we issue a significant amount of equity securities in connection with future acquisitions, existing stockholders may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease; and
•we may experience additional or unexpected changes in how we are required to account for our acquisitions pursuant to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, including arrangements we assume from an acquisition.
•disruption of our ongoing business;
•reductions of our revenues or earnings per share;
•unanticipated liabilities, legal risks and costs;
•the potential loss of key personnel;
•distraction of management from our ongoing business; and
•impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of migrating a business to new owners.
Because acquisitions and divestitures are inherently risky, our transactions may not be successful and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.
Acquisitions of businesses having a significant presence outside the U.S. will increase our exposure to the risks of conducting operations in international markets.
Charges to earnings resulting from acquisitions may adversely affect our operating results.
•impairment of goodwill or intangible assets, or a reduction in the useful lives of intangible assets acquired;
•amortization of intangible assets acquired;
•identification of, or changes to, assumed contingent liabilities, both income tax and non-income tax related, after our final determination of the amounts for these contingencies or the conclusion of the measurement period (generally up to one year from the acquisition date), whichever comes first;
•costs incurred to combine the operations of companies we acquire, such as transitional employee expenses and employee retention, redeployment or relocation expenses;
•charges to our operating results to maintain certain duplicative pre-merger activities for an extended period of time or to maintain these activities for a period of time that is longer than we had anticipated, charges to eliminate certain duplicative pre-merger activities, and charges to restructure our operations or to reduce our cost structure; and
•charges to our operating results resulting from expenses incurred to effect the acquisition.
Substantially all of these costs will be accounted for as expenses that will decrease our net income and earnings per share for the periods in which those costs are incurred.
Charges to our operating results in any given period could differ substantially from other periods based on the timing and size of our future acquisitions and the extent of integration activities.
A more detailed discussion of our accounting for business combinations and other items is presented in the “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Item 2).
Our reengineering initiative may cause our growth prospects and profitability to suffer.
As part of our management approach, we implemented an ongoing reengineering initiative designed to grow revenues through strategic resource allocation and improve profitability through cost reductions.
Our reengineering initiative may not be successful over the long term as a result of our failure to reduce expenses at the anticipated level, or a lower, or no, positive impact on revenues from strategic resource allocation.
If our reengineering initiative is not successful over the long term, our revenues, results of operations and business may suffer.
The occurrence of certain negative events may cause fluctuations in our stock price.
•variability in demand from our existing customers;
•failure to meet the expectations of market analysts;
•changes in recommendations by market analysts;
•the lengthy and variable sales cycle of many products, combined with the relatively large size of orders for our products, increases the likelihood of short-term fluctuation in revenues;
•consumer or customer dissatisfaction with, or problems caused by, the performance of our products;
•the timing of new product announcements and introductions in comparison with our competitors;
•the level of our operating expenses;
•changes in competitive and other conditions in the consumer credit, banking and insurance industries;
•fluctuations in domestic and international economic conditions;
•our ability to complete large installations, and to adopt and configure cloud-based deployments, on schedule and within budget;
•acquisition-related expenses and charges; and
•timing of orders for and deliveries of software systems.
In addition, the financial markets have at various times experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the stock prices of many technology companies and financial services companies, and these fluctuations sometimes have been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies.
Broad market fluctuations, as well as industry-specific and general economic conditions, may negatively affect our business and require us to record an impairment charge related to goodwill, which could adversely affect our results of operations, stock price and business.
Our products have long and variable sales cycles.
If we do not accurately predict these cycles, we may not forecast our financial results accurately, and our stock price could be adversely affected.
We typically have revenue-generating transactions concentrated in the final weeks of a quarter, which may prevent accurate forecasting of our financial results and cause our stock price to decline.
Large portions of our customer agreements are consummated in the weeks immediately preceding quarter end.
Before these agreements are consummated, we create and rely on forecasted revenues for planning, modeling and earnings guidance.
Forecasts, however, are only estimates and actual results may vary for a particular quarter or longer periods of time.
Consequently, significant discrepancies between actual and forecasted results could limit our ability to plan, budget or provide accurate guidance, which could adversely affect our stock price.
Any publicly-stated revenue or earnings projections are subject to this risk.
The failure to recruit and retain additional qualified personnel could hinder our ability to successfully manage our business.
The failure to obtain certain forms of model construction data from our customers or others could harm our business.
Our business requires that we develop or obtain a reliable source of sufficient amounts of current and statistically relevant data to analyze transactions and update our products.
In most cases, these data must be periodically updated and refreshed to enable our products to continue to work effectively in a changing environment.
We do not own or control much of the data that we require, most of which is collected privately and maintained in proprietary databases.
Customers and key business partners provide us with the data we require to analyze transactions, report results and build new models.
Our DM strategy depends in part upon our ability to access new forms of data to develop custom and proprietary analytic tools.
If we fail to maintain sufficient data sourcing relationships with our customers and business partners, or if they decline to provide such data due to privacy concerns, competition concerns, prohibitions or a lack of permission from their customers or partners, we could lose access to required data and our products, and the development of new products, might become less effective.
Third parties have asserted copyright and other intellectual property interests in these data, and these assertions, if successful, could prevent us from using these data.
Any interruption of our supply of data could seriously harm our business, financial condition or results of operations.
We will continue to rely upon proprietary technology rights, and if we are unable to protect them, our business could be harmed.
Our success depends, in part, upon our proprietary technology and other intellectual property rights.
To date, we have relied primarily on a combination of copyright, patent, trade secret, and trademark laws, and nondisclosure and other contractual restrictions on copying and distribution, to protect our proprietary technology.
This protection of our proprietary technology is limited, and our proprietary technology could be used by others without our consent.
In addition, patents may not be issued with respect to our pending or future patent applications, and our patents may not be upheld as valid or may not prevent the development of competitive products.
Any disclosure, loss, invalidity of, or failure to protect our intellectual property could negatively impact our competitive position, and ultimately, our business.
There can be no assurance that our protection of our intellectual property rights in the U.S. or abroad will be adequate or that others, including our competitors, will not use our proprietary technology without our consent.
Furthermore, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others.
Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations.
Some of our technologies were developed under research projects conducted under agreements with various U.S. government agencies or subcontractors.
Although we have commercial rights to these technologies, the U.S. government typically retains ownership of intellectual property rights and licenses in the technologies developed by us under these contracts, and in some cases can terminate our rights in these technologies if we fail to commercialize them on a timely basis.
Under these contracts with the U.S. government, the results of research may be made public by the government, limiting our competitive advantage with respect to future products based on our research.
If we are subject to infringement claims, it could harm our business.
•incur significant defense costs or substantial damages;
•be required to cease the use or sale of infringing products;
•expend significant resources to develop or license a substitute non-infringing technology;
•discontinue the use of some technology; or
•be required to obtain a license under the intellectual property rights of the third party claiming infringement, which license may not be available or might require substantial royalties or license fees that would reduce our margins.
Moreover, in recent years, individuals and groups that are non-practicing entities, commonly referred to as “patent trolls”, have purchased patents and other intellectual property assets for the purpose of making claims of infringement in order to extract settlements.
From time to time, we may receive threatening letters or notices or may be the subject of claims that our solutions and underlying technology infringe or violate the intellectual property rights of others.
Responding to such claims, regardless of their merit, can be time consuming, costly to defend in litigation, divert management's attention and resources, damage our reputation and brand, and cause us to incur significant expenses.
If our security measures are compromised or unauthorized access to customer or consumer data is otherwise obtained, our products and services may be perceived as not being secure, customers may curtail or cease their use of our products and services, our reputation may be damaged and we could incur significant liabilities.
Our business requires the storage, transmission and utilization of sensitive consumer and customer information.
Many of our products are provided by us through the Internet.
Security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss, the unauthorized disclosure of consumer or customer information, litigation, indemnity obligations and other liability.
If our security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and as a result, someone obtains unauthorized access to our systems or to consumer or customer information, our reputation may be damaged, our business may suffer and we could incur significant liability.
Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, or to sabotage systems, change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures.
Malicious third parties may also conduct attacks designed to temporarily deny customers access to our services.
Security compromises experienced by our competitors, by our distributors, by our customers or by us may lead to public disclosures, which may lead to widespread negative publicity.
Any security compromise in our industry, whether actual or perceived, could harm our reputation, erode customer confidence in the effectiveness of our security measures, negatively impact our ability to attract new customers, cause existing customers to curtail or cease their use of our products and services, cause regulatory or industry changes that impact our products and services, or subject us to third-party lawsuits, regulatory fines or other action or liability, all of which could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results.
Protection from system interruptions is important to our business.
If we experience system interruptions, it could harm our business.
Systems or network interruptions, including interruptions experienced in connection with our cloud-based and other product offerings, could delay and disrupt our ability to develop, deliver or maintain our products and services, causing harm to our business and reputation and resulting in loss of customers or revenue.
These interruptions can include software or hardware malfunctions, communication failures, outages or other failures of third party environments or service providers, fires, floods, earthquakes, power losses, equipment failures and other events beyond our control.
Risks Related to Our Industry
Our ability to increase our revenues will depend to some extent upon introducing new products and services.
If the marketplace does not accept these new products and services, our revenues may decline.
We have a significant share of the available market in portions of our Scores segment and for certain services in our Applications segment, specifically, the markets for account management services at payment card processors and payment card fraud detection software.
To increase our revenues, we must enhance and improve existing products and continue to introduce new products and new versions of existing products that keep pace with technological developments, satisfy increasingly sophisticated customer requirements and achieve market acceptance.
We believe much of the future growth of our business and the success of our DM strategy will rest on our ability to continue to expand into newer markets for our products and services.
Such areas are relatively new to our product development and sales and marketing personnel.
Products that we plan to market in the future are in various stages of development.
We cannot assure you that the marketplace will accept these products.
If our current or potential customers are not willing to switch to or adopt our new products and services, either as a result of the quality of these products and services or due to other factors, such as economic conditions, our revenues will decrease.
If we fail to keep up with rapidly changing technologies, our products could become less competitive or obsolete.
•innovate by internally developing new and competitive technologies;
•use leading third-party technologies effectively;
•continue to develop our technical expertise;
•anticipate and effectively respond to changing customer needs;
•initiate new product introductions in a way that minimizes the impact of customers delaying purchases of existing products in anticipation of new product releases; and
•influence and respond to emerging industry standards and other technological changes.
If our competitors introduce new products and pricing strategies, it could decrease our product sales and market share, or could pressure us to reduce our product prices in a manner that reduces our margins.
•in-house analytic and systems developers;
•scoring model builders;
•fraud and security management providers;
•enterprise resource planning, customer relationship management, and customer communication and mobility solution providers;
•business intelligence solutions providers;
•credit report and credit score providers;
•business process management and decision rules management providers;
•process modeling tools providers;
•automated application processing services providers;
•data vendors;
•neural network developers and artificial intelligence system builders;
•third-party professional services and consulting organizations;
•software tools companies supplying modeling, rules, or analytic development tools; collections and recovery solutions providers; entity resolution and social network analysis solutions providers; and
•cloud-based customer engagement and risk management solutions providers.
We expect to experience additional competition from other established and emerging companies, as well as from other technologies.
For example, certain of our fraud solutions products compete against other methods of preventing payment card fraud, such as payment cards that contain the cardholder’s photograph; smart cards; cardholder verification and authentication solutions; biometric measures on devices including fingerprint and face matching; and other card authorization techniques and user verification techniques.
Many of our anticipated competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing, professional services and other resources than we do, and industry consolidation is creating even larger competitors in many of our markets.
As a result, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements.
They may also be able to devote greater resources than we can to develop, promote and sell their products.
Many of these companies have extensive customer relationships, including relationships with many of our current and potential customers.
Furthermore, new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly gain significant market share.
For example, Experian, TransUnion and Equifax have formed an alliance that has developed a credit scoring product competitive with our products.
If we are unable to respond as quickly or effectively to changes in customer requirements as our competition, our ability to expand our business and sell our products will be negatively affected.
Our competitors may be able to sell products competitive to ours at lower prices individually or as part of integrated suites of several related products.
This ability may cause our customers to purchase products that directly compete with our products from our competitors.
Price reductions by our competitors could negatively impact our margins, and could also harm our ability to obtain new long-term contracts and renewals of existing long-term contracts on favorable terms.
Laws and regulations in the U.S. and abroad that apply to us or to our customers may expose us to liability, cause us to incur significant expense, affect our ability to compete in certain markets, limit the profitability of or demand for our products, or render our products obsolete.
If these laws and regulations require us to change our products and services, it could adversely affect our business and results of operations.
New legislation or regulations, or changes to existing laws and regulations, may also negatively impact our business and increase our costs of doing business.
•Use of data by creditors and consumer reporting agencies (e.g., the U.S. Fair Credit Reporting Act);
•Laws and regulations that limit the use of credit scoring models (e.g., state “mortgage trigger” or “inquiries” laws, state insurance restrictions on the use of credit-based insurance scores, and the E.U.
Consumer Credit Directive);
•Fair lending laws (e.g., the U.S.
Truth In Lending Act and Regulation Z, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and Regulation B, and the Fair Housing Act);
•Privacy and security laws and regulations that limit the use and disclosure of personally identifiable information, require security procedures, or otherwise apply to the collection, processing, storage, use and transmission of protected data (e.g., the U.S. Financial Services Modernization Act of 1999, also known as the Gramm Leach Bliley Act; the General Data Protection Regulation (the “GDPR”) adopted by the EU Parliament, the EU Council and the EU Commission, and country-specific data protection laws enacted to supplement the GDPR; the U.S. Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act; the Cybersecurity Act of 2015; the U.S. Department of Commerce’s National Institute of Standards and Technology’s Cybersecurity Framework; and identity theft, file freezing, security breach notification and similar state privacy laws);
•Extension of credit to consumers through the Electronic Fund Transfers Act and Regulation E, as well as non‑governmental VISA and MasterCard electronic payment standards;
•Regulations applicable to, or standards and criteria adopted by, secondary market participants (e.g., Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac) that could have an impact on our scoring products, including any regulations, standards or criteria established as the result of Section 310 of the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act (Public Law 115-174);
•Laws and regulations applicable to our customer communication clients and their use of our products and services (e.g., the Telemarketing Sales Rule, Telephone Consumer Protection Act and regulations promulgated thereunder);
•Laws and regulations applicable to our insurance clients and their use of our insurance products and services;
•The application or extension of consumer protection laws, including implementing regulations (e.g., the Consumer Financial Protection Act, the Federal Trade Commission Act, the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act, the Military Lending Act, and the Credit Repair Organizations Act);
•Laws and regulations governing the use of the Internet and social media, telemarketing, advertising, endorsements and testimonials;
•Anti-bribery and corruption laws and regulations (e.g., the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act);
•Financial regulatory standards (e.g., Sarbanes-Oxley Act requirements to maintain and verify internal process controls, including controls for material event awareness and notification);
•Regulatory requirements for managing third parties (e.g., vendors, contractors, suppliers and distributors);
•Anti-money laundering laws and regulations (e.g., the Bank Secrecy Act and the USA Patriot Act);
•Financial regulatory reform stemming from the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and the many regulations mandated by that Act, including regulations issued by, and the supervisory and investigative authority of, the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection; and
•Laws and regulations regarding export controls as they apply to FICO products delivered in non-U.S. countries.
In addition, many U.S. and foreign jurisdictions have passed, or are currently contemplating, a variety of consumer protection, privacy, and data security laws and regulations that may relate to our business or affect the demand for our products and services.
For example, the GDPR became effective on May 25, 2018 and imposes more stringent operational requirements for entities processing personal information and greater penalties for noncompliance.
The California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018, which was enacted on June 28, 2018 and will become effective on January 1, 2020, gives California residents certain privacy rights in the collection and disclosure of their personal information and requires businesses to make certain disclosures and take certain other acts in furtherance of those rights.
The costs and other burdens of compliance with privacy and data security laws and regulations could negatively impact the use and adoption of our solutions and reduce overall demand for them.
Additionally, concerns regarding data privacy may cause our customers, or their customers and potential customers, to resist providing the data necessary to allow us to deliver our solutions effectively.
Even the perception that the privacy of personal information is not satisfactorily protected or does not meet regulatory requirements could inhibit sales of our solutions and any failure to comply with such laws and regulations could lead to significant fines, penalties or other liabilities.
Any such decrease in demand or incurred fines, penalties or other liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.
In addition to existing laws and regulations, changes in the U.S. or foreign legislative, judicial, regulatory or consumer environments could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations.
The laws and regulations above, and changes to them, could affect the demand for or profitability of our products, including scoring and consumer products.
New laws and regulations pertaining to our customers could cause them to pursue new strategies, reducing the demand for our products.
Our revenues depend, to a great extent, upon conditions in the banking (including consumer credit) and insurance industries.
If our clients’ industries experience uncertainty, it will likely harm our business, financial condition or results of operations.
 During fiscal 2018, 87% of our revenues were derived from sales of products and services to the banking and insurance industries.
Global economic uncertainty experienced in the U.S. and other key international economies in the past produced substantial stress, volatility, illiquidity and disruption of global credit and other financial markets, resulting in the bankruptcy or acquisition of, or government assistance to, several major domestic and international financial institutions.
The potential for disruptions presents considerable risks to our businesses and operations.
These risks include potential bankruptcies or credit deterioration of financial institutions, many of which are our customers.
Such disruption would result in a decline in the revenue we receive from financial and other institutions.
While the rate of account growth in the U.S. bankcard industry has been slow and many of our large institutional customers have consolidated in recent years, we have generated most of our revenue growth from our bankcard-related scoring and account management businesses by selling and cross-selling our products and services to large banks and other credit issuers.
As the banking industry continues to experience contraction in the number of participating institutions, we may have fewer opportunities for revenue growth due to reduced or changing demand for our products and services that support customer acquisition programs of our customers.
In addition, industry contraction could affect the base of recurring revenues derived from contracts in which we are paid on a per-transaction basis as formerly separate customers combine their operations under one contract.
There can be no assurance that we will be able to prevent future revenue contraction or effectively promote future revenue growth in our businesses.
While we are attempting to expand our sales of consumer credit, banking and insurance products and services into international markets, the risks are greater as these markets are also experiencing substantial disruption and we are less well-known in them.
Risks Related to External Conditions
Material adverse developments in global economic conditions, or the occurrence of certain other world events, could affect demand for our products and services and harm our business.
Purchases of technology products and services and decisioning solutions are subject to adverse economic conditions.
When an economy is struggling, companies in many industries delay or reduce technology purchases, and we experience softened demand for our decisioning solutions and other products and services.
Global economic uncertainty has produced substantial stress, volatility, illiquidity and disruption of global credit and other financial markets in the past.
Any economic uncertainty can negatively affect the businesses and purchasing decisions of companies in the industries we serve.
The potential for disruptions presents considerable risks to our businesses and operations.
If global economic conditions experience stress and negative volatility, or if there is an escalation in regional or global conflicts or terrorism, we will likely experience reductions in the number of available customers and in capital expenditures by our remaining customers, longer sales cycles, deferral or delay of purchase commitments for our products and increased price competition, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations and liquidity.
For example, on June 23, 2016, the United Kingdom (“U.K.”) held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the E.U., commonly referred to as “Brexit.” As a result of the referendum, on March 29, 2017, the U.K. triggered Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty formally starting negotiations regarding its exit from the E.U.
The U.K. has two years to complete these negotiations, and the future relationship between the U.K. and the E.U.
remains unknown.
Brexit has caused, and may continue to create, volatility in global stock markets and regional and global economic uncertainty, which may cause our customers to closely monitor their costs and reduce their spending budget on our products and services.
Whether or not recent or new legislative or regulatory initiatives or other efforts successfully stabilize and add liquidity to the financial markets, we may need to modify our strategies, businesses or operations, and we may incur additional costs in order to compete in a changed business environment.
Given the volatile nature of the global economic environment and the uncertainties underlying efforts to stabilize it, we may not timely anticipate or manage existing, new or additional risks, as well as contingencies or developments, which may include regulatory developments and trends in new products and services.
Our failure to do so could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.
In operations outside the U.S., we are subject to additional risks that may harm our business, financial condition or results of operations.
•general economic and political conditions in countries where we sell our products and services;
•difficulty in staffing and efficiently managing our operations in multiple geographic locations and in various countries;
•effects of a variety of foreign laws and regulations, including restrictions on access to personal information;
•import and export licensing requirements;
•longer payment cycles;
•reduced protection for intellectual property rights;
•currency fluctuations;
•changes in tariffs and other trade barriers; and
•difficulties and delays in translating products and related documentation into foreign languages.
There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully address each of these challenges in the near term.
Additionally, some of our business will be conducted in currencies other than the U.S. dollar.
Foreign currency transaction gains and losses are not currently material to our cash flows, financial position or results of operations.
However, an increase in our foreign revenues could subject us to increased foreign currency transaction risks in the future.
In addition to the risk of depending on international sales, we have risks incurred in having research and development personnel located in various international locations.
We currently have a substantial portion of our product development staff in international locations, some of which have political and developmental risks.
If such risks materialize, our business could be damaged.
Our anti-takeover defenses could make it difficult for another company to acquire control of FICO, thereby limiting the demand for our securities by certain types of purchasers or the price investors are willing to pay for our stock.
Certain provisions of our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, could make a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving us difficult, even if such events would be beneficial to the interests of our stockholders.
These provisions include giving our board the ability to issue preferred stock and determine the rights and designations of the preferred stock at any time without stockholder approval.
The rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future.
The issuance of preferred stock, while providing flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or discouraging a third party from acquiring, a majority of our outstanding voting stock.
These factors and certain provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers or otherwise delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in our management, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium over the fair market value of our common stock.
If we experience changes in tax laws or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income tax returns, it could adversely affect our results of operations.
We are subject to federal and state income taxes in the U.S. and in certain foreign jurisdictions.
Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes.
Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in tax laws, by our ability to generate taxable income in foreign jurisdictions in order to utilize foreign tax losses, and by the valuation of our deferred tax assets.
In addition, we are subject to the examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities.
We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from such examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes.
There can be no assurance that the outcomes from such examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.
