Item 2.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS

Statements contained in this report that are not statements of historical fact should be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
In addition, certain statements in our future filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), in press releases, and in oral and written statements made by us or with our approval that are not statements of historical fact constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Act.
Examples of forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: (i) projections of revenue, income or loss, expenses, earnings or loss per share, the payment or nonpayment of dividends, capital structure and other statements concerning future financial performance; (ii) statements of our plans and objectives by our management or Board of Directors, including those relating to products or services, research and development, and the sufficiency of capital resources; (iii) statements of assumptions underlying such statements, including those related to economic conditions; (iv) statements regarding business relationships with vendors, customers or collaborators, including the proportion of revenues generated from international as opposed to domestic customers; and (v) statements regarding products, their characteristics, performance, sales potential or effect in the hands of customers.
Words such as “believes,” “anticipates,” “expects,” “intends,” “targeted,” “should,” “potential,” “goals,” “strategy,” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements, but are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements.
Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those in such statements.
Factors that could cause actual results to differ from those discussed in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those described in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors.
The performance of our business and our securities may be adversely affected by these factors and by other factors common to other businesses and investments, or to the general economy.
Forward-looking statements are qualified by some or all of these risk factors.
Therefore, you should consider these risk factors with caution and form your own critical and independent conclusions about the likely effect of these risk factors on our future performance.
Such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which statements are made, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statement is made to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events or circumstances.
Readers should carefully review the disclosures and the risk factors described in this and other documents we file from time to time with the SEC, including our reports on Form 8-K to be filed by us in fiscal 2018.
OVERVIEW

We use analytics to help businesses automate, improve and connect decisions across their enterprise, an approach we commonly refer to as decision management.
Our predictive analytics, which includes the industry-standard FICO® Score, and our decision management systems leverage the use of big data and mathematical algorithms to predict consumer behavior and power hundreds of billions of customer decisions each year.
We help thousands of companies in over 100 countries use our decision management technology to target and acquire customers more efficiently, increase customer value, reduce fraud and credit losses, lower operating expenses, and enter new markets more profitably.
Most leading banks and credit card issuers rely on our solutions, as do insurers, retailers, telecommunications providers, pharmaceutical companies, healthcare organizations, public agencies and organizations in other industries.
We also serve consumers through online services that enable people to purchase and understand their FICO® Scores, the standard measure of consumer credit risk in the U.S., and empower them to manage their financial health.
Most of our solutions address customer engagement, including customer acquisition, customer onboarding, customer servicing and management, and customer protection.
We also help businesses improve noncustomer decisions such as transaction and claims processing.
Our solutions enable users to make decisions that are more precise, consistent and agile, and that systematically advance business goals.
This helps our clients to reduce the cost of doing business, increase revenues and profitability, reduce losses from risks and fraud, and increase customer loyalty.
We derive a significant portion of our revenues from clients outside the U.S. International revenues accounted for 33% and 34% of total consolidated revenues for the quarters ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and 33% and 35% of total consolidated revenues for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
A significant portion of our revenues are derived from the sale of products and services within the banking (including consumer credit) industry, and 87% and 74% of our revenues were derived from within this industry during the quarters ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and 85% and 74% of our revenues were derived from within this industry during the nine months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
In addition, we derive a significant share of revenues from transactional or unit-based software license fees, transactional fees derived under credit scoring, data processing, data management and SaaS subscription services arrangements, and annual software maintenance fees.
Arrangements with transactional or unit-based pricing accounted for 75% and 72% of our revenues during the quarters ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Arrangements with transactional or unit-based pricing accounted for 75% and 71% of our revenues during the nine months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
We continue to drive growth in our Scores segment.
Scores revenue increased 32% to $92.1 million during the quarter ended June 30, 2018 from $69.5 million during the quarter ended June 30, 2017, and 29% to $249.9 million during the nine months ended June 30, 2018 from $194.3 million during the nine months ended June 30, 2017.
Scores operating income increased 36% to $75.7 million during the quarter ended June 30, 2018 from $55.5 million during the quarter ended June 30, 2017, and 32% to $201.3 million during the nine months ended June 30, 2018 from $152.5 million during the nine months ended June 30, 2017.
For our Applications and Decision Management Software segments, our cloud business continues to grow both in the absolute dollar value and as a percentage of revenues as we pursue our cloud-first strategy.
During the quarter ended June 30, 2018, cloud revenues accounted for $58.1 million, or 35% of non-Scores revenues, compared to $51.2 million, or 32% during the quarter ended June 30, 2017.
During the nine months ended June 30, 2018, cloud revenues accounted for $177.6 million, or 35% of non-Scores revenues, compared to $151.1 million, or 31% during the nine months ended June 30, 2017.
Operating income increased 17% to $48.4 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2018 from $41.4 million during the quarter ended June 30, 2017 and as a result, net earnings increased 28% to $32.4 million from $25.2 million.
Operating income increased 17% to $136.4 million for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 from $116.4 million for the nine months ended June 30, 2017, and net earnings increased 4% to $91.9 million from $88.2 million primarily due to the increase in operating income, partially offset by the income tax expense related to enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.
We continue to enhance stockholder value by returning cash to stockholders through our stock repurchase program.
During the quarter and nine months ended June 30, 2018, we repurchased approximately 0.6 million shares at a total repurchase price of $106.9 million and 1.4 million shares at a total repurchase price of $231.5 million, respectively.
As of June 30, 2018, we had $55.1 million remaining under our then-current stock repurchase program.
Bookings

Management uses bookings as an indicator of our business performance.
Bookings represent contracts signed in the current reporting period that generate current and future revenue streams.
We consider contract terms, knowledge of the marketplace and experience with our customers, among other factors, when determining the estimated value of contract bookings.
Bookings calculations have varying degrees of certainty depending on the revenue type and individual contract terms.
Our revenue types are transactional and maintenance, professional services and license.
Our estimate of bookings is as of the end of the period in which a contract is signed, and we do not update initial booking estimates in future periods for changes between estimated and actual results.
Actual revenue and the timing thereof could differ materially from our initial estimates.
The following paragraphs discuss the key assumptions used to calculate bookings and the susceptibility of these assumptions to variability.
Transactional and Maintenance Bookings


•The health of the economy and economic trends in our customers’ industries;

•Individual performance of our customers relative to their competitors; and

•Regulatory and other factors that affect the business environment in which our customers operate.
We calculate maintenance bookings directly from the terms stated in the contract.
Professional Services Bookings

We calculate professional services bookings as the estimated number of hours to complete a project multiplied by the rate per hour.
We estimate the number of hours based on our understanding of the project scope, conversations with customer personnel and our experience in estimating professional services projects.
Estimated bookings may differ from actual results primarily due to differences in the actual number of hours incurred.
These differences typically result from customer decisions to alter the mix of FICO and customer services resources used to complete a project.
License Bookings

Licenses are sold on a perpetual or term basis and bookings generally equal the fixed amount stated in the contract.
Bookings Trend Analysis





Transactional and maintenance bookings were 43% and 39% of total bookings for the quarters ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Professional services bookings were 46% and 43% of total bookings for the quarters ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
License bookings were 11% and 18% of total bookings for the quarters ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Transactional and maintenance bookings were 41% and 37% of total bookings for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Professional services bookings were 47% and 45% of total bookings for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
License bookings were 12% and 18% of total bookings for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Revenues



Quarter Ended June 30, 2018 Compared to Quarter Ended June 30, 2017 

Applications


Applications segment revenues increased $7.8 million primarily due to a $2.4 million increase in our Compliance solutions, a $2.1 million increase in our originations solutions, a $1.8 million increase in our customer management solutions, and a $1.4 million increase in our customer communications services.
The increases in our compliance, originations and customer management solutions were primarily attributable to an increase in transactional and license revenues.
The increase in customer communication services was primarily attributable to an increase in transactional revenue as a result of our continued growth in the mobile communication market.
Scores


Scores segment revenues increased $22.6 million due to an increase of $18.8 million in our business-to-business scores revenue and $3.8 million in our business-to-consumer services revenue.
The increase in business-to-business scores was primarily attributable to an increase in transactional scores in originations, primarily driven by a higher unit price in mortgage activities.
The increase in business-to-consumer services was primarily attributable to an increase in royalties derived from scores sold indirectly to consumers through credit reporting agencies.
During the quarters ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, revenues generated from our agreements with Experian accounted for 12% and 9%, respectively, of our total revenues, and revenues generated from our agreements with Equifax and TransUnion together accounted for 15% and 12%, respectively, of our total revenues.
Revenues from these customers included amounts recorded in our other segments.
Decision Management Software


Decision Management Software segment revenues decreased $1.9 million primarily attributable to a decrease in license revenue related to our FICO® Blaze Advisor® product.
Nine Months Ended June 30, 2018 Compared to Nine Months Ended June 30, 2017 

Applications



Scores


Scores segment revenues increased $55.6 million due to an increase of $43.1 million in our business-to-business scores revenue and $12.5 million in our business-to-consumer services revenue.
The increase in business-to-business scores was primarily attributable to a $35.6 million increase in transactional scores in originations, primarily driven by a higher unit price in mortgage activities; as well as an $8.9 million increase in transactional scores in account management and prescreen, driven by higher transactional volume.
The increase in business-to-consumer services was primarily attributable to an increase in royalties derived from scores sold indirectly to consumers through credit reporting agencies.
During the nine months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, revenues generated from our agreements with Experian accounted for 11% and 9%, respectively, of our total revenues, and revenues generated from our agreements with Equifax and TransUnion together accounted for 14% and 11%, respectively, of our total revenues.
Revenues from these customers included amounts recorded in our other segments.
Decision Management Software


Decision Management Software segment revenues decreased $8.7 million primarily attributable to a decrease in license revenue related to our FICO® Blaze Advisor®.
Cost of Revenues

Cost of revenues consists primarily of employee salaries and benefits for personnel directly involved in developing, installing and supporting revenue products; travel costs; overhead costs; outside services; internal network hosting costs; software royalty fees; and credit bureau data and processing services.
Cost of revenue expenses increased $8.6 million to $78.4 million during the quarter ended June 30, 2018 from $69.8 million during the quarter ended June 30, 2017.
The increase was primarily attributable to a $3.3 million increase in facilities and infrastructure costs, driven by increased resource requirement due to expansion in our cloud infrastructure operations; a $2.7 million increase in personnel and labor costs; and a $2.0 million increase in direct materials cost.
Cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues was 30% during the quarter ended June 30, 2018, consistent with that incurred during the quarter ended June 30, 2017.
Cost of revenues expenses increased $19.3 million to $231.3 million during the nine months ended June 30, 2018 from $211.9 million during the nine months ended June 30, 2017.
The increase was primarily attributable to a $10.8 million increase in facilities and infrastructure costs and a $5.5 million increase in personnel and labor costs.
The increase in facilities and infrastructure costs was primarily attributable to increased resource requirement due to expansion in our cloud infrastructure operations.
The increase in personnel and labor costs was primarily attributable to an increase in incentive cost and share-based compensation costs.
Cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues was 31% during the nine months ended June 30, 2018, consistent with that incurred during the nine months ended June 30, 2017.
Over the next several quarters, we expect cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues will be consistent with that incurred during the quarter ended June 30, 2018.
Research and Development

Research and development expenses include personnel and related overhead costs incurred in the development of new products and services, including research of mathematical and statistical models and development of new versions of Applications and Decision Management Software products.
Research and development expenses increased $4.7 million to $32.5 million during the quarter ended June 30, 2018 from $27.8 million during the quarter ended June 30, 2017.
The increase was primarily attributable to an increase in labor and personnel costs as a result of our continued investment in cloud computing and SaaS, as well as other new products.
Research and development expenses as a percentage of revenues was 12% during the quarter ended June 30, 2018, consistent with that incurred during the quarter ended June 30, 2017.
Research and development expenses increased $13.4 million to $94.0 million during the nine months ended June 30, 2018 from $80.6 million during the nine months ended June 30, 2017, primarily attributable to our continued investment in cloud computing and SaaS, as well as other new products.
Research and development expenses as a percentage of revenues was 12% during the nine months ended June 30, 2018, consistent with that incurred during the nine months ended June 30, 2017.
Over the next several quarters, we expect research and development expenditures as a percentage of revenues will be consistent with that incurred during the quarter ended June 30, 2018.
Selling, General and Administrative

Selling, general and administrative expenses consist principally of employee salaries, commissions and benefits; travel costs; overhead costs; advertising and other promotional expenses; corporate facilities expenses; legal expenses; business development expenses and the cost of operating computer systems.
Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues increased to 38% during the quarter ended June 30, 2018 from 37% during the quarter ended June 30, 2017.
The $14.6 million increase was primarily attributable to a $9.6 million increase in personnel and labor costs as a result of increased headcount, higher share-based compensation and incentive costs; as well as a $6.3 million increase in marketing and travel costs, primarily driven by a company-wide marketing event during the quarter ended June 30, 2018.
Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $30.5 million to $286.0 million during the nine months ended June 30, 2018 from $255.5 million during the nine months ended June 30, 2017, primarily attributable to an increase in personnel and labor costs as a result of increased headcount, higher share-based compensation and incentive costs.
Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues was 38% during the nine months ended June 30, 2018, consistent with that incurred during the nine months ended June 30, 2017.
Over the next several quarters, we expect selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues will be consistent with that incurred during the quarter ended June 30, 2018.
Amortization of Intangible Assets

Amortization of intangible assets consists of amortization expense related to intangible assets recorded in connection with acquisitions accounted for by the acquisition method of accounting.
Our finite-lived intangible assets, consisting primarily of completed technology and customer contracts and relationships, are being amortized using the straight-line method over periods ranging from four to fifteen years.
The quarter over quarter decrease in amortization expense of $1.8 million was primarily attributable to certain intangible assets associated with our HNC and Adeptra acquisitions becoming fully amortized in August and September 2017, respectively.
The year-to-date period over period decrease in amortization expense of $5.0 million was primarily attributable to certain intangible assets associated with our HNC and Adeptra acquisitions becoming fully amortized in August and September 2017, respectively.
Over the next several quarters, we expect that amortization expense will be consistent with the amortization expense we recorded during the quarter ended June 30, 2018.
Restructuring and Acquisition-related

There were no restructuring or acquisition-related expenses during the quarter and nine months ended June 30, 2018.
During both the quarter and nine months ended June 30, 2017, we incurred net charges totaling $4.5 million consisting of $1.7 million in facilities charges associated with vacating excess leased space in San Rafael and $2.8 million in employee separation costs due to the elimination of 79 positions throughout the Company.
Cash payment for all the facilities charges will be paid by the end of our fiscal 2020.
Cash payment for all the employee separation costs were paid before the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
Interest Expense, Net

Interest expense includes primarily interest on the senior notes issued in May 2008, July 2010 and May 2018, as well as interest and credit facility fees on the revolving line of credit.
Our consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income include interest expense netted with interest income, which is derived primarily from the investment of funds in excess of our immediate operating requirements.
The quarter over quarter increase in interest expense of $1.6 million was primarily attributable to a higher average outstanding debt balance during the quarter ended June 30, 2018, as well as a higher average interest rate on our 2018 Senior Notes compared to that on our revolving line of credit.
The year-to-date period over period increase in interest expense of $2.4 million was primarily attributable to a higher average outstanding debt balance during the nine months ended June 30, 2018, as well as a higher average interest rate on our 2018 Senior Notes compared to that on our revolving line of credit.
Over the next several quarters, we expect net interest expense will be higher than the net interest expense incurred during the quarter ended June 30, 2018.
Other Income (Expense), Net


Provision for Income Taxes

The effective income tax rate was 22.5% and 28.6% during the quarters ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and 21.1% and 9.2% during the nine months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The provision for income taxes during interim quarterly reporting periods is based on our estimates of the effective tax rates for the full fiscal year.
The effective tax rate in any quarter can also be affected positively or negatively by adjustments that are required to be reported in the specific quarter of resolution.
The effective tax rate for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 was significantly impacted by recording the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Act”), enacted on December 22, 2017 by the U.S. government.
Among other provisions, the Tax Act reduces the federal corporate tax rate to 21% from the existing maximum rate of 35%, effective January 1, 2018, and imposes a deemed repatriation tax on previously untaxed accumulated earnings and profits of foreign subsidiaries.
We remeasured our deferred tax assets using a blended rate of 24.5% — by applying a pro-rated percentage of the number of days before and after the January 1, 2018 effective date — and recorded provisional charges for the remeasurement of the deferred tax assets of $5.6 million to our income tax expense related to long-term deferred tax assets and $4.4 million related to short-term deferred tax assets during the nine months ended June 30, 2018.
We also recorded a provisional charge of $4.9 million to our income tax expense for the deemed repatriation transition tax.
While we are able to make reasonable estimates of the impact of the reduction in corporate rate and the deemed repatriation transition tax, the final impact of the Tax Act may differ from these estimates, due to, among other things, changes in our interpretations and assumptions, additional guidance that may be issued by the I.R.S., and actions we may take.
We are continuing to gather additional information to determine the final impact.
Operating Income



Applications


Scores 


Decision Management Software 


The quarter over quarter $6.9 million increase in operating income was attributable to a $28.6 million increase in segment revenues, a $4.5 million decrease in restructuring and acquisition-related cost and a $1.7 million decrease in amortization cost, partially offset by an $18.1 million increase in segment operating expenses, a $5.2 million increase in corporate expenses and a $4.6 million increase in share-based compensation cost.
At the segment level, the quarter over quarter $5.3 million increase in segment operating income was the result of a $20.2 million increase in our Scores segment operating income, partially offset by a $5.7 million increase in our Decision Management Software segment operating loss, a $5.2 million increase in corporate expense and a $4.0 million decrease in our Applications segment operating income.
The quarter over quarter $4.0 million decrease in Applications segment operating income was due to an $11.9 million increase in segment operating expenses, partially offset by a $7.9 million increase in segment revenue.
Segment operating income as a percentage of segment revenue for Applications decreased to 24% from 29% mainly due to an increase in personnel cost and an increase in facilities and infrastructure cost, both driven by increased resource requirement due to expansion in our cloud infrastructure operations, which was partially offset by an increase in sales of our higher-margin software products.
The quarter over quarter $20.2 million increase in Scores segment operating income was due to a $22.6 million increase in segment revenue, partially offset by a $2.4 million increase in segment operating expenses.
Segment operating income as a percentage of segment revenue for Scores increased to 82% from 80% mainly due to an increase in sales of our higher-margin score products.
The quarter over quarter $5.7 million increase in Decision Management Software segment operating loss was due to a $3.8 million increase in segment operating expenses and a $1.9 million decrease in segment revenue.
Segment operating margin for Decision Management Software decreased to a negative 36% from a negative 13% primarily due to a decrease in sales of our higher-margin software products, as well as our continued investment in cloud infrastructure operations and new products.
The year-to-date period over period increase of $20.0 million in operating income was attributable to a $73.7 million increase in segment revenues, a $5.0 million decrease in amortization cost and a $4.5 million decrease in restructuring and acquisition-related cost, partially offset by a $36.5 million increase in segment operating expenses, a $15.6 million increase in corporate expenses and an $11.1 million increase in share-based compensation cost.
At the segment level, the year-to-date period over period increase of $21.6 million in segment operating income was the result of a $48.7 million increase in our Scores segment operating income and a $4.6 million increase in our Applications segment operating income, partially offset by a $16.1 million increase in our Decision Management Software segment operating loss and a $15.6 million increase in corporate expenses.
The year-to-date period over period $4.6 million increase in Applications segment operating income was due to a $26.8 million increase in segment revenue, partially offset by a $22.2 million increase in segment operating expenses.
Segment operating income as a percentage of segment revenue for Applications was 26%, materially consistent with the nine months ended June 30, 2017.
The year-to-date period over period $48.7 million increase in Scores segment operating income was attributable to a $55.6 million increase in segment revenue, partially offset by a $6.9 million increase in segment operating expenses.
Segment operating income as a percentage of segment revenue for Scores increased to 81% from 78%, mainly due to an increase in sales of our higher-margin score products.
The year-to-date period over period $16.1 million increase in Decision Management Software segment operating loss was attributable to an $8.7 million decrease in segment revenue and a $7.4 million increase in segment operating expenses.
Segment operating loss as a percentage of segment revenue for Decision Management Software decreased to a negative 35% from a negative 12% primarily due to a decrease in sales of our higher-margin software products, as well as our continued investment in cloud infrastructure operations and new products.
CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY

Outlook

As of June 30, 2018, we had $119.9 million in cash and cash equivalents, which included $96.6 million held off-shore by our foreign subsidiaries.
We believe these balances, as well as available borrowings from our $400 million revolving line of credit and anticipated cash flows from operating activities, will be sufficient to fund our working and other capital requirements.
Under our current financing arrangements, we have no other significant debt obligations maturing over the next twelve months.
Additionally, though we do not anticipate the need to repatriate any undistributed earnings from our foreign subsidiaries for the foreseeable future, we may take advantage of opportunities where we are able to repatriate these earnings to the U.S. without material incremental tax provision.
In the normal course of business, we evaluate the merits of acquiring technology or businesses, or establishing strategic relationships with or investing in these businesses.
We may elect to use available cash and cash equivalents to fund such activities in the future.
In the event additional needs for cash arise, or if we refinance our existing debt, we may raise additional funds from a combination of sources, including the potential issuance of debt or equity securities.
Additional financing might not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all.
If adequate funds were not available or were not available on acceptable terms, our ability to take advantage of unanticipated opportunities or respond to competitive pressures could be limited.
Summary of Cash Flows 


Cash Flows from Operating Activities

Our primary method for funding operations and growth has been through cash flows generated from operating activities.
Net cash provided by operating activities decreased to $163.1 million during the nine months ended June 30, 2018 from $171.4 million during the nine months ended June 30, 2017.
The $8.3 million decrease was mainly attributable to a $23.3 million decrease that resulted from timing of receipts and payments in our ordinary course of business, partially offset by an $11.1 million increase in non-cash share based compensation expense and a $3.7 million increase in net income.
Cash Flows from Investing Activities

Net cash used in investing activities increased to $26.7 million for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 from $15.6 million for the nine months ended June 30, 2017.
The $11.1 million increase was mainly attributable to a $9.4 million increase in purchases of property and equipment as well as a $2.5 million increase in purchases, net of proceeds from sale, of marketable securities.
Cash Flows from Financing Activities

Net cash used in financing activities increased to $117.8 million for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 from $102.8 million for the nine months ended June 30, 2017.
The $15.0 million increase was primarily attributable to a $150.0 million increase in payments, net of proceeds, on our revolving line of credit, a $113.2 million increase in repurchases of common stock, and a $10.6 million decrease in proceeds from issuance of treasury stock under employee stock plans, partially offset by a $269.0 million increase in proceeds, net of payments, from our senior notes.
Repurchases of Common Stock

In July 2016, our Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program following the completion of our previous program.
This program was open-ended and authorized repurchases of shares of our common stock up to an aggregate cost of $250.0 million in the open market or in negotiated transactions.
In October 2017, our Board of Directors approved another stock repurchase program following the completion of the July 2016 program.
This program is open-ended and authorizes repurchases of shares of our common stock up to an aggregate cost of $250.0 million in the open market or in negotiated transactions.
Pursuant to the October 2017 program, we repurchased 563,196 shares of our common stock at a total repurchase price of $106.9 million during the quarter ended June 30, 2018, and pursuant to the July 2016 and October 2017 programs, we repurchased 1,359,117 shares of our common stock at a total repurchase price of $231.5 million during the nine months ended June 30, 2018.
We had $55.1 million remaining under the October 2017 authorization as of June 30, 2018.
In July 2018, our Board of Directors approved a new stock repurchase program following the completion of the October 2017 program.
The new program is open-ended and authorizes repurchases of shares of our common stock up to an aggregate cost of $250.0 million in the open market or in negotiated transactions.
Revolving Line of Credit


Senior Notes

On May 7, 2008, we issued $275 million of senior notes in a private placement to a group of institutional investors (the “2008 Senior Notes”).
On July 14, 2010, we issued $245 million of senior notes in a private placement to a group of institutional investors (the “2010 Senior Notes”).
The 2010 Senior Notes were issued in four series with maturities ranging from 6 to 10 years.
The outstanding 2010 Senior Notes’ weighted average interest rate is 5.6% and the weighted average maturity is 9.8 years.
The 2010 Senior Notes require interest payments semi-annually and contain certain restrictive covenants, including the maintenance of a maximum consolidated net debt to consolidated EBITDA ratio of 3.00 and a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio of 2.50.
On May 8, 2018, we issued $400 million of senior notes in a private offering to qualified institutional investors (the “2018 Senior Notes”, and with the 2008 Senior Notes and the 2010 Senior Notes, the “Senior Notes”).
The 2018 Senior Notes require interest payments semi-annually at a rate of 5.25% per annum and will mature on May 15, 2026.
The purchase agreements for the 2008 and 2010 Senior Notes and the indenture for the 2018 Senior Notes contain certain covenants typical of unsecured obligations.
As of June 30, 2018, the carrying value of the Senior Notes was $506.7 million and we were in compliance with all financial covenants under these obligations.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future material effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

We prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
These accounting principles require management to make certain judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
We periodically evaluate our estimates including those relating to revenue recognition, goodwill and other intangible assets resulting from business acquisitions, share-based compensation, income taxes and contingencies and litigation.
We base our estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable based on the specific circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of certain assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Revenue Recognition

Software Licenses

Software license fee revenue is recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, software is made available to our customers, the fee is fixed or determinable and collection is probable.
The determination of whether fees are fixed or determinable and collection is probable involves the use of assumptions.
If at the outset of an arrangement we determine that the arrangement fee is not fixed or determinable, revenue is deferred until the arrangement fee becomes fixed or determinable, assuming all other revenue recognition criteria have been met.
If at the outset of an arrangement we determine that collectability is not probable, revenue is deferred until the earlier of when collectability becomes probable or the receipt of payment.
If there is uncertainty as to the customer’s acceptance of our deliverables, revenue is not recognized until the earlier of receipt of customer acceptance, expiration of the acceptance period, or when we can demonstrate we meet the acceptance criteria.
We evaluate contract terms and customer information to ensure that these criteria are met prior to our recognition of license fee revenue.
Revenues from post-contract customer support services, such as software maintenance, are recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the support period.
The majority of our software maintenance agreements provide technical support as well as unspecified software product upgrades and releases when and if made available by us during the term of the support period.
Transactional-Based Revenues

Transactional-based revenue is recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, fees are fixed or determinable, and collection is probable.
Revenues from our credit scoring, data processing, data management and SaaS subscription services are recognized as these services are performed.
Revenues from transactional or unit-based license fees under software license arrangements, credit scoring, data processing, data management and SaaS subscription services agreements are recognized based on minimum contractual amounts or on system usage that exceeds minimum contractual amounts.
Certain of our transactional-based revenues are based on transaction or active account volumes as reported by our clients.
In instances where volumes are reported to us in arrears, we estimate volumes based on preliminary customer transaction information or average actual reported volumes for an immediate trailing period.
Differences between our estimates and actual final volumes reported are recorded in the period in which actual volumes are reported.
We have not experienced significant variances between our estimates and actual reported volumes in the past and anticipate that we will be able to continue to make reasonable estimates in the future.
If for some reason we were unable to reasonably estimate transaction volumes in the future, revenue may be deferred until actual customer data is received, and this could have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations.
Consulting Services

We provide consulting, training, model development and software integration services under both hourly-based time and materials and fixed-priced contracts.
Revenues from these services are generally recognized as the services are performed.
For fixed-price service contracts, we use a proportionate performance model with hours as the input method of attribution to determine progress towards completion, with consideration also given to output measures, such as contract milestones, when applicable.
In such instances, management is required to estimate the total estimated hours of the project.
Adjustments to estimates are made in the period in which the facts requiring such revisions become known and, accordingly, recognized revenues and profits are subject to revisions as the contract progresses to completion.
Estimated losses, if any, are recorded in the period in which current estimates of total contract revenue and contract costs indicate a loss.
If substantive uncertainty related to customer acceptance of services exists, we defer the associated revenue until the contract is completed.
We have not experienced significant variances between our estimates and actual hours in the past and anticipate that we will be able to continue to make reasonable estimates in the future.
If for some reason we are unable to accurately estimate the input measures, revenue would be deferred until the contract is complete, and this could have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations.
Services that are sold in connection with software license arrangements generally qualify for separate accounting from the license element because they do not involve significant production, modification or customization of our products and are not otherwise considered to be essential to the functionality of our software.
In arrangements where the professional services do not qualify for separate accounting from the license element, the combined software license and professional services revenue are recognized based on contract accounting using either the percentage-of-completion or completed-contract method.
Multiple-Deliverable Arrangements including Non-Software


If a deliverable does not have standalone value because the aforementioned criteria are not met, we combine it with the other applicable undelivered item(s) within the arrangement and account for the multiple deliverables as one combined unit of accounting.
For example, for hosting arrangements requiring a highly specialized and unique set of initial implementation and setup services prior to the commencement of hosting services, we typically conclude that these implementation or setup services do not have value to the customer on a stand-alone basis; therefore, we combine them with the hosting services as a combined unit of accounting.
Revenue is recognized upon commencement of our hosting services over the expected life of the customer relationship.
Gross vs. Net Revenue Reporting

We apply accounting guidance to determine whether we report revenue for certain transactions based upon the gross amount billed to the customer, or the net amount retained by us.
In accordance with the guidance we record revenue on a gross basis for sales in which we have acted as the principal and on a net basis for those sales in which we have in substance acted as an agent or broker in the transaction.
Business Combinations

Accounting for our acquisitions requires us to recognize, separately from goodwill, the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed at their acquisition-date fair values.
Goodwill as of the acquisition date is measured as the excess of consideration transferred and the net of the acquisition-date fair values of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed.
While we use our best estimates and assumptions to accurately value assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date, our estimates are inherently uncertain and subject to refinement.
As a result, during the measurement period, which may be up to one year from the acquisition date, we record adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed with the corresponding offset to goodwill.
Upon the conclusion of the measurement period or final determination of the values of assets acquired or liabilities assumed, whichever comes first, any subsequent adjustments are recorded to our consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income.
In addition, uncertain tax positions and tax-related valuation allowances assumed in connection with a business combination are initially estimated as of the acquisition date.
We reevaluate these items quarterly based upon facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date with any adjustments to our preliminary estimates being recorded to goodwill provided that we are within the measurement period.
Subsequent to the measurement period or our final determination of the tax allowance’s or contingency’s estimated value, whichever comes first, changes to these uncertain tax positions and tax-related valuation allowances will affect our provision for income taxes in our consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income and could have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations and financial position.
Historically, there have been no significant changes in our valuation allowances or uncertain tax positions as it relates to business combinations.
We do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood there will be a material change in the future estimates.
Goodwill, Acquisition Intangibles and Other Long-Lived Assets - Impairment Assessment


For fiscal 2017, we elected to proceed directly to the step one quantitative analysis for all of our reporting units, as three years had elapsed since the date of our previous quantitative valuation.
There was a substantial excess of fair value over carrying value for each of our reporting units and we determined goodwill was not impaired for any of our reporting units for fiscal 2017.
Our intangible assets that have finite useful lives and other long-lived assets are assessed for potential impairment when there is evidence that events and circumstances related to our financial performance and economic environment indicate the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable.
When impairment indicators are identified, we test for impairment using undiscounted cash flows.
If such tests indicate impairment, then we measure and record the impairment as the difference between the carrying value of the asset and the fair value of the asset.
Significant management judgment is required in forecasting future operating results used in the preparation of the projected cash flows.
Should different conditions prevail, material write downs of our intangible assets or other long-lived assets could occur.
We review the estimated remaining useful lives of our acquired intangible assets at each reporting period.
A reduction in our estimate of remaining useful lives, if any, could result in increased annual amortization expense in future periods.
As discussed above, while we believe that the assumptions and estimates utilized were appropriate based on the information available to management, different assumptions, judgments and estimates could materially affect our impairment assessments for our goodwill, acquired intangibles with finite lives and other long-lived assets.
Historically, there have been no significant changes in our estimates or assumptions that would have had a material impact for our goodwill or intangible assets impairment assessment.
We believe our projected operating results and cash flows would need to be significantly less favorable to have a material impact on our impairment assessment.
However, based upon our historical experience with operations, we do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood of a significant change in our projections.
Share-Based Compensation

We measure stock-based compensation cost at the grant date based on the fair value of the award and recognize it as expense, net of estimated forfeitures, over the vesting or service period, as applicable, of the stock award (generally three to four years).
We use the Black-Scholes valuation model to determine the fair value of our stock options and the Monte Carlo valuation model to determine the fair value of our market share units.
Our valuation models and generally accepted valuation techniques require us to make assumptions and to apply judgment to determine the fair value of our awards.
These assumptions and judgments include estimating the volatility of our stock price, expected dividend yield, employee turnover rates and employee stock option exercise behaviors.
Historically, there have been no material changes in our estimates or assumptions.
We do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood there will be a material change in the future estimates or assumptions.
Income Taxes

We estimate our income taxes based on the various jurisdictions where we conduct business, which involves significant judgment in determining our income tax provision.
We estimate our current tax liability using currently enacted tax rates and laws and assess temporary differences that result from differing treatments of certain items for tax and accounting purposes.
These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities recorded on our consolidated balance sheets using the currently enacted tax rates and laws that will apply to taxable income for the years in which those tax assets are expected to be realized or settled.
We then assess the likelihood our deferred tax assets will be realized and to the extent we believe realization is not more likely than not, we establish a valuation allowance.
When we establish a valuation allowance or increase this allowance in an accounting period, we record a corresponding income tax expense in our consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income.
In assessing the need for the valuation allowance, we consider future taxable income in the jurisdictions we operate, our ability to carry back tax attributes to prior years, an analysis of our deferred tax assets and the periods over which they will be realizable, and ongoing prudent and feasible tax planning strategies.
An increase in the valuation allowance would have an adverse impact, which could be material, on our income tax provision and net income in the period in which we record the increase.
We have historically had minimal changes in our valuation allowances related to deferred tax assets.
We recognize and measure benefits for uncertain tax positions using a two-step approach.
The first step is to evaluate the tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return by determining if the technical merits of the tax position indicate it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained upon audit, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes.
For tax positions more likely than not of being sustained upon audit, the second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount more than 50% likely of being realized upon settlement.
Significant judgment is required to evaluate uncertain tax positions and they are evaluated on a quarterly basis.
Our evaluations are based upon a number of factors, including changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, correspondence with tax authorities during the course of audits and effective settlement of audit issues.
Changes in the recognition or measurement of uncertain tax positions could result in material increases or decreases in our income tax expense in the period in which we make the change, which could have a material impact on our effective tax rate and operating results.
Historically, settlements related to our unrecognized tax benefits have been minimal.
A description of our accounting policies associated with tax-related contingencies and valuation allowances assumed as part of a business combination is provided under “Business Combinations” above.
Contingencies and Litigation

We are subject to various proceedings, lawsuits and claims relating to products and services, technology, labor, stockholder and other matters.
We are required to assess the likelihood of any adverse outcomes and the potential range of probable losses in these matters.
If the potential loss is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated, we accrue a liability for the estimated loss.
If the potential loss is considered less than probable or the amount cannot be reasonably estimated, disclosure of the matter is considered.
The amount of loss accrual or disclosure, if any, is determined after analysis of each matter, and is subject to adjustment if warranted by new developments or revised strategies.
Due to uncertainties related to these matters, accruals or disclosures are based on the best information available at the time.
Significant judgment is required in both the assessment of likelihood and in the determination of a range of potential losses.
Revisions in the estimates of the potential liabilities could have a material impact on our consolidated financial position or consolidated results of operations.
Historically, there have been no material changes in our estimates or assumptions.
We do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood there will be a material change in the future estimates.
New Accounting Pronouncements

In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standard Update (“ASU”) No.
2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)” (“ASU 2014-09”).
ASU 2014-09 requires an entity to recognize the amount of revenue to which it expects to be entitled for the transfer of promised goods or services to customers.
ASU 2014-09 will replace most existing revenue recognition guidance in U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles when it becomes effective and permits the use of either the retrospective or cumulative effect transition method.
The guidance also requires additional disclosure about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from customer contracts.
In August 2015, the FASB issued ASU No.
2015-14, “Deferral of the Effective Date”, which defers the effective date for ASU 2014-09 by one year.
For public entities, the guidance in ASU 2014-09 will be effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017 (including interim reporting periods within those periods), which means it will be effective for our fiscal year beginning October 1, 2018.
Early adoption is permitted to the original effective date of December 15, 2016 (including interim reporting periods within those periods).
In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-08, “Principal versus Agent Considerations (Reporting Revenue versus Net)”, which clarifies the implementation guidance on principal versus agent considerations in the new revenue recognition standard.
In April 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-10, “Identifying Performance Obligations and Licensing”, which reduces the complexity when applying the guidance for identifying performance obligations and improves the operability and understandability of the license implementation guidance.
In May 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-12 “Narrow-Scope Improvements and Practical Expedients”, which amends the guidance on transition, collectability, noncash consideration and the presentation of sales and other similar taxes.
In December 2016, the FASB further issued ASU No.
2016-20, “Technical Corrections and Improvements to Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers”, which makes minor corrections or minor improvements to the Codification that are not expected to have a significant effect on current accounting practice or create a significant administrative cost to most entities.
The amendments are intended to address implementation issues that were raised by stakeholders and provide additional practical expedients to reduce the cost and complexity of applying the new revenue standard.
These amendments have the same effective date as the new revenue standard.
Preliminarily, we plan to adopt Topic 606 in the first quarter of our fiscal 2019 using the retrospective transition method, and are continuing to evaluate the impact our pending adoption of Topic 606 will have on our consolidated financial statements.
We have established a cross-functional implementation team consisting of representatives across the organization to address the scope of work required to implement the recognition and disclosure requirements under the new standard.
This cross-functional implementation team has developed a project plan, which includes evaluating customer contracts across the organization, developing policies, processes and tools to report financial results, and implementing and evaluating our internal controls over financial reporting that will be necessary under the new standard.
We currently plan to adopt Topic 606 in the first quarter of our fiscal 2019 using the retrospective transition method.
Our ability to adopt Topic 606 using the full retrospective method is dependent on system readiness, and the completion of our analysis of information necessary to restate prior period financial statements.
As we continue to assess the new standard along with industry trends and additional interpretive guidance, we may adjust our implementation plan accordingly.
•Timing of revenue recognition of license revenue on term licenses and transactional revenue on guaranteed minimum fees related to our on-premises software products.
Under the new standard, we expect to recognize revenue when control of the license is transferred to the customer, rather than at the date payments become due and payable or ratably over the term of the contract required under the current standard;

•Presentation of contract balances.
Under the new standard, when we enter into noncancellable contracts that provide unconditional rights to payment from our customers for services that we have not yet completed providing or services we will provide in the near future, we expect to present the unconditional rights as receivables, regardless of whether cash has been received from customers; 

•Required disclosures including information about remaining transaction price and when we expect to recognize revenue; and

•Accounting for commissions under the new standard will result in the deferral of incremental commission costs for obtaining contracts.
We do not currently expect Topic 606 to have a significant effect on the timing of revenue recognition for our maintenance or professional services revenues, or SaaS contracts.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-02, “Leases (Topic 842)” (“ASU 2016-02”), which requires lessees to put most leases on their balance sheets but recognize the expenses on their income statements in a manner similar to current practice.
ASU 2016-02 states that a lessee would recognize a lease liability for the obligation to make lease payments and a right-to-use asset for the right to use the underlying asset for the lease term.
ASU 2016-02 is effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, which means it will be effective for our fiscal year beginning October 1, 2019.
Early adoption is permitted.
We are currently evaluating the timing of our adoption and the impact that the updated standard will have on our consolidated financial statements.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds

Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 




Item 3.
Defaults Upon Senior Securities

Not applicable.
Item 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures

Not applicable.
Item 5.
Other Information

Not applicable.
Item 6.
Exhibits 



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
