Item 4.
Controls and Procedures.
The Company’s management, with the participation of the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, has evaluated the effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”)) as of May 27, 2018, the end of the quarterly fiscal period covered by this quarterly report.
Based on such evaluation, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that, as of the end of such period, the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective in recording, processing, summarizing and reporting, on a timely basis, information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act and were effective in ensuring that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the Company’s management, including the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
There has not been any change in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act) during the fiscal quarter to which this report relates that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.
Legal Proceedings.
No material pending legal proceedings.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors.
There have been no material changes in the risk factors as previously disclosed in the Company’s Form 10-K Annual Report for the fiscal year ended February 25, 2018.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
The following table provides information with respect to shares of the Company’s common stock acquired by the Company during each month included in the Company’s 2019 fiscal year first quarter ended May 27, 2018.
Pursuant to such authorizations, the Company is authorized to purchase its shares from time to time on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions.
Item 3.
Defaults Upon Senior Securities.
None.
Item 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures.
None.
Item 5.
Other Information.
None.
Item 6.
Exhibits.
Certification of principal executive officer pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(a) or 15d-14(a).
Certification of principal financial officer pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(a) or 15d-14(a).
Certification of principal executive officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Certification of principal financial officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
+ Pursuant to Rule 406T of Regulation S-T, the Interactive Data Files on Exhibit 101 hereto are deemed not filed or part of a registration statement or prospectus for purposes of Section 11 or 12 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, are deemed not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and otherwise are not subject to liability under those sections.
SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
