fls.txt
Forward-looking statements by their nature address matters that are, to different degrees, uncertain, such as statements about expected earnings, revenues, growth, liquidity or other financial matters.


item1.txt
The condensed consolidated balance sheets as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the related condensed consolidated statements of income and condensed consolidated statements of comprehensive income for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, and the related condensed consolidated statements of cash flow for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 include the accounts of Amphenol Corporation and its subsidiaries (“Amphenol”, the “Company”, “we”, “our”, or “us”).
These condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017 (the “2017 Annual Report”).
Topic 606 supersedes previous revenue recognition guidance and requires entities to recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for such goods or services.
Under this transition method, the Company’s results in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 are presented under Topic 606, while the comparative results for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 were not retrospectively adjusted, as such results were recognized in accordance with the revenue recognition policy discussed under Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in Note 1 of the Company’s 2017 Annual Report.
The adoption of Topic 606 did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements as of the adoption date and as of and for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018.
While the Company continues to evaluate the impact that ASU 2016-02 will have on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures, the actual impact of the standard will be dependent upon the Company’s lease portfolio at adoption.
The Securities and Exchange Commission has also recently issued several final rules, including but not limited to SEC Final Rule Release No.
Effective January 1, 2018, the Company adopted Topic 606 using the modified retrospective transition method, resulting in accounting policy changes surrounding revenue recognition which replaced certain related policies discussed under Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates (in Item 7) and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (in Note 1) of the Company’s 2017 Annual Report.
The adoption of Topic 606 did not have a material impact on the Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements.
The following is a summary of the Company’s revenue recognition and related accounting policies and disclosures resulting from the adoption of Topic 606.
For each contract, the promise to transfer the control of the products, each of which is individually distinct, is considered to be the identified performance obligation.
Our contracts do not have any significant financing components, as payment terms are generally due net 30 to 120 days after delivery.
Although products are almost always sold at fixed prices, in determining the transaction price, we evaluate whether the price is subject to refund (due to returns) or adjustment (due to volume discounts, rebates, or price concessions) to determine the net consideration we expect to be entitled to.
reserve is recorded as a reduction to revenue in the same period that the related revenue is recorded and is calculated based on an analysis of historical claims and returns over a period of time to appropriately account for current pricing and business trends.
These reserves were not significant upon the adoption of Topic 606 nor were they significant in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of September 30, 2018.
The warranty claim is generally limited to a credit equal to the purchase price or a promise to repair or replace the product for a specified period of time at no additional charge.
The Company accounts for shipping and handling activities related to contracts with customers as a cost to fulfill our promise to transfer control of the related product, including any such costs incurred after the customer has obtained control of the goods.
Contract assets represent unbilled receivables, which generally arise when revenue recognized over time exceed amounts billed to customers.
As the Company’s performance obligations are typically less than one year, these amounts are generally recorded as current in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets within Other current assets or Other accrued expenses as of September 30, 2018.
Contract assets and contract liabilities recorded in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets were not significant both at the date of adoption and as of September 30, 2018.
Capitalized contract costs to obtain a contract or to fulfill a contract that are not accounted for under other existing accounting standards are recorded as either other current or long-term assets on the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, depending on the timing of when the Company expects to recognize the expense, and are generally amortized consistent with the timing of when transfer of control of the related goods occurs.
Such capitalized contract costs were not significant both at the date of adoption and as of September 30, 2018, and the related amortization expense was not significant for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018.
The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those for the Company as a whole and are described herein and in Note 1 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in the Company’s 2017 Annual Report.
On January 24, 2017, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program under which the Company could purchase up to $1,000.0 of the Company’s Common Stock during the two-year period ending January 24, 2019 in accordance with the requirements of Rule 10b-18 of the Exchange Act (the “2017 Stock Repurchase Program”).
On April 24, 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized a new stock repurchase program under which the Company may purchase up to $2,000.0 of the Company’s Common Stock during the three-year period ending April 24, 2021 in accordance with the requirements of Rule 10b-18 of the Exchange Act (the “2018 Stock Repurchase Program”).
During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, the Company repurchased 0.4 million and 3.5 million shares of its common stock for $34.8 and $298.2, respectively, under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program.


item2.txt



item3.txt
The Company does not have any significant concentration with any one counterparty.


item4.txt
The Company’s management, with the participation of the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, has evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures, pursuant to Rules 13a-15(e) or 15d-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), as of the end of the period covered by this report.


part2.txt
Item 1.


