fls.txt
Forward-looking statements by their nature address matters that are, to different degrees, uncertain, such as statements about expected earnings, revenues, growth, liquidity or other financial matters.


item1.txt
In the opinion of management, all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America have been included.
These condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017 (the “2017 Annual Report”).
Topic 606 supersedes previous revenue recognition guidance and requires entities to recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for such goods or services.
Under this transition method, the Company’s results in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income for the three months ended March 31, 2018 are presented under Topic 606, while the comparative results for the three months ended March 31, 2017 were not retrospectively adjusted as such results were recognized in accordance with the revenue recognition policy discussed under Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in Note 1 of the Company’s 2017 Annual Report.
The adoption of Topic 606 did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements as of the adoption date and as of and for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
ASU 2018-02 may be applied either in the period of adoption or on a retrospective basis to any period in which the impacts of the Tax Act are recognized.
The adoption of Topic 606 did not have a material impact on the Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements.
The following is a summary of the Company’s revenue recognition and related accounting policies and disclosures resulting from the adoption of Topic 606.
We allocate the transaction price to each distinct product based on its relative standalone selling price.
Less than 5% of our net sales are recognized over time, as the associated contracts relate to the sale of goods with no alternative use as they are only sold to a single customer and whose underlying contract terms provide the Company with an enforceable right to payment, including a reasonable profit margin, for performance completed to date, in the event of customer termination.
The reserve is recorded as a reduction to revenue in the same period that the related revenue is recorded and is calculated based on an analysis of historical claims and returns over a period of time to appropriately account for current pricing and business trends.
Similarly, sales returns and allowances are recorded based on historical return rates, as a reduction to revenue with a corresponding reduction to cost of sales for the estimated cost of inventory that is expected to be returned.
These reserves were not significant upon the adoption of Topic 606 nor were they significant in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of March 31, 2018.
The warranty claim is generally limited to a credit equal to the purchase price or a promise to repair or replace the product for a specified period of time at no additional charge.
The Company accounts for shipping and handling activities related to contracts with customers as a cost to fulfill our promise to transfer control of the related product, including any such costs incurred after the customer has obtained control of the goods.
The Company records contract assets or contract liabilities depending on the timing of revenue recognition, billings and cash collections on a contract-by-contract basis.
As the Company’s performance obligations are typically less than one year, these amounts are generally recorded as current in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets within Other current assets or Other accrued expenses as of March 31, 2018.
Contract assets and contract liabilities recorded in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets were not significant both at the date of adoption and as of March 31, 2018.
Capitalized contract costs to obtain a contract or to fulfill a contract that are not accounted for under other existing accounting standards are recorded as either other current or long-term assets on the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, depending on the timing of when the Company expects to recognize the expense, and are generally amortized consistent with the timing of when transfer of control of the related goods occurs.
Such capitalized contract costs were not significant both at the date of adoption and as of March 31, 2018, and the related amortization expense was not significant for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those for the Company as a whole and are described in Note 1 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in the Company’s 2017 Annual Report.
Earnings per share is determined after the impact of the noncontrolling interests’ share in net income of the Company.
On January 24, 2017, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program under which the Company could purchase up to $1,000.0 of the Company’s Common Stock during the two-year period ending January 24, 2019 in accordance with the requirements of Rule 10b-18 of the Exchange Act (the “2017 Stock Repurchase Program”).
During the three months ended March 31, 2018, the Company repurchased 4.2 million shares of its common stock for $382.0.
On April 24, 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized a new stock repurchase program under which the Company may purchase up to $2,000.0 of the Company’s Common Stock during the three-year period ending April 24, 2021 in accordance with the requirements of Rule 10b-18 of the Exchange Act (the “2018 Stock Repurchase Program”).
As of April 30, 2018, the Company repurchased approximately 0.7 million shares of its common stock for $55.5 under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program.


item2.txt



item3.txt
The Company may borrow under its Revolving Credit Facility and Commercial Paper Program.


item4.txt
The Company’s management, with the participation of the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, has evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures, pursuant to Rules 13a-15(e) or 15d-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), as of the end of the period covered by this report.


part2.txt
Item 1.


