fls.txt



item1.txt
As a result, the financial statements are not comparable to the prior period presented.
As a result, the financial statements are not comparable to the prior period presented.
As a result, the financial statements are not comparable to the prior period presented.
As a result, the financial statements are not comparable to the prior period presented.
The Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), as defined in Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 270, for interim financial information and in accordance with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation S-X.
At June 30, 2018 and March 31, 2018, the total amount of restricted cash included in “Other noncurrent assets, net” in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets was approximately $1 million and $2 million, respectively.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, with amendments in 2015, 2016 and 2017, creating new ASC Topic 606 (“Topic 606”) that replaces most existing revenue recognition guidance in GAAP.
As a result of adopting Topic 606, the Company now recognizes revenue for the license component of all its on-premise software arrangements at the point-in-time control of the software license is transferred to the customer, rather than ratably over the term of the contract.
The adoption of this standard did not have a material effect on the Company’s consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
2016-02 (“ASU 2016-02”), Leases (Topic 842), with amendments in 2018, requiring a lessee to recognize assets and liabilities on its consolidated balance sheet for leases with accounting lease terms of more than 12 months.
ASU 2016-02 will be effective for the Company’s first quarter of fiscal year 2020 and requires the modified retrospective method of adoption, with an option to recognize the cumulative effect of applying the new standard as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings.
Although the Company is currently evaluating the effect that ASU 2016-02 will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures, the Company currently expects that most of its operating lease commitments will be subject to the new standard and recognized as operating lease liabilities and right-of-use assets upon adoption.
ASU 2017-04 will be effective for the Company’s first quarter of fiscal year 2021 and requires a prospective method of adoption.


item2.txt
We do not intend to update these forward-looking statements, except as otherwise required by law.
This MD&A is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our financial statements and the accompanying notes to the financial statements.
References in this Form 10-Q to fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018 are to our fiscal years ending on March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
•Our Services segment helps customers reach their information technology (“IT”) and business goals primarily by enabling the rapid implementation and adoption of our software solutions.
Our segments strengthen each other in several ways.
Our customers benefit from the ability of CA solutions to span their entire infrastructure stack, across mobile, cloud, distributed, and mainframe.
This is critical as customers focus on their end users’ experiences on their apps and the underlying transactions that traverse their heterogeneous environments.
We are able to bidirectionally leverage our core strengths and development efforts in our products within the Enterprise Solutions segment to bring new innovations to the Mainframe Solutions segment and vice versa.
Our Services segment leverages our expertise across our Mainframe Solutions and Enterprise Solutions segments and helps customers deploy and maintain our solutions.
•Agile Planning helps customers transform their development practices from traditional to modern agile methodologies.
•Continuous Delivery optimizes the application development processes by automating the deployment of applications across all stages of their lifecycles.
Our solutions enable the development, testing and release teams to work concurrently and continuously to remove the excess overhead and delays that come with traditional software development.
•Automation solutions help customers transform business processes.
Our solution is hosted on a unified application security testing platform and integrates into existing development toolchains.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Under the supervision and with the participation of the Company’s management, including the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, the Company has evaluated the effectiveness of its disclosure controls and procedures, as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“Exchange Act”).


part2.txt
Item 1.


