fls.txt



item1.txt
The Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), as defined in Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 270, for interim financial information and in accordance with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation S-X.
At September 30, 2018 and March 31, 2018, the total amount of restricted cash included in “Other noncurrent assets, net” in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets was approximately $1 million and $2 million, respectively.
In May 2014, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, with amendments in 2015, 2016 and 2017, creating new ASC Topic 606 (“Topic 606”) that replaces most existing revenue recognition guidance in GAAP.
As a result of adopting Topic 606, the Company now recognizes revenue for the license component of all its on-premise software arrangements at the point-in-time control of the software license is transferred to the customer, rather than ratably over the term of the contract.
The adoption of this standard did not have a material effect on the Company’s consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
2016-02 (“ASU 2016-02”), Leases (Topic 842), with amendments in 2018, requiring a lessee to recognize assets and liabilities on its consolidated balance sheet for leases with accounting lease terms of more than 12 months.
ASU 2016-02 will replace most existing lease accounting guidance in GAAP when it becomes effective.
ASU 2016-02 will be effective for the Company in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 and requires the modified retrospective method of adoption, with an option to recognize the cumulative effect of applying the new standard as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings.
Although the Company is currently evaluating the effect that ASU 2016-02 will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures, the Company currently expects that most of its operating lease commitments will be subject to the new standard and recognized as operating lease liabilities and right-of-use assets upon adoption.
Upon adoption of this new standard, goodwill impairments will be the amount by which a reporting unit's carrying value exceeds its fair value.
ASU 2017-04 will be effective for the Company in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021 and requires a prospective method of adoption.
ASU 2017-12 will be effective for the Company in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 and requires a prospective method of adoption for the amended presentation and disclosure guidance.


item2.txt
We do not intend to update these forward-looking statements, except as otherwise required by law.
Our solutions enable customers to plan, develop, automate, manage and secure applications across mobile, cloud, distributed and mainframe platforms.
We believe this journey, broadly referred to as digital transformation, is fueled by software.
•Our Services segment helps customers reach their information technology (“IT”) and business goals primarily by enabling the rapid implementation and adoption of our software solutions.
Our customers benefit from the ability of CA solutions to span their entire infrastructure stack, across mobile, cloud, distributed, and mainframe.
This is critical as customers focus on their end users’ experiences on their apps and the underlying transactions that traverse their heterogeneous environments.
We are able to bidirectionally leverage our core strengths and development efforts in our products within the Enterprise Solutions segment to bring new innovations to the Mainframe Solutions segment and vice versa.
Our Services segment leverages our expertise across our Mainframe Solutions and Enterprise Solutions segments and helps customers deploy and maintain our solutions.
•Agile Planning helps customers transform their development practices from traditional to modern agile methodologies.
Agile development utilizes an iterative work cadence with a feedback loop that decreases time-to-market, increases product quality and, most importantly, maintains a focus on generating rapid business value.
•Continuous Delivery optimizes the application development processes by automating the deployment of applications across all stages of their lifecycles.
•Automation solutions help customers transform business processes.
We also focus on organically developing nascent technologies from companies we have acquired to provide them with the necessary interoperability, resilience and security to operate at scale in the large, heterogeneous IT environments utilized by our customers.
Refer to Note 2, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers,” and Note 3, “Impact of Adopting Topic 606,” in the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the changes in our policies for revenue recognition and commissions, and the required disclosures related to the impact of adopting Topic 606.
•Under both Topic 606 and Topic 605, operating expenses decreased primarily due to a decrease in amortization of capitalized software costs.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Under the supervision and with the participation of the Company’s management, including the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, the Company has evaluated the effectiveness of its disclosure controls and procedures, as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“Exchange Act”).


part2.txt
Item 1.


