fls.txt



item1.txt
We have prepared the accompanying financial data as of October 26, 2019 and for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2019, without audit, pursuant to the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (“GAAP”) have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations.
However, we believe that the disclosures are adequate to make the information presented not misleading.
The noncontrolling interests attributed to these investments, if any, are presented as a separate component from our equity in the equity section of the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
We have evaluated subsequent events through the date that the financial statements were issued.
Leases In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 842, Leases, a new standard requiring lessees to recognize operating and finance lease liabilities on the balance sheet, as well as corresponding right-of-use (ROU) assets.
This standard also made some changes to lessor accounting and aligns key aspects of the lessor accounting model with the revenue recognition standard.
ASC 842 requires adoption using the modified retrospective approach, with the option of applying the requirements of the standard either i) retrospectively to each prior comparative reporting period presented, or ii) retrospectively at the beginning of the period of adoption.
We adopted this standard at the beginning of our first quarter of fiscal 2020 and applied it at the beginning of the period of adoption and did not restate prior periods.
We use incremental borrowing rates based on information available at the commencement date to determine the present value of our lease payments.
As a lessor, we determine if an arrangement is a lease at inception.
We provide leasing arrangements for our equipment to certain qualified customers.
Residual value estimates are reviewed on a periodic basis and other-than-temporary declines are expensed in the period they occur.
We are currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
We determine whether arrangements are distinct based on whether the customer can benefit from the product or service on its own or together with other resources that are readily available and whether our commitment to transfer the product or service to the customer is separately identifiable from other obligations in the contract.


item2.txt
We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason.
Cisco designs and sells a broad range of technologies that have been powering the Internet since 1984.
Across networking, security, collaboration, applications and the cloud, we are integrating intent-based technologies to help our customers manage more users, devices and things connecting to their networks.
This will enable us to provide customers with a highly secure, intelligent platform for their digital business.
While the overall environment remains uncertain, we continue to aggressively invest in priority areas with the objective of driving profitable growth over the long term.
Within total revenue, product revenue was flat and service revenue increased by 3%.
In the second quarter of fiscal 2019 we completed the sale of our SPVSS business.


item3.txt
Item 3.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Available-for-Sale Debt Investments We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities.


item4.txt



part2.txt
The descriptions below include any material changes to and supersede the description of the risk factors affecting our business previously disclosed in “Part I, Item 1A.
Risk Factors” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 27, 2019.
Instability in the global credit markets, the impact of uncertainty regarding global central bank monetary policy, the instability in the geopolitical environment in many parts of the world including as a result of the pending United Kingdom “Brexit” withdrawal from the European Union, the current economic challenges in China, including global economic ramifications of Chinese economic difficulties, and other disruptions may continue to put pressure on global economic conditions.
Our operating results in one or more segments may also be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions particularly germane to that segment or to particular customer markets within that segment.
In addition, reports of certain intelligence gathering methods of the U.S. government could affect customers’ perception of the products of IT companies which design and manufacture products in the United States.
As a result of a variety of factors discussed in this report, our revenue for a particular quarter is difficult to predict, especially in light of a challenging and inconsistent global macroeconomic environment and related market uncertainty.
Our revenue may grow at a slower rate than in past periods or decline as it did in certain prior periods on a year-over-year basis.


