fls.txt



item1.txt
We have prepared the accompanying financial data as of October 27, 2018 and for the three months ended October 27, 2018 and October 28, 2017, without audit, pursuant to the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("GAAP") have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations.
However, we believe that the disclosures are adequate to make the information presented not misleading.
The noncontrolling interests attributed to these investments, if any, are presented as a separate component from our equity in the equity section of the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
We have evaluated subsequent events through the date that the financial statements were issued.
Revenue Recognition In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, a new accounting standard related to revenue recognition.
ASC 606 supersedes nearly all U.S. GAAP on revenue recognition and eliminated industry-specific guidance.
The underlying principle of ASC 606 is to recognize revenue when a customer obtains control of promised goods or services at an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received in exchange for those goods or services.
We have implemented new accounting policies, systems, processes, and internal controls necessary to support the requirements of ASC 606.
We determine whether arrangements are distinct based on whether the customer can benefit from the product or service on its own or together with other resources that are readily available and whether our commitment to transfer the product or service to the customer is separately identifiable from other obligations in the contract.
We classify our hardware, perpetual software licenses, and software-as-a-service (SaaS) as distinct performance obligations.
Term software licenses represent multiple obligations, which include software licenses and software maintenance.
Transfer of control occurs once the customer has the contractual right to use the product, generally upon shipment or once delivery and risk of loss has transferred to the customer.
On our product sales, we record consideration from shipping and handling on a gross basis within net product sales.
SSP is estimated for each distinct performance obligation and judgment may be required in their determination.


item2.txt
We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason.
Cisco designs and sells a broad range of technologies that have been powering the Internet since 1984.
Across networking, security, collaboration, applications and the cloud, our evolving intent-based technologies are constantly learning and adapting to provide customers with a highly secure, intelligent platform for their digital business.
Notwithstanding the first quarter fiscal 2019 results, we continue to operate in a challenging and highly competitive environment.
While the overall environment remains uncertain, we continue to aggressively invest in priority areas with the objective of driving profitable growth over the long term.
Total gross margin increased by 1.1 percentage points, driven primarily by productivity improvements and the $122 million legal and indemnification settlement charge recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, partially offset by unfavorable impacts from pricing.
The effective tax rate decreased 10.0 percentage points.


item3.txt
We may utilize derivative instruments designated as hedging instruments to achieve our investment objectives.


item4.txt



part2.txt
The descriptions below include any material changes to and supersede the description of the risk factors affecting our business previously disclosed in “Part I, Item 1A.
Risk Factors” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 28, 2018.
The global macroeconomic environment has been challenging and inconsistent.
Instability in the global credit markets, the impact of uncertainty regarding global central bank monetary policy, the instability in the geopolitical environment in many parts of the world including as a result of the recent United Kingdom “Brexit” referendum to withdraw from the European Union, the current economic challenges in China, including global economic ramifications of Chinese economic difficulties, and other disruptions may continue to put pressure on global economic conditions.
Our operating results in one or more segments may also be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions particularly germane to that segment or to particular customer markets within that segment.
For example, emerging countries in the aggregate experienced a decline in product orders in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, in fiscal 2017 and in certain prior periods.
In addition, reports of certain intelligence gathering methods of the U.S. government could affect customers’ perception of the products of IT companies which design and manufacture products in the United States.


