We have prepared the accompanying financial data as of January 26, 2019 and for the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018, without audit, pursuant to the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("GAAP") have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations.
The noncontrolling interests attributed to these investments, if any, are presented as a separate component from our equity in the equity section of the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
We have evaluated subsequent events through the date that the financial statements were issued.
Revenue Recognition In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, a new accounting standard related to revenue recognition.
ASC 606 supersedes nearly all U.S. GAAP on revenue recognition and eliminated industry-specific guidance.
The underlying principle of ASC 606 is to recognize revenue when a customer obtains control of promised goods or services at an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received in exchange for those goods or services.
We have implemented new accounting policies, systems, processes, and internal controls necessary to support the requirements of ASC 606.
We classify our hardware, perpetual software licenses, and software-as-a-service (SaaS) as distinct performance obligations.
Transfer of control occurs once the customer has the contractual right to use the product, generally upon shipment or once delivery and risk of loss has transferred to the customer.We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason.
NM - Not meaningful; we recognized a net loss for the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2018 related to the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.
While the overall environment remains uncertain, we continue to aggressively invest in priority areas with the objective of driving profitable growth over the long term.
These increases reflect broad strength across several countries within these segments.
From a customer market standpoint, we experienced product revenue growth in the public sector, enterprise and commercial markets, partially offset by a product revenue decline in the service provider market.The descriptions below include any material changes to and supersede the description of the risk factors affecting our business previously disclosed in “Part I, Item 1A.
Risk Factors” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 28, 2018.
Instability in the global credit markets, the impact of uncertainty regarding global central bank monetary policy, the instability in the geopolitical environment in many parts of the world including as a result of the pending United Kingdom “Brexit” withdrawal from the European Union, the current economic challenges in China, including global economic ramifications of Chinese economic difficulties, and other disruptions may continue to put pressure on global economic conditions.
In addition, reports of certain intelligence gathering methods of the U.S. government could affect customers’ perception of the products of IT companies which design and manufacture products in the United States.