fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying financial data as of April 28, 2018 and for the three and nine months ended April 28, 2018 and April 29, 2017 has been prepared by the Company, without audit, pursuant to the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("GAAP") have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations.
The July 29, 2017 Consolidated Balance Sheet was derived from audited financial statements, but does not include all disclosures required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
However, the Company believes that the disclosures are adequate to make the information presented not misleading.
The Company consolidates its investments in a venture fund managed by SOFTBANK Corp. and its affiliates (“SOFTBANK”) as this is a variable interest entity and the Company is the primary beneficiary.
The noncontrolling interests attributed to SOFTBANK are presented as a separate component from the Company’s equity in the equity section of the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Adoption of this standard resulted in a decrease of $45 million to retained earnings due to the reclassification from AOCI to retained earnings.
Revenue Recognition In May 2014, the FASB issued a new accounting standard related to revenue recognition.
The new standard will supersede nearly all U.S. GAAP on revenue recognition and eliminate industry-specific guidance.
The underlying principle of the new standard is to recognize revenue when a customer obtains control of promised goods or services at an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received in exchange for those goods or services.
Cisco is on schedule in establishing new accounting policies, implementing systems and processes (including more extensive use of estimates), and internal controls necessary to support the requirements of the new standard.
Cisco has completed its preliminary assessment of the financial statement impact of the new standard, as discussed below, and will continue to update that assessment as more information becomes available.
Currently, these costs are expensed as incurred.
Cisco will be required to record cumulative effect adjustments to retained earnings (net of tax) upon adopting the new standard at the beginning of fiscal 2019.


item2.txt
We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason.
Cisco designs and sells a broad range of technologies that have been powering the Internet since 1984.
Across networking, security, collaboration and the cloud, our evolving intent-based technologies are constantly learning and adapting to provide customers with a highly secure, intelligent platform for their digital business.
While the overall environment remains uncertain, we continue to aggressively invest in priority areas with the objective of driving profitable growth over the long term.
These increases reflect broad strength across several countries within these segments.
Product revenue in the service provider market continued to decline with ongoing uncertainty in that area.
Total revenue increased 2%, with product revenue increasing 1% and service revenue increasing 2%.
Total gross margin decreased by 1.0 percentage points due to unfavorable impacts from pricing and a $127 million legal and indemnification settlement charge, partially offset by productivity benefits and favorable product mix.


item3.txt
We may utilize derivative instruments designated as hedging instruments to achieve our investment objectives.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Brazil Brazilian authorities have investigated our Brazilian subsidiary and certain of its former employees, as well as a Brazilian importer of our products, and its affiliates and employees, relating to alleged evasion of import taxes and alleged improper transactions involving the subsidiary and the importer.
The asserted claims by Brazilian federal tax authorities that remain are for calendar years 2003 through 2007, and the asserted claims by the tax authorities from the state of Sao Paulo are for calendar years 2005 through 2007.
SSL SSL Services, LLC (“SSL”) has asserted claims for patent infringement against us in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas.
On August 18, 2015, we petitioned the Patent Trial and Appeal Board (“PTAB”) of the United States Patent and Trademark Office to review whether the patent SSL has asserted against us is valid over prior art.
On February 23, 2016, a PTAB multi-judge panel found a reasonable likelihood that we would prevail in showing that SSL’s patent claims are unpatentable and instituted proceedings.
Straight Path On September 24, 2014, Straight Path IP Group, Inc. (“Straight Path”) asserted patent infringement claims against us in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California, accusing our 9971 IP Phone, Unified Communications Manager working in conjunction with 9971 IP Phones, and Video Communication Server products of infringement.
November 13, 2017, the Court granted our motion for summary judgment of non-infringement, thereby dismissing Straight Path's claims against us and cancelling a trial which had been set for March 12, 2018.


