fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying financial data as of January 27, 2018 and for the three and six months ended January 27, 2018 and January 28, 2017 has been prepared by the Company, without audit, pursuant to the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("GAAP") have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations.
However, the Company believes that the disclosures are adequate to make the information presented not misleading.
The Company consolidates its investments in a venture fund managed by SOFTBANK Corp. and its affiliates (“SOFTBANK”) as this is a variable interest entity and the Company is the primary beneficiary.
The noncontrolling interests attributed to SOFTBANK are presented as a separate component from the Company’s equity in the equity section of the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Certain reclassifications have been made to the amounts in prior periods in order to conform to the current period’s presentation.
This resulted in an overall decrease in the effective tax rate for the six months ended January 27, 2018 due to recognition of excess tax benefits from share-based compensation.
Revenue Recognition In May 2014, the FASB issued a new accounting standard related to revenue recognition.
The new standard will supersede nearly all U.S. GAAP on revenue recognition and eliminate industry-specific guidance.
The underlying principle of the new standard is to recognize revenue when a customer obtains control of promised goods or services at an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received in exchange for those goods or services.
Cisco is on schedule in establishing new accounting policies, implementing systems and processes (including more extensive use of estimates), and internal controls necessary to support the requirements of the new standard.
assessment of the financial statement impact of the new standard, as discussed below, and will continue to update that assessment as more information becomes available.
Currently, these costs are expensed as incurred.
Lastly, an adjustment will be recorded to establish an asset and increase retained earnings related to the requirement to capitalize incremental contract acquisition costs for customer contracts.


item2.txt
We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason.
Cisco designs and sells a broad range of technologies that have been powering the Internet since 1984.
Across networking, security, collaboration and the cloud, our evolving intent-based technologies are constantly learning and adapting to provide customers with a highly secure, intelligent platform for their digital business.
While the overall environment remains uncertain, we continue to aggressively invest in priority areas with the objective of driving profitable growth over the long term.
We had a net loss of $8.8 billion and a net loss per share of $1.78, primarily due to the $11.1 billion provisional tax expense related to the Tax Act, comprised of $9.0 billion U.S. transition tax, $1.2 billion of foreign withholding tax, and $0.9 billion of net deferred tax assets re-measurement.
From a customer market standpoint, we experienced product revenue growth in the public sector and commercial markets, partially offset by a product revenue decline in the service provider market.
Product revenue in the enterprise market was flat.
From a product category perspective, product revenue increased 3% led by solid product revenue growth in Security and Applications, which each grew by 6%.


item3.txt
Item 3.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Fixed Income Securities We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Brazil Brazilian authorities have investigated our Brazilian subsidiary and certain of its former employees, as well as a Brazilian importer of our products, and its affiliates and employees, relating to alleged evasion of import taxes and alleged improper transactions involving the subsidiary and the importer.
The asserted claims by Brazilian federal tax authorities that remain are for calendar years 2003 through 2007, and the asserted claims by the tax authorities from the state of Sao Paulo are for calendar years 2005 through 2007.
SSL alleges that our AnyConnect products that include Virtual Private Networking functions infringed a U.S. patent owned by SSL.
SSL seeks money damages from us.
On August 18, 2015, we petitioned the Patent Trial and Appeal Board (“PTAB”) of the United States Patent and Trademark Office to review whether the patent SSL has asserted against us is valid over prior art.
On February 23, 2016, a PTAB multi-judge panel found a reasonable likelihood that we would prevail in showing that SSL’s patent claims are unpatentable and instituted proceedings.
We believe we have strong arguments that our products do not infringe and the patent is invalid.


