fls.txt
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 ("Securities Act") and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ("Exchange Act").


part2.txt
The failure to successfully integrate the business and operations of Polycom in the expected time frame and achieve the expected synergies may adversely affect the business and financial results of the combined company.
We have incurred significant indebtedness to finance the acquisition of Polycom, which will decrease our business flexibility and increase borrowing costs, which may adversely affect our operations and financial results.
The financial and other covenants in the Credit Agreement and our increased indebtedness and higher debt-to-equity ratio will have the effect, among other things, of reducing our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions and increasing borrowing costs, and may adversely affect our operations and financial results.
In addition, our failure to comply with the covenants could result in a default under the Credit Agreement and our other debt, which could permit the holders to accelerate such debt or demand payment in exchange for a waiver of such default.
The current debt under the Credit Agreement has a floating interest rate that is based on variable and unpredictable U.S. and international economic risks and uncertainties and an increase in interest rates may negatively impact our financial results.
In addition, the mandatory debt repayment schedule of the Credit Agreement and the maturity our existing 5.50% Senior Notes in 2023 may negatively impact our cash position and further reduce our financial flexibility.
The integration of the combined companies may result in significant expenses and accounting charges that adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.
We have significant manufacturing, assembly and packaging operations in Mexico and rely on third party manufacturers located outside of U.S., and a significant amount of our revenues are generated internationally, each of which subjects our business to risks of international operations.
We own and operate a manufacturing facility in Tijuana, Mexico, which is responsible for assembly of a significant portion of our Enterprise products from materials and components sourced from various suppliers in Asia and North America, and other suppliers.
Additionally, our Tijuana facility is primarily responsible for the packaging and final processing of most of our Consumer products after manufacturing and assembly by third parties, many of which are located in Asia, China in particular.
•Compliance with anti-bribery laws, including the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the United Kingdom's Bribery Act. Additionally, recently announced tariffs by the United States will, if implemented as currently proposed, levy tariffs on products, including those incorporating Bluetooth technology that are manufactured in China.
Our largest stockholder has the means to influence our business and operations, its interests may differ from those of our other stockholders, and sales by that shareholder into the market could impact the price of our common stock.
As a consequence of our acquisition of Polycom, Inc. on July 2, 2018, we issued shares of our common stock to Triangle Private Holdings II, LLC ("Triangle"), an entity indirectly controlled by Siris Capital Group, LLC ("Siris"), equivalent to approximately 16% of our issued and outstanding shares, which made Triangle our largest single stockholder.
The average daily trading volume of our stock is limited, and any resale of the shares held by Triangle will increase the number of shares of our common stock available for public trading, which may depress the price of our stock.
Additionally, the sale by Triangle or their successors of all or a substantial portion of the shares in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur, could impact the price of our common stock.
On July 27, 2017 the Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase 1,000,000 shares of our common stock from time to time in the market or in privately negotiated repurchases as determined by management.


