MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF   

          FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    

Forward-Looking Statements 

This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains “forward-looking” information within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
All statements other than statements of historical fact, including statements regarding industry prospects and future results of operations or financial position, made in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are forward-looking.
The forward-looking information may include, among other information, statements concerning our outlook for fiscal year 2019, overall volume and pricing trends, cost reduction and acquisition strategies and their anticipated results, and expectations for research and development and capital expenditures.
There may also be other statements of expectations, beliefs, future plans and strategies, anticipated events or trends, and similar expressions concerning matters that are not historical facts.
Forward-looking statements reflect management’s expectations and are inherently uncertain.
The forward-looking information and statements in this report are subject to risks and uncertainties, including those discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by the information or statements herein.
Forward-looking statements should be read in context with, and with the understanding of, the various other disclosures concerning the Company and its business made elsewhere in this quarterly report as well as other public reports filed by the Company with the SEC.
You should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results or developments.
Any forward-looking statements by the Company are intended to speak only as of the date thereof.
We do not intend to update or revise any forward-looking statement contained in this quarterly report to reflect new events or circumstances unless and to the extent required by applicable law.
All forward-looking statements contained in this quarterly report constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 21E of the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and, to the extent it may be applicable by way of incorporation of statements contained in this quarterly report by reference or otherwise, Section 27A of the United States Securities Act of 1933, each of which establishes a safe-harbor from private actions for forward-looking statements as defined in those statutes.
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 

“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” is based upon our unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto contained in this Form 10-Q, which have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.
The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reported periods.
On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates and judgments, including those related to investment securities, revenue recognition, inventories, property and equipment, goodwill, intangible assets, income taxes, and contingencies.
Management bases its estimates and judgments on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
