On May 8, 2018, we announced that we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger Agreement”), dated as of May 7, 2018, by and among Cohu, Xavier Acquisition Corporation, a Delaware corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cohu (“Merger Sub”) and Xcerra Corporation, a Massachusetts corporation (“Xcerra”).
The Merger cannot be completed until the conditions are satisfied or waived, including receipt of our stockholders’ approval of the issuance of additional shares of Cohu common stock as consideration in the Merger, receipt of Xcerra’s stockholders’ approval of the Merger, receipt of required antitrust and other regulatory approvals, and other customary closing conditions.
Whether or not we complete the Merger, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant transaction costs in connection with the Merger, including payment of certain fees and expenses incurred in connection with the Merger and related financing transactions.
These could adversely affect our results of operations in the period in which such expenses are recorded or our cash flow in the period in which any related costs are actually paid.
Furthermore, we may incur material restructuring charges in connection with the Merger, which may adversely affect our operating results following the closing of the Merger in which such expenses are recorded or our cash flow in the period in which any related costs are actually paid.
Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the Merger will depend, to a large extent, on our ability to integrate Xcerra, which is a complex, costly and time-consuming process.
The announcement and pendency of the Merger could cause disruptions and create uncertainty surrounding our business and affect our relationships with our customers and employees.This Form 10-Q contains certain forward-looking statements including expectations of market conditions, challenges and plans, within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and is subject to the Safe Harbor provisions created by that statute.
Cohu is a leading supplier of semiconductor test and inspection handlers, micro-electro mechanical system (MEMS) test modules, test contactors and thermal subsystems used by global semiconductor manufacturers and test subcontractors.
We expect that the semiconductor equipment industry will continue to be seasonal in part because consumer electronics, automotive and mobility, the principal end markets for integrated circuits, are highly dynamic industries and demand has traditionally fluctuated with global consumer spending.It should be noted that any system of controls, however well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the system are met.
On May 8, 2018, we announced that we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger Agreement”), dated as of May 7, 2018, by and among Cohu, Xavier Acquisition Corporation, a Delaware corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cohu (“Merger Sub”) and Xcerra Corporation, a Massachusetts corporation (“Xcerra”).
Under the terms of the Merger Agreement, the acquisition of Xcerra will be accomplished through a merger of Merger Sub with and into Xcerra (the “Merger”), with Xcerra surviving the Merger as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cohu.
The Merger cannot be completed until the conditions are satisfied or waived, including receipt of our stockholders’ approval of the issuance of additional shares of Cohu common stock as consideration in the Merger, receipt of Xcerra’s stockholders’ approval of the Merger, receipt of required antitrust and other regulatory approvals, and other customary closing conditions.
Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the Merger will depend, to a large extent, on our ability to integrate Xcerra, which is a complex, costly and time-consuming process.
If any conditions or changes to the proposed structure of the Merger are required to obtain these regulatory approvals, they may have the effect of jeopardizing or delaying completion of the Merger or reducing the anticipated benefits of the Merger.
The Merger will be financed in part by the issuance of additional shares of our common stock to shareholders of Xcerra, comprising approximately 30% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock, based on the number of issued and outstanding shares of our common stock on May 7, 2018 and Xcerra’s estimated fully diluted shares of common stock outstanding on May 7, 2018.
These issuances of additional shares of our common stock will dilute your ownership interest in our company, and you will have a reduced ownership and voting interest in our company following the completion of the Merger.