Item 3.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 

Interest Rate Risk 

Interest on borrowings on our credit facilities are variable and tied to prevailing domestic and foreign interest rates.
At July 31, 2019, we had no borrowings outstanding under any of our credit facilities.
Foreign Currency Exchange Risk 

In the nine months of fiscal 2019, we derived approximately 63% of our revenues from customers located outside of the Americas.
All of our computerized machine tools and computer control systems, as well as certain proprietary service parts, are sourced by our U.S.-based engineering and manufacturing division and re-invoiced to our foreign sales and service subsidiaries, primarily in their functional currencies.
Our products primarily are sourced from foreign suppliers or built to our specifications by either our wholly-owned subsidiaries in Taiwan, the U.S., Italy and China or an affiliated contract manufacturer in Taiwan.
Our purchases are predominantly in foreign currencies and in some cases our arrangements with these suppliers include foreign currency risk sharing agreements, which reduce (but do not eliminate) the effects of currency fluctuations on product costs.
The predominant portion of the exchange rate risk associated with our product purchases relates to the New Taiwan Dollar and the Euro.
We enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts from time to time to hedge the cash flow risk related to forecasted inter-company sales and purchases denominated in, or based on, foreign currencies (primarily the Euro, Pound Sterling, and New Taiwan Dollar).
We also enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to protect against the effects of foreign currency fluctuations on receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies.
We also enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to hedge a portion of our net investment denominated in Euros.
We do not speculate in the financial markets and, therefore, do not enter into these contracts for trading purposes.
