item1.txt
The accompanying financial information should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto contained in Teradyne’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on March 1, 2018, for the year ended December 31, 2017.
In accordance with ASC 606, Teradyne recognizes revenues, when or as control is transferred to a customer.
Teradyne considers the amount stated on the face of the purchase order to be the transaction price.
Teradyne does not have material variable consideration which could impact the stated purchase price agreed to by Teradyne and the customer.
Teradyne uses standalone transactions when available to value each performance obligation.
If standalone transactions are not available, Teradyne will estimate the standalone selling price through market assessments or cost plus a reasonable margin analysis.
In order to determine the appropriate timing for revenue recognition, Teradyne first determines if the transaction meets any of three criteria for over time recognition.
If the transaction meets the criteria for over time recognition, Teradyne recognizes revenue as the good or service is delivered.
Teradyne uses input variables such as hours or months utilized or costs incurred to determine the amount of revenue to recognize in a given period.
For transactions which do not meet the criteria for over time recognition, Teradyne will recognize revenue at a point in time based on an assessment of the five criteria for transfer of control.
Teradyne has concluded that revenue should be recognized when shipped or delivered based on contractual terms.
Typically acceptance of Teradyne’s products and services is a formality as Teradyne delivers similar systems, instruments and robots to standard specifications.
In cases where acceptance is not deemed a formality, Teradyne will defer revenue recognition until customer acceptance.
Revenue recognized in accordance with ASC 606 was $483.2 million for the period ended April 1, 2018.
Teradyne also recognized $4.3 million in revenue on leases of Teradyne systems which are accounted for outside of ASC 606.
The relative standalone selling price of the extended warranty is recognized ratably over the course of the extended warranty based on months completed.
Teradyne sells training and applications support to customers either in standalone transactions or included with system purchases.
Training and applications support included in system orders are valued based on their standalone selling price and all training and applications support is recognized over time as the customer receives and consumes the benefit associated with each.
Teradyne provides support services for certain systems and robots outside of warranty.


item2.txt
The total purchase price for Universal Robots was approximately $315 million, which included cash paid of approximately $284 million and $32 million in fair value of contingent consideration payable upon achievement of revenue and earnings targets through 2018.
The contingent consideration related to revenue for the period from July 1, 2015 to December 31, 2017 in the amount of $24.6 million was paid in March 2018.
On April 25, 2018, we acquired Mobile Industrial Robots ApS (“MiR”), a Danish limited liability company, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $148 million net of cash acquired, and up to an additional approximately $124 million payable upon the achievement of certain revenue and profit performance targets through 2020.
The retrospective adoption of this standard increased the first quarter of 2017 income from operations by $0.4 million due to the removal of the non-service component of pension expense and decreased other (income) expense, net by the same amount with zero impact to net income.
The increase in Semiconductor Test revenues of $17.8 million, or 5.0%, was driven primarily by increased sales in the flash memory test segment, partially offset by a decrease in image sensor and microcontroller sales.
The increase in Industrial Automation revenues of $12.5 million, or 34.4%, was due to higher demand for collaborative robotic arms.
The increase in System Test revenues of $3.2 million, or 8.0%, was primarily due to higher sales in Storage Test of system level testers.
The decrease in Wireless Test revenues of $2.8 million, or 11.1%, was primarily due to lower demand for connectivity and cellular test systems.
Gross profit as a percent of revenue decreased by 2.6 points, as a result of a decrease related to product mix primarily in Semiconductor Test, partially offset by an increase due to higher sales primarily in Semiconductor Test and Industrial Automation.


part2.txt
In January 2018, our Board of Directors cancelled the December 2016 stock repurchase program and authorized a new stock repurchase program for up to $1.5 billion of common stock.


