item1.txt
The accompanying financial information should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto contained in Teradyne’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on March 1, 2018, for the year ended December 31, 2017.
In accordance with ASC 606, Teradyne recognizes revenues, when or as control is transferred to a customer.
Teradyne considers the amount stated on the face of the purchase order to be the transaction price.
Teradyne does not have material variable consideration, which could impact the stated purchase price agreed to by Teradyne and the customer.
Teradyne uses standalone transactions when available to value each performance obligation.
If standalone transactions are not available, Teradyne will estimate the standalone selling price through market assessments or cost plus a reasonable margin analysis.
In order to determine the appropriate timing for revenue recognition, Teradyne first determines if the transaction meets any of three criteria for over time recognition.
If the transaction meets the criteria for over time recognition, Teradyne recognizes revenue as the good or service is delivered.
Teradyne uses input variables such as hours or months utilized or costs incurred to determine the amount of revenue to recognize in a given period.
For transactions that do not meet the criteria for over time recognition, Teradyne will recognize revenue at a point in time based on an assessment of the five criteria for transfer of control.
Teradyne has concluded that revenue should be recognized when shipped or delivered based on contractual terms.
Typically acceptance of Teradyne’s products and services is a formality as Teradyne delivers similar systems, instruments and robots to standard specifications.
not obligate Teradyne to provide a separate service to the customer and it cannot be purchased separately.
The relative standalone selling price of the extended warranty is recognized ratably over the course of the extended warranty based on months completed.
Teradyne sells training and applications support to customers either in standalone transactions or included with system purchases.
Training and applications support included in system orders are valued based on their standalone selling price and all training and applications support is recognized over time as the customer receives and consumes the benefit associated with each.
Teradyne provides support services for certain systems and robots outside of warranty.
Teradyne has estimated the standalone selling price for these services based on adjusted market assessments.


item2.txt
The total purchase price for MiR was approximately $197 million, which included cash paid of approximately $146 million and $51 million in fair value of contingent consideration payable upon achievement of revenue and earnings targets through 2020.
The non-service components of net benefit costs such as interest cost, expected return on assets, amortization of prior service cost, and actuarial gains or losses, are required to be reported separately outside of income or loss from operations.
Following the adoption of this guidance, we continue to record the service cost component in the same line item as other employee compensation costs and the non-service components of net benefit costs such as interest cost, expected return on assets, amortization of prior service cost, and actuarial gains or losses are reported within other (income) expense, net.
The retrospective adoption of this standard decreased the three and six months ended July 2, 2017 income from operations by $2.1 million and $1.7 million, respectively, due to the removal of net actuarial pension gains and increased non-operating (income) expense by the same amount with no impact to net income.
The decrease in Semiconductor Test revenues of $233.1 million, or 39.3%, was driven primarily by a decrease in mobility test segment sales.
The increase in System Test revenues of $33.0 million, or 89.9%, was primarily due to higher sales in Storage Test of 3.5” hard disk drive and system level testers.
The increase in Industrial Automation revenues of $22.8 million, or 58.0%, was due to higher demand for collaborative robotic arms and the acquisition of MiR, completed in April of 2018.
MiR added $4.5 million of revenue in the three months ended July 1, 2018.
The increase in Wireless Test revenues of $7.5 million, or 27.1%, was primarily due to higher demand for connectivity test systems.
Gross profit as a percent of revenue increased by 2.2 points, as a result of an increase related to product mix primarily in Semiconductor Test.


part2.txt
The implementation of tariffs and export controls on our products may have a material impact on our business.


