fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying financial information should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto contained in Teradyne’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on March 1, 2018, for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Teradyne uses standalone transactions when available to value each performance obligation.
If the transaction meets the criteria for over time recognition, Teradyne recognizes revenue as the good or service is delivered.
Teradyne uses input variables such as hours or months utilized or costs incurred to determine the amount of revenue to recognize in a given period.
For transactions that do not meet the criteria for over time recognition, Teradyne will recognize revenue at a point in time based on an assessment of the five criteria for transfer of control.
Teradyne has concluded that revenue should be recognized when shipped or delivered based on contractual terms.
Revenue recognized in accordance with ASC 606 was $564.5 million and $1,571.0 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively.
For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, Teradyne also recognized $2.3 million and $10.2 million, respectively, in revenue on leases of Teradyne systems, which are accounted for outside of ASC 606.
Teradyne sells training and applications support to customers either in standalone transactions or included with system purchases.
Training and applications support included in system orders are valued based on their standalone selling price and all training and applications support is recognized over time as the customer receives and consumes the benefit associated with each.
Teradyne has estimated the standalone selling price for these services based on adjusted market assessments.
The amount of revenue recognized during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 that was previously included within the deferred revenue and customer advances was $24.5 million and $70.9 million, respectively, and primarily relates to extended warranties, training, application support, and PCS.
Teradyne generally expenses sales commissions when incurred because the amortization period would be less than one year.
Teradyne has adopted the practical expedient, which states an entity need not adjust the promised amount of consideration for the effects of a significant financing component if the entity expects, at contract inception, that the period between when the entity transfers a promised good or service to the customer and when the customer pays for that good or service will be one year or less.
Differences are the result of timing differences between the recognition of revenue under ASC 606 and ASC 605 primarily with respect to software transactions deferred due to lack of vendor specific objective evidence of price under ASC 605 and Teradyne’s assessment of acceptance under ASC 606.
The total preliminary purchase price of $196.6 million consisted of $145.2 million of cash paid and $51.4 million of contingent consideration, measured at fair value.
At September 30, 2018, the maximum amount of contingent consideration that could be paid is $118.9 million.
The allocation of the preliminary total purchase price to MiR’s net tangible liabilities and identifiable intangible assets was based on their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date.


item2.txt
The total purchase price for MiR was approximately $197 million, which included cash paid of approximately $146 million and $51 million in fair value of contingent consideration payable upon achievement of revenue and earnings targets through 2020.
In the three months ended October 1, 2017, the retrospective adoption of this standard increased income from operations by $0.4 million due to the removal of net actuarial pension losses and decreased non-operating (income) expense by the same amount with no impact to net income.
In the nine months ended October 1, 2017, the retrospective adoption of this standard decreased income from operations by $1.3 million due to the removal of net actuarial pension gains and increased non-operating (income) expense by the same amount with no impact to net income.
The increase in Semiconductor Test revenues of $20.4 million, or 5.1%, was driven primarily by an increase in the memory test sales, partially offset by lower mobility test segment sales.
The increase in Industrial Automation revenues of $25.8 million, or 64.0%, was due to higher demand for collaborative robotic arms and the acquisition of MiR, completed in April 2018.
The increase in System Test revenues of $14.0 million, or 39.3%, was primarily due to higher sales in Storage Test of 3.5” hard disk drive and system level testers.
Gross profit as a percent of revenue increased by 0.3 points, primarily due to favorable product mix.
Excess inventory, which represents inventory items that are not expected to be consumed during the next twelve quarters for our Semiconductor Test, System Test and Industrial Automation segments and the next four quarters for our Wireless Test segment, is written-down to estimated net realizable value.
During the three months ended September 30, 2018, we recorded an inventory provision of $3.3 million included in cost of revenues primarily due to downward revisions to previously forecasted demand levels.


item3.txt
In addition to market risks described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, we have an equity price risk related to the fair value of our convertible senior unsecured notes issued in December 2016.


part2.txt
The implementation of tariffs and export controls on our products may have a material impact on our business.


