fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying notes, together with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Teradyne’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, are an integral part of the condensed consolidated financial statements.
The consolidated interim financial statements include the accounts of Teradyne and its wholly-owned subsidiaries.
Under ASC 842, a contract is or contains a lease when Teradyne has the right to control the use of an identified asset.
Teradyne determines if an arrangement is a lease at inception of the contract, which is the date on which the terms of the contract are agreed to and the agreement creates enforceable rights and obligations.
The commencement date of the lease is the date that the lessor makes an underlying asset available for use by Teradyne.
As of June 30, 2019, Teradyne does not have material leases that have not yet commenced.
Teradyne determines if the lease is operating or finance at the lease commencement date based upon the terms of the lease and the nature of the asset.
As Teradyne is typically unable to determine the implicit rate, Teradyne uses an incremental borrowing rate based on the lease term and economic environment at commencement date.
On January 30, 2019, Teradyne acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of Lemsys SA (“Lemsys”) for a total purchase price of approximately $9.1 million.
Teradyne’s final allocation of the purchase price was goodwill of $1.4 million, which is not deductible for tax purposes, acquired intangible assets of $4.6 million with an average estimated useful life of 5.2 years, and $3.1 million of net tangible assets.
The acquisition was not material to Teradyne’s condensed consolidated financial statements.
On April 25, 2018, Teradyne acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of Mobile Industrial Robots Aps (“MiR”), a Danish limited liability company located in Odense, Denmark.
The contingent consideration related to revenue for the period from January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2018 in the amount of $30.8 million was paid in March 2019.
The allocation of the total purchase price to MiR’s net tangible liabilities and identifiable intangible assets was based on their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date.
Pro forma results for the three and six months ended July 1, 2018 were adjusted to exclude $2.3 million and $2.9 million, respectively,
of acquisition related costs, and $0.4 million of non-recurring expense related to fair value adjustment to acquisition-date inventory
On February 26, 2018, Teradyne acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of Energid Technologies Corporation (“Energid”) for a total purchase price of approximately $27.6 million.
As of the acquisition date, Teradyne’s purchase price allocation was goodwill of $14.4 million which is deductible for tax purposes, acquired intangible assets of $12.3 million with an average estimated useful life of 7.7 years, and $1.0 million of net tangible assets.


item2.txt
The total purchase price was approximately $197.8 million, which included cash paid of approximately $145.2 million and $52.6 million in fair value of contingent consideration payable upon achievement of certain thresholds and targets for revenue and earnings before interest and taxes through 2020.
The increase in Semiconductor Test revenues of $14.8 million, or 4.1%, was driven primarily by an increase in semiconductor test sales for 5G infrastructure and higher service revenues, partially offset by lower microcontroller, power linear and mobile image sensor test sales.
During the three months ended June 30, 2019, we recorded an inventory provision of $3.4 million included in cost of revenues primarily due to downward revisions to previously forecasted demand levels, of which $2.3 million was related to Semiconductor Test, $0.8 million was related to Wireless Test and $0.3 million was related to System Test.
During the three months ended July 1, 2018, we recorded an inventory provision of $2.7 million included in cost of revenues primarily due to downward revisions to previously forecasted demand levels, of which $1.6 million was related to Semiconductor Test, $0.6 million was related to Wireless Test, $0.3 million was related to System Test, and $0.2 million was related to Industrial Automation.
During the three months ended June 30, 2019 and July 1, 2018, we scrapped $2.6 million and $1.1 million of inventory, respectively.
During the three months ended June 30, 2019 and July 1, 2018, we sold $0.4 million and $1.9 million of previously written-down or
The increase of $9.4 million in selling and administrative expenses was due primarily to higher spending in Industrial Automation from higher sales and marketing spending in Universal Robots and MiR.
The increase of $6.1 million in engineering and development expenses was primarily due to higher spending in Industrial Automation and Wireless Test.
Acquired intangible assets amortization expense increased primarily due to Industrial Automation acquisitions of MiR and Energid in 2018 and the Semiconductor Test acquisition of Lemsys in 2019.


item3.txt



part2.txt
We are subject to U.S. laws and regulations that limit and restrict the export of some of our products and services and may restrict our transactions with certain customers, business partners and other persons.
In certain circumstances, export control and economic sanctions regulations may prohibit the export of certain products, services and technologies, and in other circumstances we may be required to obtain an export license before exporting the controlled item.


