Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations



The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis (“MD&A”) covers: (i) the results of operations for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 and (ii) the financial condition as of June 30, 2018. You should read the following discussion and analysis in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements (the “Audited Consolidated Financial Statements”) and related notes for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, included in the Company’s Form 10-K and with the unaudited consolidated condensed financial statements (the “Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements”) and related notes appearing elsewhere herein. This MD&A contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ from those indicated in the forward-looking statements. See “Forward-Looking Statements” for a discussion of the risks, uncertainties and assumptions associated with these statements.



Except as otherwise indicated or unless the context otherwise requires, (a) the terms “EVERTEC,” “we,” “us,” “our,” “our Company” and “the Company” refer to EVERTEC, Inc. and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, (b) the term “Holdings” refers to EVERTEC Intermediate Holdings, LLC, but not any of its subsidiaries and (c) the term “EVERTEC Group” refers to EVERTEC Group, LLC and its predecessor entities and their subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, including the operations of its predecessor entities prior to the Merger (as defined below). EVERTEC Inc.’s subsidiaries include Holdings, EVERTEC Group, EVERTEC Dominicana, SAS, Tecnopago SpA, EFT Group SpA, EFT Global Services, SpA, EFT Group S.A., Tecnopago España SL, EFT Servicos Profesionales SpA, Paytrue S.A., Caleidon, S.A., Paytrue Solutions Informatica Ltda., EVERTEC Panamá, S.A., EVERTEC Costa Rica, S.A. (“EVERTEC CR”), EVERTEC Guatemala, S.A., Processa, SAS ("Processa"), EVERTEC USA, LLC and EVERTEC México Servicios de Procesamiento, S.A. de C.V. Neither EVERTEC nor Holdings conducts any operations other than with respect to its indirect or direct ownership of EVERTEC Group.



Executive Summary



EVERTEC is a leading full-service transaction processing business in Latin America and the Caribbean, providing a broad range of merchant acquiring, payment services and business process management services. According to the August 2017 Nilson Report, we are one of the largest merchant acquirers in Latin America based on total number of transactions and we believe we are the largest merchant acquirer in the Caribbean and Central America. We serve 26 countries in the region from our base in Puerto Rico. We manage a system of electronic payment networks that process more than two billion transactions annually, and offer a comprehensive suite of services for core bank processing, cash processing and technology outsourcing. In addition, we own and operate the ATH network, one of the leading personal identification number (“PIN”) debit networks in Latin America. We serve a diversified customer base of leading financial institutions, merchants, corporations and government agencies with “mission-critical” technology solutions that enable them to issue, process and accept transactions securely. We believe our business is well-positioned to continue to expand across the fast-growing Latin American region.





•Our ability to provide best in class products; 



•Our ability to provide in one package a range of services that traditionally had to be sourced from different vendors; 



•Our ability to serve customers with disparate operations in several geographies with integrated technology solutions that enable them to manage their business as one enterprise; and 



•Our ability to capture and analyze data across the transaction processing value chain and use that data to provide value-added services that are differentiated from those offered by pure-play vendors that serve only one portion of the transaction processing value chain (such as only merchant acquiring or payment services). 





technology platforms that we manage and operate in-house and that generates significant operating efficiencies that enable us to maximize profitability. 



We sell and distribute our services primarily through a proprietary direct sales force with established customer relationships. We are also building a variety of indirect sales channels that enable us to leverage the distribution capabilities of partners in adjacent markets, including value-added resellers. We continue to pursue joint ventures and merchant acquiring alliances. 



We benefit from an attractive business model, the hallmarks of which are recurring revenue, scalability, significant operating margins and moderate capital expenditure requirements. Our revenue is predominantly recurring in nature because of the mission-critical and embedded nature of the services we provide. In addition, we generally negotiate multi-year contracts with our customers. We believe our business model should enable us to continue to grow our business organically in the primary markets we serve without significant incremental capital expenditures. 



Corporate Background



EVERTEC, Inc. (formerly known as Carib Latam Holdings, Inc.) is a Puerto Rico corporation organized in April 2012. Our main operating subsidiary, EVERTEC Group, LLC (formerly known as EVERTEC, LLC and EVERTEC, Inc., hereinafter “EVERTEC Group”), was organized in Puerto Rico in 1988. EVERTEC Group was formerly a wholly-owned subsidiary of Popular. On September 30, 2010, pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger (as amended, the “Merger Agreement”), AP Carib Holdings, Ltd. (“Apollo”), an affiliate of Apollo Global Management LLC, acquired a 51% indirect ownership interest in EVERTEC Group as part of a merger (the “Merger”) and EVERTEC Group became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Holdings. 



On April 17, 2012, EVERTEC Group was converted from a Puerto Rico corporation to a Puerto Rico limited liability company (the “Conversion”) for the purpose of improving its consolidated tax efficiency by taking advantage of changes to the Puerto Rico Internal Revenue Code, as amended (the “PR Code”), that permit limited liability companies to be treated as partnerships that are pass-through entities for Puerto Rico tax purposes. Concurrent with the Conversion, Holdings, which is our direct subsidiary, was also converted from a Puerto Rico corporation to a Puerto Rico limited liability company. Prior to these conversions, EVERTEC, Inc. was formed in order to act as the new parent company of Holdings and its subsidiaries, including EVERTEC Group. The transactions described above in this paragraph are collectively referred to as the “Reorganization.” 



Separation from and Key Relationship with Popular



Prior to the Merger on September 30, 2010, EVERTEC Group was 100% owned by Popular, the largest financial institution in the Caribbean, and operated substantially as an independent entity within Popular. After the consummation of the Merger, Popular retained an indirect ownership interest in EVERTEC Group and is our largest customer. In connection with, and upon consummation of the Merger, EVERTEC Group entered into a 15-year Master Services Agreement (the “MSA”), and several related agreements with Popular. Under the terms of the MSA, Popular agreed to continue to use EVERTEC services on an ongoing and exclusive basis, for the duration of the agreement, on commercial terms consistent with those of our historical relationship. Additionally, Popular granted us a right of first refusal on the development of certain new financial technology products and services for the duration of the MSA.



Factors and Trends Affecting the Results of Our Operations



The ongoing migration from cash and paper methods of payment to electronic payments continues to benefit the transaction- processing industry globally. We believe that the penetration of electronic payments in the markets in which we operate is significantly lower relative to the U.S. market, and that this ongoing shift will continue to generate substantial growth opportunities for our business. For example, currently the adoption of banking products, including electronic payments, in the Latin American and Caribbean region is lower relative to the mature U.S. and European markets. We believe that the unbanked and underbanked population in our markets will continue to shrink, and therefore drive incremental penetration and growth of electronic payments in Puerto Rico and other Latin American regions. We also benefit from the trend for financial institutions and government agencies to outsource technology systems and processes. Many medium- and small-size institutions in the Latin American markets in which we operate have outdated computer systems and updating these IT legacy systems is financially and logistically challenging, which presents a business opportunity for us. 



Finally, our financial condition and results of operations are, in part, dependent on the economic and general conditions of the geographies in which we operate. 



On June 30, 2016, the U.S. President signed into law PROMESA. PROMESA establishes a fiscal oversight and the Oversight Board comprised of seven voting members appointed by the President. The Oversight Board has broad budgetary and financial 



powers over Puerto Rico’s budget, laws, financial plans and regulations, including the power to approve restructuring agreements with creditors, file petitions for restructuring and reform the electronic system for the tax collection. The Oversight Board will have ultimate authority in preparing the Puerto Rico government’s budget and any issuance of future debt by the government and its instrumentalities. In addition, PROMESA imposes an automatic stay on all litigation against Puerto Rico and its instrumentalities, as well as any other judicial or administrative actions or proceedings to enforce or collect claims against the Puerto Rico government. On May 1, 2017, the automatic stay expired. Promptly after the expiration of the stay, creditors of the Puerto Rico government filed various lawsuits involving defaults on more than $70 billion of bonds issued by Puerto Rico, having failed to reach a negotiated settlement on such defaults with the Puerto Rico government during the period of the automatic stay. On May 3, 2017, the Oversight Board filed a voluntary petition of relief on behalf of the Commonwealth pursuant to Title III of PROMESA for the restructuring of the Commonwealth’s debt. Subsequently, the Oversight Board filed voluntary petitions of relief pursuant to Title III of PROMESA on behalf certain public corporations and instrumentalities. Title III is an in-court debt restructuring proceeding similar to protections afforded debtors under Chapter 11 of the United States Code (the “Bankruptcy Code”); the Bankruptcy Code is not available to the Commonwealth or its instrumentalities.



As the solution to the Puerto Rican government’s debt crisis remains unclear, we continue to carefully monitor our receivables with the government as well as monitor general economic trends to understand the impact the crisis has on the economy of Puerto Rico and our card payment volumes. To date our receivables with the Puerto Rican government and overall payment transaction volumes have not been significantly affected by the debt crisis, however we remain cautious. 



In the aftermath of the 2017 hurricanes, economic activity and consumer spending in Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands has been erratic. In the first half of 2018, we experienced elevated sales volumes as consumers and businesses spent on hurricane recovery and rebuilding activities. This spending increased our merchant acquiring revenues and we believe our elevated sales volume was in large part driven by a stimulus of relief funding and private insurance proceeds received by consumers and businesses. We believe that this pattern will likely continue through the remainder of the year as incremental insurance and relief funds are projected to be received by consumers and businesses. 



In addition to the macroeconomic trends described above, Management currently estimates that we will continue to experience a revenue attrition in Latin America of approximately $2 million to $4 million for previously disclosed migrations anticipated in 2018. The clients decisions, which were made prior to 2015, for these anticipated migrations were driven by a variety of historical factors, most importantly customer service experience. Management believes that these customer decisions are unlikely to change, however timing is subject to change based on customer's conversion schedules. 



Results of Operations



Comparison of the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 





Revenues



Total revenues in the second quarter of 2018 increased by $9.8 million or 10% to $113.3 million. Revenue growth in the quarter reflected the impact of the acquisition of PayGroup as well as elevated sales volumes in Puerto Rico driven by post-hurricane recovery activity, federal relief and benefit programs and insurance proceeds.



Cost of revenues 



Cost of revenues amounted to $49.1 million, an increase of $6.1 million or 14% when compared with the prior year period. The increase is primarily driven by an increase in salaries and benefits in connection with the PayGroup acquisition coupled with an increase in equipment maintenance expense.



Selling, general and administrative



Selling, general and administrative expenses in the second quarter of 2018 increased by $3.3 million or 22% to $17.8 million when compared with the second quarter of 2017. The increase is primarily related to an increase in share based compensation expenses coupled with an increase in salaries and benefits as a result of the PayGroup acquisition and an increase in professional fees in connection with due diligence for a potential transaction which the Company decided not to pursue.



Depreciation and amortization



Depreciation and amortization expense amounted to $15.7 million, relatively flat when compared with the prior year period.



Non-operating income (expenses)





Non-operating expenses increased by $1.7 million to $7.4 million when compared with the prior year period. The increase is mainly related to a $1.4 million decrease in Other (expense) income due to a decrease in foreign exchange gains coupled with an increase in interest expense of $0.3 million.



Income tax expense





Income tax expense amounted to $3.1 million a decrease of $1.0 million when compared with the prior year period. The decrease is primarily related to prior year income tax expense recognized in connection with a one-time dividend declared to repatriate foreign earnings in order to fund the acquisition of PayGroup. The effective tax rate for the quarter of 13.4% reflects increased foreign taxes.



Comparison of the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 





Revenues



Total revenues for the six months ended June 30, 2018 amounted to $223.6 million, an increase of $18.8 million or 9%. The increase in revenues was primarily driven by added revenues from the acquisition of PayGroup as well as strong sales volumes in Puerto Rico related to post-hurricanes recovery.



Cost of revenues 



Cost of revenues amounted to $96.6 million, an increase of $9.3 million or 11% when compared with the prior year period. The increase is primarily driven by an increase in salaries and benefits in connection with the PayGroup acquisition and higher equipment maintenance expenses.



Selling, general and administrative



Selling, general and administrative expenses in the six months ended June 30, 2018 increased by $5.9 million or 23% to $31.3 million when compared with the same period in 2017. The increase is mainly driven by an increase in share based compensation expense coupled with expenses related to the PayGroup acquisition and an increase in professional fees for the same reason explained above for the quarter.



Depreciation and amortization



Depreciation and amortization expense amounted to $31.6 million, flat when compared with the prior year.



Non-operating income (expenses)





Non-operating expenses increased by $2.8 million to $13.9 million when compared with the prior year period. The increase is mainly related to an increase in interest expense of $0.9 million coupled with a $1.9 million decrease in Other income, net due to a decrease in foreign exchange gains.



Income tax expense





Income tax expense amounted to $7.0 million an increase of $1.0 million when compared with the prior year period and an effective tax rate of 14.0% . The increase in tax expense is driven by an increase in foreign taxes.



Segment Results of Operations







The Payment Services - Latin America segment revenues consist of revenues related to providing access to the ATH debit network and other card networks to financial institutions, including related services such as authorization, processing, management and recording of ATM and POS transactions, and ATM management and monitoring. The segment revenues also include revenues from card processing services (such as credit and debit card processing, authorization and settlement and fraud monitoring and control to debit or credit issuers), payment processing services (such as payment and billing products for merchants, businesses and financial institutions), as well as, licensed software solutions for risk and fraud management and card payment processing. For ATH debit network and processing services, revenues are primarily driven by the number of transactions processed. Revenues are derived primarily from network fees, transaction switching and processing fees, and the leasing POS devices. For card issuer processing, revenues are primarily dependent upon the number of cardholder accounts on file, transactions and authorizations processed, the number of cards embossed and other processing services. 



The Merchant Acquiring segment consists of revenues from services that allow merchants to accept electronic methods of payment. In the Merchant Acquiring segment, revenues include a discount fee and membership fees charged to merchants, debit network fees and rental fees from POS devices and other equipment, net of credit card interchange and assessment fees charged by credit cards associations (such as VISA or MasterCard) or payment networks. The discount fee is generally a percentage of the transaction value. EVERTEC also charges merchants for other services that are unrelated to the number of transactions or the transaction value.



The Business Solutions segment consists of revenues from a full suite of business process management solutions in various product areas such as core bank processing, network hosting and management, IT professional services, business process outsourcing, item processing, cash processing, and fulfillment. Core bank processing and network services revenues are derived in part from a recurrent fee and from fees based on the number of accounts on file (i.e. savings or checking accounts, loans, etc.) or computer resources utilized. Revenues from other processing services within the Business Solutions segment are generally volume-based and depend on factors such as the number of accounts processed. In addition, EVERTEC is a reseller of hardware and software products and these resale transactions are generally one-time transactions.



In addition to the four operating segments described above, Management identified certain functional cost areas that operate independently and do not constitute businesses in themselves. These units could neither be concluded as operating segments nor could they be combined with any other operating segments. Therefore, these units are aggregated and presented as “Corporate and Other” category in the financial statements alongside the operating segments. The Corporate and other category consists of corporate overhead expenses, intersegment eliminations, certain leveraged activities and other non-operating and 





•marketing, 



•corporate finance and accounting, 



•human resources, 



•legal, 



•risk management functions, 



•internal audit, 



•corporate debt related costs, 



•non-operating depreciation and amortization expenses generated as a result of the Merger, 



•intersegment revenues and expenses, and 



•other non-recurring fees and expenses that are not considered when management evaluates financial performance at a segment level



The CODM reviews the operating segments separate financial information to assess performance and to allocate resources. Management evaluates the operating results of each of its operating segments based upon revenues and Adjusted EBITDA. Adjusted EBITDA, as it relates to operating segments, is presented in conformity with Accounting Standards Codification Topic 280, "Segment Reporting" given that it is reported to the CODM for purposes of allocating resources. Segment asset disclosure is not used by the CODM as a measure of segment performance since the segment evaluation is driven by revenues and adjusted EBITDA performance. As such, segment assets are not disclosed in the notes to the accompanying consolidated financial statements.



The following tables set forth information about the Company’s operations by its four business segments for the periods indicated below. 



Comparison of the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017









Payment Services - Latin America





Payment services - Latin America revenue increased $6.3 million to $19.2 million driven by added revenues in connection with the PayGroup acquisition. Adjusted EBITDA increased $0.7 million when compared to the prior year period reflecting the increased revenue from the PayGroup acquisition at a lower margin.



Merchant Acquiring





Merchant acquiring revenues increased $2.5 million to $26.0 million due to an increase in sales volume driven by a higher average ticket which contributed to a higher net revenue margin. Adjusted EBITDA increased $2.1 million mainly due to the increase in revenues and the improved margin contribution from the increased average ticket.



Business Solutions





Business solutions revenue increased $0.6 million driven by an increase in revenues from Popular, partially offset by lower printing revenue. Adjusted EBITDA decreased $0.3 million to $23.2 million when compared with the prior year as a result of increased expenses for the segment.



Comparison of the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 









Payment Services - Latin America





Payment services - Latin America revenue increased $13.7 million to $39.6 million driven by added revenues in connection with PayGroup acquisition coupled with increased revenues from transaction processing. Adjusted EBITDA increased $2.2 million when compared to the prior year period as a result of the same reason explained above for the June ending quarter.



Merchant Acquiring





Merchant acquiring revenues increased $3.4 million to $49.3 million driven by the same reasons above explained for the quarter coupled with an increase in non-transactional fees. Adjusted EBITDA increased $3.2 million for the same reasons as the June ending quarter.



Business Solutions





Business solutions revenue increased $0.5 million to $97.2 million when compared with the prior year for the same reasons as in the June ending quarter, while Adjusted EBITDA increased $0.4 million mainly related to the increase in revenues.



Liquidity and Capital Resources



Our principal source of liquidity is cash generated from operations, and our primary liquidity requirements are the funding of capital expenditures, working capital needs and acquisitions. We also have a $65.0 million Revolving Facility, of which $65.0 million was available as of June 30, 2018.



At June 30, 2018, we had cash and cash equivalents of $59.3 million, of which $37.5 million resides in our subsidiaries located outside of Puerto Rico for purposes of (i) funding the respective subsidiary’s current business operations and (ii) funding potential future investment outside of Puerto Rico. We intend to indefinitely reinvest these funds outside of Puerto Rico, and based on our liquidity forecast, we will not need to repatriate this cash to fund the Puerto Rico operations or to meet debt-service obligations. However, if in the future we determine that we no longer need to maintain such cash balances within our foreign subsidiaries, we may elect to distribute such cash to the Company in Puerto Rico. Distributions from the foreign subsidiaries to Puerto Rico may be subject to tax withholding and other tax consequences.



Our primary use of cash is for operating expenses, working capital requirements, capital expenditures, dividend payments, share repurchases, debt service, acquisitions and other growth strategies as opportunities present themselves.



Based on our current level of operations, we believe our cash flows from operations and the available senior secured Revolving Credit Facility will be adequate to meet our liquidity needs for the next twelve months. However, our ability to fund future operating expenses, dividend payments, capital expenditures, mergers and acquisitions, and our ability to make scheduled payments of interest, to pay principal on or refinance our indebtedness and to satisfy any other of our present or future debt obligations will depend on our future operating performance, which will be affected by general economic, financial and other factors beyond our control.





Net cash provided by operating activities for the six months ended June 30, 2018 was $76.9 million compared with cash provided by operating activities of $71.1 million for the corresponding 2017 period. The $5.8 million increase in cash provided by operating activities is primarily driven by less cash used to pay down accounts payable and accrued liabilities, less cash used to prepay maintenance contracts and less cash used to pay income taxes.



Net cash used in investing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2018 was $15.8 million compared with $15.4 million for the corresponding period in 2017. The $0.4 million increase reflects an increase in capital expenditures when compared to the prior year. 



Net cash used in financing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2018 was $51.0 million as compared with $14.4 million for the corresponding 2017 period. Cash used in financing activities was primarily related to cash used for repayments of the revolving credit facility and principal repayments on long-term debt, including the repayment at maturity of the 2018 Term A loan. 



Capital Resources



Our principal capital expenditures are for hardware and computer software (purchased and internally developed) and additions to property and equipment. We invested approximately $15.9 million and $15.5 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Capital expenditures are expected to be funded by cash flow from operations and, if necessary, borrowings under our Revolving Facility. We expect capital expenditures to be in a range of $35 million to $40 million in 2018.



On April 17, 2018, the Company paid the outstanding balance of the 2018 Term A Loan which amounted to $26.1 million, as scheduled. In addition, on the same date, $35 million of the Revolving Facility expired.



Dividend Payments



Historically, we have paid a regular quarterly dividend on our common stock, subject to the declaration thereof by our Board each quarter. On November 2, 2017, the Board voted to temporarily suspend the quarterly dividend on the Company's common stock due to the difficult operating environment in Puerto Rico. On July 26, 2018, the Board voted to reinstate a quarterly dividend on the Company's common stock and declared a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.05 per share on the Company’s outstanding shares of common stock. The dividend will be paid on September 7, 2018 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on August 6, 2018. The Board anticipates declaring this dividend in future quarters on a regular basis; however future declarations of dividends are subject to board of directors’ approval and may be adjusted as business needs or market conditions change.



Financial Obligations



Senior Secured Credit Facilities



On April 17, 2013, EVERTEC Group entered into a credit agreement (the “2013 Credit Agreement”) governing the senior secured credit facilities, consisting of a $300.0 million term loan A facility (the “Term A Loan”), a $400.0 million term loan B facility (the “Term B Loan”, together with the Term A Loan, the “Senior Secured term loans”) and a $100.0 million revolving credit facility (the "Revolving Facility"). During 2016, the Company entered into two separate amendments to the 2013 Credit Agreement. In the second quarter of 2016, EVERTEC Group, together with certain other direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Company, entered into a second amendment and waiver to the outstanding 2013 Credit Agreement (the “Second Amendment”). In the fourth quarter of 2016, EVERTEC Group, together with certain other direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Company, entered into a third amendment (the “Third Amendment”) to the 2013 Credit Agreement. The Third Amendment extends the maturity of (a) approximately $219 million of EVERTEC Group’s existing approximately $250 million of Term A loan facility to January 17, 2020 (the “2020 Term A Loan”) and (b) $65 million of EVERTEC Group’s existing $100 million of Revolving Facility to January 17, 2020. The remaining approximately $30 million of Term A loan (the “2018 Term A Loan”) and the $35 million of Revolving Facility were not extended and matured as originally scheduled on April 17, 2018. The Term B Loan will remain in place and mature as originally scheduled on April 17, 2020. All loans may be prepaid without premium or penalty.



The unpaid principal balance at June 30, 2018 of the 2020 Term A Loan and the Term B Loan was $195.5 million and $380.0 million, respectively. The additional borrowing capacity for the Revolving Facility at June 30, 2018 was $65.0 million. On April 17, 2018, the Company paid the outstanding principal balance of the 2018 Term A loan which matured as scheduled. In addition, $35 million of the Revolving Facility expired on the same date, our borrowing capacity under the Revolving Facility is $65 million.



Notes payable



In May 2016, EVERTEC Group entered into a non-interest bearing financing agreement amounting to $0.7 million and in October 2016 entered into an interest bearing agreement of $1.1 million, to purchase software. As of June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the outstanding principal balance of the notes payable is $0.4 million and $1.0 million, respectively. The current portion of these notes is recorded as part of accounts payable and the long-term portion is included in other long-term liabilities.



Interest Rate Swap







The Company has accounted for this transaction as a cash flow hedge. The fair value of the Company’s derivative instrument is determined using a standard valuation model. The significant inputs used in this model are readily available in public markets, or can be derived from observable market transactions, and therefore have been classified as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. Inputs used in this standard valuation model for derivative instruments include the applicable forward rates and discount rates. The discount rates are based on the historical LIBOR Swap rates. 







During the six months ended June 30, 2018, the Company reclassified losses of $0.2 million from accumulated other comprehensive loss into income through interest expense. Based on current LIBOR rates, the Company expects to reclassify gains of $0.3 million from accumulated other comprehensive loss into income through interest expense over the next 12 months.



The cash flow hedge is considered highly effective and no impact on earnings is expected due to hedge ineffectiveness.



Covenant Compliance





Net Income Reconciliation to EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Earnings per common share (Non-GAAP Measures)



We define “EBITDA” as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. We define “Adjusted EBITDA” as EBITDA further adjusted to exclude unusual items and other adjustments described below. Adjusted EBITDA by segment is reported to the chief operating decision maker for purposes of making decisions about allocating resources to the segments and assessing their performance. For this reason Adjusted EBITDA, as it relates to our segments, is presented in conformity with Accounting Standards Codification 280, Segment Reporting, and is excluded from the definition of non-GAAP financial measures under the Securities and Exchange Commission's Regulation G and Item 10(e) of Regulation S-K. We define “Adjusted Net Income” as net income adjusted to exclude unusual items and other adjustments described below. We define “Adjusted Earnings per common share” as Adjusted Net Income divided by diluted shares outstanding. 



We present EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA because we consider them important supplemental measures of our performance and believe they are frequently used by securities analysts, investors and other interested parties in the evaluation of ourselves and other companies in our industry. In addition, our presentation of Adjusted EBITDA is substantially consistent with the equivalent measurements that are contained in the senior secured credit facilities in testing EVERTEC Group’s compliance 



with covenants therein such as the senior secured leverage ratio. We use Adjusted Net Income to measure our overall profitability because we believe better reflects our comparable operating performance by excluding the impact of the non-cash amortization and depreciation that was created as a result of the Merger. In addition, in evaluating EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Earnings per common share, you should be aware that in the future we may incur expenses such as those excluded in calculating them. Further, our presentation of these measures should not be construed as an inference that our future operating results will not be affected by unusual or nonrecurring items. 





•they do not reflect cash outlays for capital expenditures or future contractual commitments;



•they do not reflect changes in, or cash requirements for, working capital;



•although depreciation and amortization are non-cash charges, the assets being depreciated and amortized will often have to be replaced in the future, and EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA do not reflect cash requirements for such replacements;



•in the case of EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA, they do not reflect interest expense, or the cash requirements necessary to service interest, or principal payments, on indebtedness;



•in the case of EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA, they do not reflect income tax expense or the cash necessary to pay income taxes; and



•other companies, including other companies in our industry, may not use EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted Net Income, and Adjusted Earnings per common share or may calculate EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Earnings per common share differently than as presented in this Report, limiting their usefulness as a comparative measure.



EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Earnings per common share are not measurements of liquidity or financial performance under GAAP. You should not consider EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Earnings per common share as alternatives to cash flows from operating activities or any other performance measures determined in accordance with GAAP, as an indicator of cash flows, as a measure of liquidity or as an alternative to operating or net income determined in accordance with GAAP. 







1)Represents the elimination of non-cash equity earnings from our 19.99% equity investment in Consorcio de Tarjetas Dominicanas S.A., net of cash dividends received. 



2)Primarily represents share-based compensation and other compensation expense of $3.7 million and $2.2 million for the quarters ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 and severance payments of $0.8 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2018. Primarily represents share-based compensation and other compensation expense of $7.3 million and $4.2 million for the six months ended ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 and severance payments of $1.0 million and $0.1 million for the same periods, respectively. 



3)Represents fees and expenses associated with corporate transactions as defined in the Credit Agreement, recorded as part of selling, general and administrative expenses and cost of revenues. 



4)Impairment charge and contractual fee accrual for a third party software solution that was determined to be commercially unviable.



5)Represents operating depreciation and amortization expense, which excludes amounts generated as a result of the Merger and other from purchase accounting intangibles generated from acquisitions. 



6)Represents interest expense, less interest income, as they appear on our consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income, adjusted to exclude non-cash amortization of the debt issue costs, premium and accretion of discount. 



7)Represents income tax expense calculated on adjusted pre-tax income using the applicable GAAP tax rate. 



8)Represents the 35% non-controlling equity interest in Processa, net of amortization for intangibles created as part of the purchase. 



Off Balance Sheet Arrangements



In the ordinary course of business the Company may enter into commercial commitments. As of June 30, 2018, the Company did not have any off balance sheet items.



Seasonality



Our payment businesses generally experience moderate increased activity during the traditional holiday shopping periods and around other nationally recognized holidays, which follow consumer spending patterns.



Effect of Inflation



While inflationary increases in certain input costs, such as occupancy, labor and benefits, and general administrative costs, have an impact on our operating results, inflation has had minimal net effect on our operating results during the last three years as overall inflation has been offset by increased selling process and cost reduction actions. We cannot assure you, however, that we will not be affected by general inflation in the future.



Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds



None.



