fls.txt
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 or Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each as amended, including, among other things, statements about our plans, strategies and prospects, market demand for our products, shifts in technology, estimates of industry growth, our ability to effectively manage our debt obligations and our cash liquidity position, our restructuring efforts, the sufficiency of our sources of cash to meet our cash needs for the next 12 months and our expectations regarding capital expenditures and projected cost savings for the fiscal year ending July 3, 2020.


item1.txt
In addition to HDDs, the Company produces a broad range of data storage products including solid state drives (“SSDs”), solid state hybrid drives (“SSHDs”) and storage subsystems.
The Company’s enterprise data solutions (“EDS”) portfolio includes storage subsystems for enterprises, cloud service providers, scale-out storage servers and original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”).
The Company’s unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and all its wholly-owned and majority-owned subsidiaries, after elimination of intercompany transactions and balances.
The Company’s consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended June 28, 2019, are included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K, as filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on August 2, 2019.
The Company operates and reports financial results on a fiscal year of 52 or 53 weeks ending on the Friday closest to June 30.
In accordance with its policy, the Company reviews the estimated useful lives of its fixed assets on an ongoing basis.
This review indicated that the actual lives of certain manufacturing equipment at its manufacturing facilities were longer than the estimated useful lives used for deprecation purposes in the Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements.
As a result, effective June 29, 2019, the Company changed its estimate of the useful lives of its manufacturing equipment from a range of three to five years to a range of three to seven years.
Accordingly, the Company applied the new lease accounting standard prospectively to leases existing or commencing on or after June 29, 2019.
The Company elected to apply the practical expedients which allow for not reassessing whether existing contracts contain leases, the classification of existing leases and whether the existing initial direct costs meet the new definition.
In addition, the Company elected to combine lease and non-lease components for facility leases and to not recognize right-of-use (“ROU”) assets and lease liabilities for leases with an initial term of 12 months of less on the balance sheet.
ROU assets represent the Company’s right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and the corresponding lease liabilities represent its obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
As the Company’s leases do not provide an implicit rate, the net present value of future minimum lease payments is determined using the Company’s estimated incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at the lease commencement date.
Additionally, the Company’s lease term may include options to extend or terminate the lease.
These options are reflected in the ROU asset and lease liability when it is reasonably certain that the Company will exercise the option.
The Company’s lease agreements do not contain any material residual value guarantees.
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standard Update (“ASU”) 2016-02 (ASC Topic 842), Leases and subsequently issued certain interpretive clarifications on this new guidance which amends a number of aspects of lease accounting, including requiring a lessee to recognize an ROU asset and corresponding lease liability for operating leases and enhanced disclosures.
As of June 29, 2019, adoption of the standard resulted in the recognition of ROU assets and corresponding current and non-current lease liabilities of $115 million, $17 million and $57 million, respectively, on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet, primarily relating to real estate operating leases.


item2.txt
The following is a discussion of the financial condition, changes in financial condition, and results of operations for our fiscal quarters ended October 4, 2019, June 28, 2019 and September 28, 2018, referred to herein as the “September 2019 quarter,” the “June 2019 quarter,” and the “September 2018 quarter,” respectively.
The September 2019 quarter was 14 weeks and the June 2019 quarter and September 2018 quarter were each 13 weeks.
We repurchased an aggregate principal amount of $620 million of certain outstanding senior notes in connection with the Tender Offers and borrowed $500 million under the Term Loan.
The effect of this change in estimate increased the September 2019 quarter net income by $23 million.
Revenue in the September 2019 quarter increased by $207 million from the June 2019 quarter primarily due to an increase in exabytes shipped and improved product mix, partially offset by price erosion.
Revenue in the September 2019 quarter decreased by $413 million from the September 2018 quarter primarily due to less favorable market conditions and price erosion.
Sales incentive programs were approximately 13%, 11% and 11% of gross HDD revenue for the September 2019 quarter, June 2019 quarter and September 2018 quarter, respectively.


item3.txt
Interest Rate Risk.
In the September 2019 quarter, we entered into certain interest rate swap agreements with a notional amount of $500 million to convert the variable interest rate on the Term Loan to fixed interest rates.
The objective of the interest rate swap agreements is to eliminate the variability of interest payment cash flows associated with variable interest rates.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Legal, Environmental and Other Contingencies” of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.


