item1.txt
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Its principal products are hard disk drives, commonly referred to as disk drives, hard drives or HDDs. In addition to HDDs, the Company produces a broad range of data storage products including solid state drives (“SSD”) and their related controllers, solid state hybrid drives (“SSHD”) and storage subsystems.
The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and all its wholly-owned and majority-owned subsidiaries, after elimination of intercompany transactions and balances.
The results of operations for the three and nine months ended March 30, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations to be expected for any subsequent interim period or for the Company’s fiscal year ending June 29, 2018.
The Company operates and reports financial results on a fiscal year of 52 or 53 weeks ending on the Friday closest to June 30.
The Company is required to adopt the guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019.
Based on its assessment, the Company plans to adopt the new revenue standard in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, utilizing the modified retrospective method of transition.
While management has not yet completed its assessment of the impact of adopting this new standard on the Company’s consolidated financial statements, the Company expects the adoption of the new standard will result in the recognition of revenue generally upon shipment (sell-in basis) for sales of products to certain direct retail customers and customers in certain indirect retail channels which are currently being recognized on a sell-through basis.
These changes are not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements.
This ASU amends a number of aspects of lease accounting, including requiring lessees to recognize operating leases with a term greater than one year on their balance sheet as a right-of-use asset and corresponding lease liability, measured at the present value of the lease payments.
The Company is required to adopt this guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020.


item2.txt
The following is a discussion of the financial condition, changes in financial condition, and results of operations for our fiscal quarters ended March 30, 2018, December 29, 2017 and March 31, 2017, referred to herein as the “March 2018 quarter,” the “December 2017 quarter,” and the “March 2017 quarter,” respectively.
The March 2018, December 2017 and March 2017 quarters were all 13 weeks.
•   Overview of the March 2018 Quarter.
Highlights of events in the March 2018 quarter that impacted our financial position.
Overview of contractual obligations and contingent liabilities and commitments outstanding as of March 30, 2018.
During the March 2018 quarter, we shipped 87 exabytes of HDD storage capacity.
Compared to the March 2017 quarter, revenue in the March 2018 quarter increased by $129 million as a result of an increase in exabytes shipped primarily in the enterprise market, partially offset by price erosion.
Revenue for the nine months ended March 2018 quarter decreased modestly from the nine months ended March 2017 quarter as a result of price erosion, partially offset by an increase in exabytes shipped.
Compared to the corresponding three and nine months ended March 2017 quarter, gross margin as a percentage of revenue for the three and nine months ended March 2018 quarter decreased by 100 basis points in both periods, primarily driven by price erosion, partially offset by favorable product mix and cost containment efforts.
In the March 2018 quarter, total warranty cost was 0.9% of revenue and included a favorable change in estimates of prior warranty accruals of less than 0.4% of revenue primarily due to improvements in return rates on newer generation products.


item3.txt
Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio.


item4.txt
See Exhibit Index on the page to this Quarterly Report for a list of exhibits to this Quarterly Report, which Exhibit Index is incorporated herein by reference.


part2.txt
Legal, Environmental and Other Contingencies” of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
As of March 30, 2018, $0.9 billion remained available for repurchase under the existing repurchase authorization limit.


