The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements also include the balances of all voting interest entities in which Leidos has a controlling voting interest ("subsidiaries") and a variable interest entity ("VIE") in which Leidos is the primary beneficiary.
The consolidated balances of the Company’s VIE are not material to the Company’s unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for the periods presented.
Effective the beginning of fiscal 2019, certain contracts were reassigned between the Civil and Defense Solutions reportable segments (see "Note 19–Business Segments").
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued ASU 2016-02 ("ASC 842"), which supersedes the lease guidance under Leases (Topic 840) and makes several changes, such as requiring an entity to recognize a right-of-use ("ROU") asset and corresponding lease obligation on the balance sheet, classified as financing or operating, as appropriate.
The update is effective for public companies for annual and interim reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018, and should be adopted under the modified retrospective approach.
As a result of the adoption of the new standard, the Company recorded $433 million and $486 million of ROU assets and lease liabilities, respectively, primarily due to its operating leases, to the Company's consolidated balance sheets.
The update is effective for public companies for annual and interim reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2019, and should be adopted using a modified retrospective approach, which applies a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the first reporting period in which the guidance is effective.
A prospective approach is required for debt securities for which an other-than-temporary impairment had been recognized before the effective date and loans and debt securities acquired with deteriorated credit quality.
The Company is evaluating the impacts that this standard update will have on certain financial assets, including trade receivables, note receivables and receivables on sales-type leases.
ROU assets represent the Company’s right to use an underlying asset over the lease term and lease liabilities represent its obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
ROU assets and lease liabilities are recorded on the consolidated balance sheet at lease commencement date based on the present value of the future minimum lease payments over the lease term.
As the Company generally does not know the implicit rate for its leases, the discount rate used is the Company’s incremental borrowing rate which is determined based on the rate of interest that the Company would have to pay to borrow an amount equal to the lease payments on a collateralized basis over a similar term.
An ROU asset is initially measured by the present value of the remaining lease payments, plus initial direct costs and prepaid lease payments, less any lease incentives received before commencement.The increase in revenues in constant currency(1) for the three and nine months ended September 27, 2019, was 10.6% and 8.4%, as compared to an actual increase in revenues of 10.1% and 7.9%, respectively.
The foreign currency impact was mainly attributable to adverse exchange rate movements in the British pound and Australian dollar when compared to the U.S. dollar.
The increase in revenues for the three months ended September 27, 2019, as compared to the three months ended September 28, 2018, was primarily attributable to new awards and a net increase in program volumes, partially offset by the completion of certain contracts.
The increase in revenues for the nine months ended September 27, 2019, as compared to the nine months ended September 28, 2018, was primarily attributable to new awards and a net increase in program volumes, partially offset by the completion of certain contracts, lower net profit write-ups in the current year and adverse exchange rate movements in the Australian dollar when compared to the U.S. dollar.Item 1.