   ·    Results of Operations. This section provides an analysis of our financial results for the three months ended December 31, 2017 compared to the three months ended December 31, 2016. 
   ·    Liquidity and Capital Resources. This section provides an analysis of our liquidity and changes in cash flows, as well as a discussion of available borrowings and contractual commitments. 
 Unless the context indicates otherwise, references in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q to "we", "us", "our" and "the Company" refer to Brooks Automation, Inc. and its subsidiaries.  
 We are a leading global provider of automation and cryogenic solutions for multiple applications and markets. We primarily serve the semiconductor capital equipment market and sample management market for life sciences. Our leadership position and global support structure in each of these markets makes us a valued business partner to the some of the world’s largest semiconductor capital equipment and device makers, as well as pharmaceutical and life science research institutions in the world. Our offerings are also applied to industrial capital equipment and other adjacent technology markets.  
 In the life sciences sample management market, we utilize our core competencies and capabilities in automation and cryogenics to provide comprehensive bio-sample management solutions to a broad range of end markets within the life sciences industry. Our offerings include automated ultra-cold storage freezers, consumable sample storage containers, instruments which assist in the workflow of sample management, and both complete on-site and off-site full sample management services. We expect the life sciences sample management market to remain one of our principal markets for our product and service offerings and provide favorable opportunities for the growth of our overall business. Over the past several years, we have acquired and developed essential capabilities required to strategically address the sample management needs across multiple end markets within the life sciences industry. In October 2017, we acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of 4titude Limited, or 4titude, a U.K.-based manufacturer of scientific consumables for biological sample materials used in a variety of genomic and DNA analytical applications, for a total purchase price of $65.2 million, net of cash acquired. The acquisition will expand our existing offerings of consumables and instruments within the Brooks Life Sciences segment. Please refer to Note 4, “Acquisitions” in the Notes to the unaudited consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 "Consolidated Financial Statements" of this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q for further information on this transaction. Since entering the life sciences industry, we have also strengthened and broadened our product portfolio and market reach by investing in internal product development. During fiscal years 2017 and 2016, more than 23% of our cumulative research and development spending was focused on innovating and advancing solutions in the life sciences sample management market. In fiscal year 2016, we commercialized the internally developed Biostore III Cryo, an automated system which incorporates sample retrieval, archiving, monitoring, tracking, inventory control, and related enterprise systems connectivity with the industry’s leading cryogenic sample storage freezers. In fiscal year 2017, we launched BioStudies, a bioinformatics sample intelligence software platform that enables customers to manage their global samples. We expect to continue investing in research and development and making strategic acquisitions and other investments with the objective of expanding our offerings in the life sciences sample management market.   
 We report our financial results for two operating and reportable segments which consist of Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment and the Brooks Life Sciences segment.   
 Cash Flows and Liquidity- Cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities were $231.9 million at December 31, 2017 as compared to $104.3 million at September 30, 2017. The increase in cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities of $127.6 million was primarily attributable to cash inflows of $197.6 million related to proceeds from the term loan and cash inflows of $3.2 million generated from our operating activities, partially offset by cash outflows related to acquisition payments of $65.1 million, dividend payments of $7.1 million made to our shareholders during the first quarter of fiscal year 2018, as well as capital expenditures of $2.7 million. Cash inflows of $3.2 million generated from operating activities during the three months ended December 31, 2017 were comprised primarily of earnings of $27.1 million, including net income of $16.5 million and the impact of non-cash related charges of $10.6 million, partially offset by uses of cash of $23.9 million related to the changes in our operating assests and liabilities, net of acquisitions. Please refer to "Liquidity and Capital Resources" section below for a detailed discussion of our liquidity and changes in cash flows for the three months ended December 31, 2017 compared to the three months ended December 31, 2016.   
 For a summary of recently issued accounting pronouncements applicable to our unaudited consolidated financial statements, please refer to Note 2, "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" in the Notes to the unaudited consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 "Consolidated Financial Statements" of this Quartely Report on Form 10‑Q.   
 We reported revenue of $189.3 million for the three months ended December 31, 2017, compared to $160.0 million for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year, an increase of $29.4 million, or 18%. We reported revenue growth in both the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment and the Brooks Life Sciences segment. The impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates favorably affected revenue by $2.4 million during the three months ended December 31, 2017 when compared to the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.   
 Our Brooks Life Sciences segment reported revenue of $47.4 million for the three months ended December 31, 2017 compared to $33.3 million for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase of $14.1 million, or 42%, was primarily from internal growth of $7.7 million, principally in sample storage services, automated storage systems, consumables and instruments, and software. Additionally, the acquisitions of 4titude, Pacific Bio-Material Management, Inc. and Novare, LLC, or PBMMI, and Cool Lab, LLC, or Cool Lab, contributed incremental revenue of $6.4 million. Brooks’ Life Sciences internal revenue growth was favorably affected by foreign currency exchange rates which increased revenue by $0.5 million during the three months ended December 31, 2017 as compared to the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.  
 Revenue generated outside the United States amounted to $117.2 million, or 62% of total revenue, for the three months ended December 31, 2017 compared to $106.8 million, or 67% of total revenue, for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. We have one customer within the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment that accounted for approximately 11% of our consolidated revenue during each of the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016.  
 We reported gross margins of 39.7% for the three months ended December 31, 2017 compared to 35.6% for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Gross margin increased in the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment by 6.0 percentage points and declined in the Brooks Life Sciences segment by 1.2 percentage points. Cost of revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 included $0.9 million and $1.0 million, respectively, of charges for amortization related to completed technology, as well as $1.2 million and $0.1 million, respectively, of charges related to the sale of inventories obtained in acquisitions to which a step-up in value was applied in purchase accounting. Excluding the purchasing accounting impact and the amortization of completed technology, margins expanded 4.6 percentage points.  
 Our Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment reported gross margins of 41.9% for the three months ended December 31, 2017 as compared to 35.9% for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase is driven by a favorable mix, volume leverage, lower costs related to materials and our service operations and a favorable impact of   
 changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Cost of revenue during the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 included $0.5 million and $0.6 million, respectively, of amortization related to completed technology. Excluding the amortization of completed technology, margins expanded 5.9 percentage points.   
 Our Brooks Life Sciences segment reported gross margins of 33.2% for the three months ended December 31, 2017 as compared to 34.4% for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease was a result of higher production costs and higher charges related to the sale of inventories obtained in acquisitions to which a step-up in value was applied in purchase accounting. Such charges were $1.2 million during the three months ended December 31, 2017 compared to $0.1 million during the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. These increases were partially offset by a more favorable mix of products and services, volume leverage and higher margins on automated storage systems, consumables, and sample storage services. Cost of revenue during each of the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 also included $0.4 million of amortization related to completed technology. Excluding the purchasing accounting impact and the amortization of completed technology, margins expanded 0.7 percentage points.  
 Research and development expenses were $13.2 million during the three months ended December 31, 2017 as compared to $10.8 million during the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase of $2.4 million reflects higher costs of $1.4 million within the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment and $1.0 million within the Brooks Life Sciences segment which were primarily attributable to higher employee-related costs and project spending to support new product development and the growth of our business.   
 Gain on Settlement of Equity Method Investment- During the three months ended December 31, 2016, we recognized a gain of $1.8 million on the settlement of the equity method investment in BioCision which was included as a part of the non-cash consideration for an acquisition of Cool Lab in November 2016. Please refer to Note 3, “Acquisitions” to our consolidated financial statements included in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information on this transaction.  
 Interest Expense- During the three months ended December 31, 2017, we recorded interest expense of $2.2 million which was primarily related to the term loan originated on October 4, 2017. Please refer to the “Liquidity and Capital Resources” section below for further information on the term loan.  
 Other expenses, net. During the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, we recorded other expenses, net of $1.7 million and $0.3 million respectively. The increase of $1.4 million was primarily attributable to an increase in foreign currency exchange losses during the three months ended December 31, 2017 as compared to the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Please refer to Item 3. “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk – Currency Rate Exposure” in this Quartely Report on Form 10-Q for additional information about these currency exchange losses. Additionally, we recognized higher losses of $0.2 million during the first quarter of fiscal year 2017 related to fair value measurement of convertible debt securities in BioCision. Please refer to Note 3, “Acquisitions” to our consolidated financial statements included on the 2017 Annual Report in the Form 10-K for further information on this transaction.  
 As a result of Tax Reform, we calculated its U.S. tax provision for the three months ended December 31, 2017 using a blended U.S. statutory tax rate of 24.5%, which is a prorated allocation of the 35% rate which was in effect prior to tax reform through December 31, 2017 and the 21% rate which will be in effect for the remainder of the fiscal year. The Company recorded a discrete benefit of $0.7 million in the three months ended December 31, 2017 due to the impact of the U.S. rate change on its net U.S. deferred tax liabilities.  
 During the three months ended December 31, 2017, we recorded income of $2.2 million from our equity method investments as compared to $1.9 million during the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase of $0.2 million was primarily attributable to higher income generated from ULVAC Cryogenics, Inc., or UCI, during the first quarter of fiscal year 2018 as compared to the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.  
 During the three months ended December 31, 2016, we incurred losses of $0.5 million from our investment in BioCision which was settled during the first quarter of fiscal year 2017 as a part of the non-cash consideration for the acquisition of Cool Lab in November 2016. Please refer to Note 3, “Acquisitions” to our consolidated financial statements and “Equity in Earnings of Equity Method Investments” section of Item 7, “Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information on this transaction.  
 Our cash balances are held in numerous locations throughout the world, with substantial majority of those amounts located in the United States. As of December 31, 2017, we had cash and cash equivalents of $202.3 million, of which $81.2 million was held outside of the United States. If these funds are needed for U.S. operations, we would be required to accrue withholding tax liabilities to repatriate these funds. As a result of recent changes in U.S. tax legislation, any repatriation in the future would not result in U.S. federal income tax. Our intent is to permanently reinvest these funds outside of the United States and our current operating plans do not demonstrate a need to repatriate these funds for our U.S. operations. At December 31, 2017 and September 30, 2017, we had marketable securities of $29.5 million and $2.7 million, respectively, which were held in the United States. Our marketable securities are generally readily convertible to cash without an adverse impact. We believe that our current cash balance, marketable securities portfolio, access to the revolving line of credit, as well as to debt and capital markets along with cash flows from operations will satisfy working capital, financing activities, debt service and capital expenditure requirements for the next twelve months.  
 On October 4, 2017, we entered into a $200.0 million Senior Secured Term Loan Facility, or the term loan, with Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, or collectively, the lenders. The term loan was issued at $197.6 million, or 98.8% of its par value, resulting in a discount of $2.4 million, or 1.2%, which represented loan origination fees paid at the closing. We incurred additional deferred financing costs of $0.4 million during the three months ended December 31, 2017. At December 31, 2017, the outstanding term loan principal balance was $200.0 million, net of unamortized deferred financing costs of $2.7 million. The loan proceeds will be used for acquisitions and general corporate purposes. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $51.1 million available for borrowing under the line of credit. There were no amounts outstanding pursuant to the line of credit as of December 31, 2017 and September 30, 2017. The amount of funds available for borrowing under the line of credit arrangement may fluctuate each period based on our borrowing base availability. Please refer to the “Capital Resources” section below for further information on the term loan and the line of credit.   
 Cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities were $231.9 million at December 31, 2017 as compared to $104.3 million at September 30, 2017. The increase in cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities of $127.6 was primarily attributable to cash inflows of $197.6 million related to proceeds from the term loan and cash inflows of $3.2 million generated from our operating activities, partially offset by cash outflows related to acquisitions of $65.1 million, dividend payments of $7.1 million made to our shareholders during the first quarter of fiscal year 2018, as well as capital expenditures of $2.7 million.   
 Cash flows from operating activities can fluctuate significantly from period to period as earnings, working capital needs and the timing of payments for income taxes, restructuring activities and other operating charges impact reported cash flows.  
 Cash flows provided by operating activities were $3.2 million during the three months ended December 31, 2017, comprised primarily of earnings of $27.1 million, including net income of $16.5 million and the impact of non-cash related charges of $10.6 million, partially offset by the uses of cash of $23.9 million related to the changes in our operating assets and liabilities. The changes in operating assets and liabilities that resulted in a use of cash consisted primarily of an increase in accounts receivable as a result of higher revenue and timing of billings, a decrease in accrued compensation and tax withholdings as a result of year-end cash incentive bonus payments and an increase in inventory levels to support the growth of our business. These uses of cash were partially offset by sources of cash related primarily to increases in accounts payable and prepaid expenses and other current assets.   
 Cash flows provided by operating activities were $18.7 million during the three months ended December 31, 2016 and comprised primarily of earnings of $18.9 million, including net income of $13.9 million and the impact of non-cash related charges of $5.0 million, partially offset by the uses of cash of $0.2 million related to the changes in our operating assets and liabilities. The changes in operating assets and liabilities that resulted in a use of cash were comprised primarily of an increase in accounts receivable as a result of higher revenue and timing of billings and decreased accrued 
compensation and tax withholdings as a result of year end incentive bonus payments. These uses of cash were partially offset by sources of cash related primarily to increases in accounts payable and deferred revenue due to the timing of customer billings.   
 Cash flows from investing activities consist primarily of cash used for acquisitions, capital expenditures and purchases of marketable securities, as well as cash proceeds generated from sales and maturities of marketable securities.  
 Cash used in investing activities of $9.3 million during the three months ended December 31, 2016 included a cash payment of $5.3 million for the acquisitions and $3.8 million of capital expenditures.  
  Capital expenditures are made primarily for increasing capacity, replacing equipment, supporting new product development and improving information technology infrastructure. Capital expenditures were $2.7 million during the first quarter of fiscal year 2018 as compared to $3.8 million during the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease of $1.1 million was primarily attributable to lower investments made in our capital asset infrastructure during the first quarter of fiscal year 2018 compared to the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.  
 On October 4, 2017, we entered into the $200.0 million term loan with the lenders. The term loan was issued at $197.6 million, or 98.8% of its par value, resulting in a discount of $2.4 million, or 1.2%, which represented loan origination fees paid at the closing. We incurred additional deferred financing costs of $0.4 million during the three months ended December 31, 2017. The loan proceeds are used for acquisitions and general corporate purposes. Please refer to Note 8, "Debt" in the Notes to the unaudited consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 "Consolidated Financial Statements" on this Form 10-Q for further information on the terms and conditions of the term loan.   
 At December 31, 2017, the outstanding term loan principal balance was $200.0 million, excluding unamortized deferred financing costs of $2.7 million. The term loan matures and becomes fully payable on October 4, 2024. Installment principal payments equal to 0.25% of the initial principal amount of the term loan are payable on the last day of each quarter, with any remaining principal amount becoming due and payable on the maturity date. We will begin making principal payments under the term loan starting with the second quarter of fiscal year 2018. Subject to certain conditions stated in the term loan agreement, we may redeem the term loan at any time at our option without a significant premium or penalty, except for a repricing transaction, as defined in the term loan agreement. We would also be required to redeem the term loan at the principal amount then outstanding upon occurrence of certain events, as set forth in the term loan agreement. Commencing on December 31, 2018, we will be required to make principal payments 
equal to the excess cash flow amount, as defined in the term loan agreement. Please refer to Note 8, "Debt" in the Notes to the unaudited consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 "Consolidated Financial Statements" on this Form 10-Q for further information on future minimum principal payment obligations under the term loan as of December 31, 2017.   
 The term loan agreement contains certain customary representations and warranties, covenants and events of default. As of December 31, 2017, we were in compliance with all covenants and conditions under the term loan agreement.  
 We maintain a revolving line of credit with Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A that provides for revolving credit financing of up to $75.0 million, subject to borrowing base availability, as defined in the line of credit agreement. The line of credit matures on October 4, 2022. The proceeds from the line of credit are available for permitted acquisitions and general corporate purposes. Please refer to Note 7, "Line of Credit" in the Notes to the unaudited consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 "Consolidated Financial Statements" on this Form 10-Q for further information on the terms and conditions of the line of credit.   
 As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $51.1 million available for borrowing under the line of credit. There were no amounts outstanding pursuant to the line of credit as of December 31, 2017 and September 30, 2017. The amount of funds available for borrowing under the line of credit arrangement may fluctuate each period based on our borrowing base availability. The line of credit contains certain customary representations and warranties, a financial covenant, affirmative and negative covenants, as well as events of default. We were in compliance with the line of credit covenants as of December 31, 2017 and September 30, 2017. We believe we will be able to generate sufficient cash in the United States and foreign jurisdictions to fund future operating costs. We secured the revolving line of credit as an additional assurance for maintaining liquidity in the United States during potentially severe downturns of the cyclical semiconductor market, as well as for strategic investments and acquisitions.   
 On July 27, 2016, we filed a registration statement on Form S-3 with the SEC to sell securities, including common stock, preferred stock, warrants, debt securities, depository shares, purchase contracts and purchase units in amounts to be determined at the time of an offering. Any such offering, if it does occur, may happen in one or more transactions. The specific terms of any securities to be sold will be described in supplemental filings with the SEC. This registration statement will expire on July 27, 2019.   
 On January 31, 2018, our Board of Directors approved a cash dividend of $0.10 per share of our common stock. The total dividend of approximately $7.0 million will be paid on March 23, 2018 to shareholders of record at the close of business on March 2, 2018. Dividends are declared at the discretion of our Board of Directors and depend on actual cash 
flow from operations, our financial condition, debt service and capital requirements, as well as any other factors our Board of Directors may consider relevant. We intend to pay quarterly cash dividends in the future; however, the amount and timing of these dividends may be impacted by the cyclical nature of certain markets we serve. We may reduce, delay or cancel a quarterly cash dividend based on the severity of a cyclical downturn.  
 As of December 31, 2017, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S-K.  
 Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds  
