 (In thousands, except share and per share data)  
 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited consolidated financial statements.  
 (In thousands, except per share data)  
 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited consolidated financial statements.  
 (In thousands)  
 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited consolidated financial statements.  
 (In thousands)  
 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited consolidated financial statements.  
 1. Basis of Presentation  
 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies  
 Foreign Currency Translation  
 As of December 31, 2017, the Company had no assets or liabilities measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis using Level 3 inputs.  
 Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements  
 In March 2016, the FASB issued an amendment to the accounting guidance to simplify accounting for embedded derivatives. The amendment clarifies the requirements for assessing whether contingent call (put) options that can accelerate the payment of principal on debt instruments are clearly and closely related to the debt host contracts. An entity performing the assessment in accordance with this guidance is required to assess the embedded call (put) options solely in accordance with the four-step decision process set forth in the guidance. The guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2016. The Company adopted the guidance during the first quarter of fiscal year 2018 which had no impact on its financial position and results of operations.  
 In February 2016, the FASB issued new accounting guidance for reporting lease transactions. In accordance with the provisions of the newly issued guidance, a lessee should recognize at the inception of the arrangement a right-of-use asset and a corresponding lease liability initially measured at the present value of lease payments over the lease term. For finance leases, interest on a lease liability should be recognized separately from the amortization of the right-of-use asset, while for operating leases, total lease costs are recorded on a straight-line basis over the lease term. For leases with a term of twelve months or less, a lessee is permitted to make an accounting policy election by class of underlying assets to forgo a recognition of right-of-use assets and corresponding lease liabilities and record a lease expense on a straight-line basis. Entities should determine at the inception of the arrangement whether a contract represents a lease or contains a lease which is defined as a right to control the use of identified property for a period of time in exchange for consideration. Additionally, entities should separate the lease components from the non-lease components and allocate the contract consideration on a relative standalone price basis in accordance with provisions of ASC Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers. The guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2018 and should be adopted via a modified retrospective approach with certain optional practical expedients that entities may elect to apply. The Company expects to adopt the guidance during the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 and is currently evaluating the impact of this guidance on its financial position and results of operations.  
 In June 2016, the FASB issued new accounting guidance for reporting credit losses. The new guidance introduces a new "expected loss" impairment model that applies to most financial assets measured at amortized cost and certain other instruments, including trade and other receivables, loans, held-to-maturity debt securities and other financial assets. Entities are required to estimate expected credit losses over the life of financial assets and record an allowance against the assets’ amortized cost basis to present them at the amount expected to be collected. Additionally, the guidance amends the impairment model for available for sale debt securities and requires entities to determine whether all or a portion of the unrealized loss on such debt security is a credit loss. The guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2019. Early adoption of the newly issued guidance is permitted for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2018. The standard should be applied as a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the first reporting period in which the guidance is effective. The Company expects to adopt the guidance during the first quarter of fiscal year 2021 and is currently evaluating the impact of this guidance on its financial position and results of operations.  
 Other  
 The Company invests in marketable securities that are classified as available-for-sale and records them at fair value in the Company’s unaudited Consolidated Balance Sheets. Marketable securities reported as current assets represent investments that mature within one year from the balance sheet date. Long-term marketable securities represent investments with maturity dates greater than one year from the balance sheet date. The securities are valued using matrix pricing and benchmarking and classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy because they are not actively traded. Matrix pricing is a mathematical technique used to value securities by relying on the securities’ relationship to other benchmark quoted prices.  
 Expected maturities could differ from contractual maturities because the security issuers may have the right to prepay obligations without prepayment penalties.  
 Cash equivalents of $64.2 million and less than $0.1 million, respectively, at December 31, 2017 and September 30, 2017 consist of money market funds and are classified within Level 1 of fair value hierarchy because they are valued using quoted market prices in active markets. Cash equivalents of $9.1 million and less than $0.1 million, respectively at December 31, 2017 and September 30, 2017 consist primarily of U.S. government agency obligations, municipal securities and bank certificates of deposits with original maturities of less than 90 days and are classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy because they are not actively traded.   
 Acquisitions Completed in Fiscal Year 2018  
 Acquisition of 4titude Limited  
 On October 5, 2017, the Company acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of 4titude Limited (“4titude”), a U.K.-based manufacturer of scientific consumables for biological sample materials used in a variety of genomic and DNA analytical applications. The acquisition of 4titude will expand the Company’s existing offerings of consumables and instruments within the Brooks Life Sciences segment. The aggregate purchase price of $65.2 million, net of cash acquired, consisted primarily of a cash payment of $64.7 million subject to working capital adjustments and the assumption of the seller’s liabilities of $0.5 million.  
 The Company used a market participant approach to record the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the 4titude acquisition. The purchase price allocation is based on a preliminary valuation and is subject to further adjustments within the measurement period as additional information becomes available related to the fair value of such assets acquired and liabilities assumed. The fair values of inventory, property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, accrued liabilities, tax-related matters and residual goodwill were preliminary as of December 31, 2017. The Company will refine such fair value estimates as new information becomes available during the measurement period. Any adjustments to the purchase price allocation will be made as soon as practicable but no later than one year from the acquisition date.  
 Fair values of intangible assets acquired consisted of customer relationships of $21.4 million, completed technology of $5.2 million, backlog of $0.4 million and trademarks of $0.2 million. The Company used the income approach in accordance with the excess-earnings method to estimate the fair values of customer relationships, backlog and trademarks equal to the present value of the after-tax cash flows attributable to each intangible asset. The Company used the income approach in accordance with the relief-from-royalty method to estimate the fair value of the completed technology which is equal to the present value of the after-tax royalty savings attributable to owning that intangible asset. The weighted average amortization periods for intangible assets acquired are 13 years for completed technology, 10 years for customer relationship intangible assets, 1 year for backlog and 1 year for trademarks. The intangible assets acquired are amortized over the total weighted average period of 10.4 years using methods that approximate the pattern in which the economic benefits are expected to be realized.   
 At the closing of the acquisition of 4titude, a cash payment of $0.4 million was placed into escrow which was ascribed to the purchase price. The escrow was related to potential working capital adjustments and the sellers’ satisfaction of general representations and warranties. The escrow balance was $0.4 million as of December 31, 2017.   
 Goodwill represents the excess of the consideration transferred over the fair value of the net assets acquired and has been assigned to the Brooks Life Sciences segment. Goodwill is primarily the result of expected synergies from combining the operations of 4titude with the Company’s operations and is not deductible for tax purposes.  
 Acquisitions Completed in Fiscal Year 2017  
 Acquisition of Pacific Bio-Material Management, Inc. and Novare, LLC  
 At the closing of the acquisition of PBMMI, a cash payment of $3.3 million was placed into escrow which was ascribed to the purchase price. The escrow balance of $3.3 million included $2.9 million related to satisfaction of the sellers' indemnification obligations with respect to their representations and warranties and other indemnities, as well as $0.4 million payable to the former owner of Novare as a compensation for a sale of his ownership interest. This escrow arrangement is administered by the Company on behalf of the sellers. The escrow balances were $2.9 million and $0.3 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2017.  
 Acquisition of Cool Lab, LLC  
 On November 28, 2016, the Company acquired 100% of the equity of Cool Lab, LLC ("Cool Lab") from BioCision, LLC ("BioCision"). The Company held a 20% equity ownership interest in BioCision prior to the acquisition. The Company used a market participant approach to record the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the Cool Lab acquisition. The purchase price allocation were finalized as of December 31, 2017. Please refer to Note 3, “Acquisitions” to the Company’s consolidated financial statements included in the 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information on this transaction.  
 The Company recorded a liability of $0.7 million in the purchase price allocation that represented a preacquisition contingency incurred on the acquisition date. The obligation is related to a rebate that is due to a particular customer if the annual product sales volume metrics exceed threshold amounts under the provisions of the contract assumed by the Company. Fair value of such liability was determined based on a probability weighted discounted cash flow model. The carrying amount of the liability was $0.8 million and $0.7 million, respectively, at December 31, 2017 and September 30, 2017.   
 5. Goodwill and Intangible Assets  
 Goodwill represents the excess of net book value over the estimated fair value of net tangible and identifiable intangible assets of a reporting unit. Goodwill is tested for impairment annually or more often if impairment indicators are present at the reporting unit level. The Company elected April 1 as its annual goodwill impairment assessment date and performs additional impairment tests if triggering events occur. If events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce fair values of the reporting units below their carrying values, goodwill will be evaluated for impairment between annual tests. No triggering events indicating goodwill impairment occurred during the three months ended December 31, 2017. Please refer to Note 6, "Goodwill and Intangible Assets" to the Company's consolidated 
financial statements included in the 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information on the goodwill impairment testing performed during fiscal year 2017.  
 During the three months ended December 31, 2017, the Company recorded a goodwill increase of $39.1 million primarily related to the acquisition of 4titude which represented the excess of the consideration transferred over the fair value of the net assets acquired. Please refer to the Note 4 "Acquisitions" for further information on this transaction.  
 Amortization expense for intangible assets was $5.5 million and $4.1 million, respectively, during the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016.  
 6. Equity Method Investments  
 The Company and ULVAC Corporation of Chigasaki, Japan each own a 50% stake in the joint venture, ULVAC Cryogenics, Inc (“UCI”). UCI manufactures and sells cryogenic vacuum pumps, principally to ULVAC Corporation.  
 The carrying value of the investment in UCI was $30.9 million and $28.6 million, respectively, at December 31, 2017 and September 30, 2017. During the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, the Company recorded income of $2.2 million and $2.4 million, respectively, representing its proportionate share of UCI’s earnings. Management fee payments received by the Company from UCI were $0.3 million during each of the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016.   
 7. Line of Credit  
 The Company maintains a revolving line of credit with Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A that provides for revolving credit financing of up to $75 million, subject to borrowing base availability, as defined in the line of credit agreement. The line of credit matures on October 4, 2022 and expires no less than 90 days prior to the term loan expiration. The proceeds from the line of credit are available for permitted acquisitions and general corporate purposes.   
 On October 4, 2017, the Company entered into a $200.0 million term loan with the lenders. The term loan was issued at $197.6 million, or 98.8% of its par value, resulting in a discount of $2.4 million, or 1.2%, which represented loan origination fees paid at the closing. The Company incurred additional deferred financing costs of $0.4 million during the three months ended December 31, 2017. The loan proceeds are be used for general corporate purposes, including acquisitions. The loan principal amount may be increased by an aggregate amount equal to $75.0 million plus any voluntary repayments of the term loans plus an amount such that the secured leverage ratio of the Company is less than 3.00 to 1.00.   
 The Company’s obligations under the term loan are guaranteed by the Company’s wholly-owned subsidiary, BioStorage Technologies, Inc. (the “guarantor”), subject to the terms and conditions of the term loan agreement. The Company and the guarantor granted the lenders a perfected first priority security interest in substantially all of the assets of the Company and the guarantor to secure the repayment of the term loan.  
 The term loan matures and becomes fully payable on October 4, 2024. The principal is payable in installments equal to 0.25% of the initial principal amount of the term loans on March 31st, June 30th, September 30th and December 31st of each year, with any remaining amount of principal becoming due and payable on the maturity date. The Company is required to begin making principal payments commencing with the second quarter of fiscal year 2018. All accrued and unpaid interest on ABR Borrowings shall be due and payable at the same time as the loan principal installments. All accrued and unpaid interest on Eurodollar Borrowings shall be due on the last day of each interest period elected by the Company for such Eurodollar Borrowings, except for interest periods of more than three months in which case all accrued and unpaid interest shall be due and payable every three months.  
 Subject to certain conditions stated in the term loan agreement, the Company may redeem the term loan at any time at its option without a significant premium or penalty, except for a repricing transaction, as defined in the term loan agreement, which is subject to a premium of 1.00% of the loan principal amount during the first six months of the loan term. The Company would be required to redeem the term loan at the principal amount then outstanding upon occurrence of certain events, including (i) net proceeds received from the sale or other disposition of the Company’s or guarantor’ assets, subject to certain limitations, (ii) casualty and condemnation proceeds received by the Company or the guarantor, subject to certain exceptions, (iii) net proceeds received by the Company or the guarantor from the issuance of debt or disqualified capital stock after October 4, 2017. Commencing on December 31, 2018, the Company will be required to make principal payments equal to the excess cash flow amount, as defined in the term loan agreement. Such prepayments are equal to 50% of the preceding year excess cash flow amount reduced by voluntary prepayments of the term loan, subject to certain limitations.   
 The Company records commitment fees and other costs directly associated with obtaining term loan financing as deferred financing costs which are presented as a reduction of the term loan principal balance in the accompanying unaudited Consolidated Balance Sheets. Such costs are accreted over the term of the loan using the effective interest rate method and are included in “Interest expense” in the accompanying unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations. At December 31, 2017, deferred financing costs were $2.7 million.   
 The term loan agreement contains certain customary representations and warranties, covenants and events of default. If any of the events of default occur and are not waived or cured within applicable grace periods, any unpaid amounts under the term loan agreement will bear an annual interest rate at 2.00% above the rate otherwise applicable under the terms and conditions of such agreement. The term loan agreement does not contain financial maintenance covenants. As of December 31, 2017, the Company was in compliance with all covenants and conditions under the term loan agreement.   
 As of December 31, 2017, estimated fair value of the term loan outstanding principal balance approximates its carrying value. The fair value was determined based on observable market inputs and classified within Level 2 of fair value hierarchy due to a lack of an active market for this term loan or a similar loan instrument.   
where the accounting is incomplete. These amounts are subject to adjustments during a measurement period of up to one year beginning in the reporting period of the enactment date.  
 10. Other Balance Sheet Information  
 Reserves for excess and obsolete inventory were $22.9 million and $23.5 million, respectively, at December 31, 2017 and September 30, 2017.  
 During the three months ended December 31, 2017 and the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017, the Company had cumulative capitalized direct costs of $5.0 million and $4.7 million, respectively, associated with the development of software for its internal use which are included within "Property, plant and equipment, net" in the accompanying unaudited Consolidated Balance Sheets. During the three months ended December 31, 2017, the Company capitalized direct costs of $0.3 million associated with development of software for its internal use.  
 Stock Grants  
to the Company as Board members. There were no annual awards of unrestricted shares of the Company stock and compensation-related restricted stock units granted to the members of the Company's Board of Directors during the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.  
 Performance-based restricted stock units are earned based on the achievement of performance criteria established by the Human Resources and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. The criteria for performance-based awards are weighted and have threshold, target and maximum performance goals.  
 Performance-based awards granted in fiscal year 2017 allow participants to earn 100% of a targeted number of restricted stock units if the Company’s performance meets its target for each applicable financial metric, and up to a maximum of 200% of the restricted stock units target if the Company’s performance for such metrics meets the maximum threshold. Performance below the minimum threshold for each financial metric results in award forfeitures. Performance goals will be measured over a three year period at the end of fiscal year 2020 to determine the number of units earned by recipients who continue to meet a service requirement. Units held by recipients who fail to meet the continued service requirement are forfeited. Earned units for recipients who continue to meet the service requirements vest on the date the Company’s Board of Directors determines the number of units earned, which will be approximately the third anniversary of the grant date.  
 Performance-based awards granted in fiscal year 2016 also include provisions that allow participants to earn threshold, target and maximum awards ranging from 0% of the award for performance below the minimum threshold, 100% of the award for performance at target, and up to a maximum of 200% of the award if the Company achieves the maximum performance goals.  
 Restricted Stock Unit Activity  
 The weighted average grant date fair value of restricted stock units granted during the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 was $34.25 and $13.93, respectively. The fair value of restricted stock units vested during the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 was $19.0 million and $11.3 million, respectively. During the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, the Company remitted $6.3 million and $3.8 million, respectively, for withholding taxes on vested restricted stock units, of which $0.1 million was paid by the Company during the three months ended December 31, 2016. There were no taxes on vested restricted stock units paid by the Company during the three months ended December 31, 2017. During the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, the Company received $6.3 million and $3.7 million, respectively, in cash proceeds from employees to satisfy their tax obligations as a result of share issuances.  
 As of December 31, 2017, the unrecognized compensation cost related to restricted stock units that are expected to vest is $33.2 million and will be recognized over an estimated weighted average service period of approximately 1.9 years.  
 Employee Stock Purchase Plan  
 The Company maintains an Employee Stock Purchase Plan that allows its employees to purchase shares of common stock at a price equal to 85% of the fair market value of the Company’s stock at the beginning or the end of the semi-annual period, whichever is lower. There were no shares purchased by employees or issued by the Company under the employee stock purchase plan during the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016.  
 12. Earnings per Share  
 During the three months ended December 31, 2017, 190,000 antidilutive restricted stock units were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share based on the treasury stock method. There were no such awards during the three months ended December 31, 2016.   
 As of December 31, 2017, accrued restructuring costs of $1.1 million were primarily attributable to the restructuring actions within the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment and comprised primarily of $0.8 million related to the consolidation of the Jena, Germany repair facility and $0.2 million related to streamlining field service operations. Accrued restructuring costs are expected to be paid within the next twelve months. Please refer to Note 15, “Restructuring and Other Charges” to the Company’s consolidated financial statements included in the 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information on the restructuring actions discussed above.   
 The Company had one customer within the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment that accounted for 10% or more of its consolidated revenue, at 11%, during each of the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016. As of December 31, 2017 and September 30, 2017, the Company had no customers that accounted for 10% or more of the Company’s total receivables.  
 For purposes of determining the percentage of revenue generated from any of the Company’s original equipment manufacturer (the "OEM") customers, the Company does not include revenue from products sold to contract manufacturer customers who in turn sell to the OEMs. If the Company included revenue from products sold to contract manufacturer customers supporting the Company’s OEM customers, the percentage of the Company’s total revenue derived from certain OEM customers would be higher.  
 16. Commitments and Contingencies  
 Purchase Commitments  
 The Company has non-cancellable contracts and purchase orders for inventory of $128.6 million and $122.0 million, respectively, at December 31, 2017 and September 30, 2017.  
 Dividend  
 On January 31, 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.10 per share payable on March 23, 2018 to common stockholders of record as of March 2, 2018. Dividends are declared at the discretion of the Company’s Board of Directors and depend on the Company’s actual cash flows from operations, its financial condition and capital requirements and any other factors the Company’s Board of Directors may consider relevant. Future dividend declarations, as well as the record and payment dates for such dividends, will be determined by the Company’s Board of Directors on a quarterly basis.  
 Item 1. Legal Proceedings   
 Item 1A. Risk Factors   
