 (In thousands, except share and per share data)  
 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited consolidated financial statements.  
 (In thousands, except per share data)  
 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited consolidated financial statements.  
 (In thousands)  
 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited consolidated financial statements.  
 (In thousands)  
 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited consolidated financial statements.  
 1. Basis of Presentation  
 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies  
 Foreign Currency Translation  
 Foreign currency exchange losses generated from the settlement and remeasurement of these transactions are recognized in earnings and presented within “Other expenses, net” in the Company’s unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations. Net foreign currency transaction and remeasurement losses totaled $0.6 million and $0.7 million, respectively, during the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, and $3.1 million and $1.6 million, respectively, during the nine months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017.  
 As of June 30, 2018, the Company had no assets or liabilities measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis using Level 3 inputs.  
 Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements  
 In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), an amendment of the FASB Accounting Standards Codification. In accordance with the provisions of the newly issued guidance, a lessee should recognize at the inception of the arrangement a right-of-use asset and a corresponding lease liability initially measured at the present value of lease payments over the lease term. For finance leases, interest on a lease liability should be recognized separately from the amortization of the right-of-use asset, while for operating leases, total lease costs are recorded on a 
straight-line basis over the lease term. For leases with a term of twelve months or less, a lessee is permitted to make an accounting policy election by class of underlying assets to forgo a recognition of right-of-use assets and corresponding lease liabilities and record a lease expense on a straight-line basis. Entities should determine at the inception of the arrangement whether a contract represents a lease or contains a lease which is defined as a right to control the use of identified property for a period of time in exchange for consideration. Additionally, entities should separate the lease components from the non-lease components and allocate the contract consideration on a relative standalone price basis in accordance with provisions of ASC Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers. The guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2018 and should be adopted via a modified retrospective approach with certain optional practical expedients that entities may elect to apply. The Company expects to adopt the guidance during the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 and is currently evaluating the impact of this guidance on its financial position and results of operations.  
 In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Financial Instruments—Credit Losses (Topic 326), an amendment of the FASB Accounting Standards Codification. The new guidance introduces a new "expected loss" impairment model that applies to most financial assets measured at amortized cost and certain other instruments, including trade and other receivables, loans, held-to-maturity debt securities and other financial assets. Entities are required to estimate expected credit losses over the life of financial assets and record an allowance against the assets’ amortized cost basis to present the assets at the amount expected to be collected. Additionally, the guidance amends the impairment model for available for sale debt securities and requires entities to determine whether all or a portion of the unrealized loss on such debt security is a credit loss. The guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2019. Early adoption of the newly issued guidance is permitted for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2018. The standard should be applied as a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the first reporting period in which the guidance is effective. The Company expects to adopt the guidance during the first quarter of fiscal year 2021 and is currently evaluating the impact of this guidance on its financial position and results of operations.  
 The Company will adopt this standard effective October 1, 2018, using the modified retrospective method and will only apply this method to contracts that are not completed as of the effective date and all new contracts initiated on or after the effective date. The modified retrospective method will result in the cumulative effect adjustment being recorded as of the effective date.   
 Other  
 The Company invests in marketable securities that are classified as available-for-sale and records them at fair value in the Company’s unaudited Consolidated Balance Sheets. Marketable securities reported as current assets represent investments that mature within one year from the balance sheet date. Long-term marketable securities represent investments with maturity dates greater than one year from the balance sheet date. The securities are valued using matrix pricing and benchmarking and classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy because they are not actively traded. Matrix pricing is a mathematical technique used to value securities by relying on the securities’ relationship to other benchmark quoted prices.  
 Expected maturities could differ from contractual maturities because the security issuers may have the right to prepay obligations without prepayment penalties.  
 Cash equivalents of $50.3 million and less than $0.1 million, respectively, at June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017 consist of money market funds and are classified within Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy because they are valued using quoted market prices in active markets. Cash equivalents of $0.5 million and less than $0.1 million, respectively, at June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017 consist primarily of bank certificates of deposits with original maturities of less than 90 days and are classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy because they are not actively traded.   
 Acquisitions Completed in Fiscal Year 2018  
 Acquisition of BioSpeciMan   
 On April 20, 2018, the Company acquired BioSpeciMan Corporation (“BioSpeciMan”), a Canadian provider of storage services for biological sample materials. BioSpeciMan, founded in 2002, provides temperature controlled biological sample storage services to an attractive mix of pharma, biotech and contract lab customers. This acquisition is expected to expand customer relationships and geographic reach within its growing sample management storage services business in the Brooks Life Sciences segment. The total cash payment made by the Company was $5.2 million, net of cash acquired and subject to working capital adjustments.   
  The Company allocated the purchase price of $5.2 million based on the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired as of the acquisition date, which included $0.3 million of accounts receivable, $2.6 million of customer relationships, $2.7 million of goodwill and $0.7 million of assumed liabilities. The Company applied the excess earnings method, a variation of the income approach to determine the fair value of the customer relationship intangible asset. The purchase price allocation was based on a preliminary valuation which is subject to further adjustments within the measurement period when additional information becomes available. The goodwill from this acquisition is reported within the Brooks Life Sciences segment and is not tax deductible.  
 At the acquisition date, a cash payment of $0.5 million was held back for potential working capital adjustments and the sellers' satisfaction of general representations and warranties. These holdback payments were ascribed to the purchase price.   
 Acquisition of Tec-Sem  
 On April 6, 2018, the Company acquired approximately 93% of the outstanding capital stock of Tec-Sem Group AG (“Tec-Sem”), a Switzerland-based manufacturer of semiconductor fabrication automation equipment with a focus on reticle management. The total cash payment made by the Company as of June 30, 2018 was $12.8 million, net of cash acquired and subject to working capital adjustments. The Company expects to acquire the remaining 7% noncontrolling interest upon the completion of certain procedural steps. The acquisition of Tec-Sem expands the Company’s contamination control solutions business within the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment.   
   The Company applied variations of the income approach to estimate the fair values of the intangibles assets acquired. The identifiable intangible assets include completed technology (excess earnings method) of $8.4 million with a useful life of 10 years, backlog (excess earnings method) of $1.6 million with a useful life of 1 year, and customer relationships (distributor method) of $0.7 million with a useful life of 9 years. The intangible assets acquired are amortized over the total weighted average period of 8.6 years using methods that approximate the pattern in which the economic benefits are expected to be realized.   
 Goodwill of $7.6 million largely reflects the potential synergies and expansion of technical capabilities to the Company's existing contamination control solutions business. The goodwill from this acquisition is reported within the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment and is not tax deductible.   
 As part of the acquisition, the Company assumed all the assets and liabilities of Tec-Sem’s Swiss defined benefit plan, which covered substantially all its full-time employees. At acquisition date, the plan was fully funded for each employee’s pension contribution plus an expected rate of return equal to the statutory discount rate. Total plan assets were $6.2 million at acquisition date. The Company recorded an additional liability of $3.3 million for the unfunded 
projected benefit obligation related to each plan participant’s future services. The total liability for this plan is $9.5 million.  
 The fair value of the Company’s noncontrolling interest in Tec-Sem represents the expected amount to be settled in cash upon acquisition of the remaining 7% interest.   
 The Company reports the results of operations for Tec-Sem in the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment starting from the acquisition date. The revenues and net loss from Tec-Sem included in the Company's consolidated results for the three months ended June 30, 2018 were $4.3 million and $1.6 million, respectively. During the three months ended June 30, 2018, the net loss included $0.7 million related to the step-up in value of the acquired inventories and $1.0 million related to amortization expense of acquired intangible assets. During the three months ended June 30, 2018, the Company incurred $0.1 million in transaction costs related to the Tec-Sem acquisition. Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest for both the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018 was $0.1 million which represents the 7% minority interest in Tec-Sem.  
 The escrow at closing had a balance of $2.6 million which consisted of $1.8 million related to potential working capital adjustments and the sellers' satisfaction of general representations and warranties. The remaining $0.8 million of the escrow balance is related to a performance obligation that the Company assumed at the acquisition date for the transfer of non-core wafer stocker technology to an unrelated third party. Upon successful delivery of such technology, the Company expects to collect a portion of the $0.8 million which will represent reimbursement of costs incurred to complete development.   
 Acquisition of 4titude Limited  
 On October 5, 2017, the Company acquired all the outstanding capital stock of 4titude Limited (“4titude”), a U.K.-based manufacturer of scientific consumables for biological sample materials used in a variety of genomic and DNA analytical applications. The acquisition of 4titude will expand the Company’s existing offerings of consumables and instruments within the Brooks Life Sciences segment. The aggregate purchase price of $65.1 million, net of cash acquired, consisted primarily of a cash payment of $64.8 million subject to working capital adjustments and the assumption of the seller’s liabilities of $0.4 million.  
 The Company applied variations of the income approach to estimate the fair values of the intangibles assets acquired. The identified intangible assets include customer relationships (excess earnings method) of $21.4 million with a useful life of 10 years, completed technology (relief from royalty method) of $5.2 million with a useful life of 13 years, 
backlog (excess earnings method) of $0.4 million with a useful life of 1 year and trademarks (excess earnings method) of $0.2 million with a useful life of 1 year. The intangible assets acquired are amortized over the total weighted average period of 10.4 years using methods that approximate the pattern in which the economic benefits are expected to be realized.   
 At the closing of the acquisition of 4titude, a cash payment of $0.4 million was placed into escrow which was ascribed to the purchase price. The escrow was related to potential working capital adjustments and the sellers’ satisfaction of general representations and warranties. The escrow balance was $0.2 million as of June 30, 2018.   
 Goodwill represents the excess of the consideration paid over the fair value of the net assets acquired and has been assigned to the Brooks Life Sciences segment. Goodwill is primarily the result of expected synergies from combining the operations of 4titude with the Company’s operations and is not deductible for tax purposes.  
 Acquisitions Completed in Fiscal Year 2017  
 Acquisition of Pacific Bio-Material Management, Inc. and Novare, LLC  
nine months ended June 30, 2018, revenue and net income from PBMMI recognized in the Company’s results of operations were $8.0 million and $0.3 million, respectively. During the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018, the net income included recurring charges of $0.4 million and $1.2 million, respectively, related to amortization expense of acquired intangible assets. Please refer to Note 3, "Acquisitions" to the Company's consolidated financial statements included in the 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information on PBMMI acquisition.  
 Acquisition of Cool Lab, LLC  
 On November 28, 2016, the Company acquired 100% of the equity of Cool Lab, LLC ("Cool Lab") from BioCision, LLC ("BioCision"). The Company held a 20% equity ownership interest in BioCision prior to the acquisition. The Company used a market participant approach to record the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the Cool Lab acquisition. The purchase price allocation had been finalized as of June 30, 2018. Please refer to Note 3, “Acquisitions” to the Company’s consolidated financial statements included in the 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information on this transaction.  
 5. Goodwill and Intangible Assets  
 The Company performs its annual goodwill impairment assessment on April 1st of each fiscal year. In accordance with ASC 350, Intangibles-Goodwill and Other, the Company initially assesses qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances indicates that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. If the Company determines, based on this assessment, that it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value, it performs a quantitative goodwill impairment test by comparing the reporting unit’s fair value with its carrying value. An impairment loss is recognized for the amount by which the reporting unit’s carrying value exceeds its fair value, up to the total amount of goodwill allocated to the reporting unit. No impairment loss is recognized if the fair value of the reporting exceeds its carrying value.  
 As of June 30, 2018, the Company completed the annual goodwill impairment test for its five reporting units and determined that no adjustment to goodwill was necessary. The Company conducted a qualitative assessment for three reporting units within the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment and determined that it was more likely than not that their fair values were more than their carrying values. As a result of the analysis, the Company did not perform the quantitative assessment for these reporting units, and did not perform a quantitative analysis and, therefore, did not recognize any impairment losses. The Company performed the quantitative goodwill impairment test for the fourth 
 During the nine months ended June 30, 2018, the Company recorded a goodwill increase of $48.6 million primarily related to the acquisitions of 4titude, Tec-Sem and BioSpeciMan which represented the excess of the consideration transferred over the fair value of the net assets acquired. Please refer to the Note 4 "Acquisitions" for further information on this transaction.  
 Amortization expense for intangible assets was $17.7 million and $12.7 million, respectively, during the nine months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017.  
 6. Equity Method Investments  
 The Company and ULVAC Corporation of Chigasaki, Japan each own a 50% stake in the joint venture, ULVAC Cryogenics, Inc (“UCI”). UCI manufactures and sells cryogenic vacuum pumps, principally to ULVAC Corporation.  
 The carrying value of the investment in UCI was $37.1 million and $28.6 million, respectively, at June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017. During the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, the Company recorded income of $1.3 million and $2.5 million, respectively, representing its proportionate share of UCI’s earnings. During the nine months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, the Company recorded income of $4.9 million and $7.7 million, respectively, representing its proportionate share of UCI’s earnings. Management fee payments received by the Company from UCI were $0.3 million during each of the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017. Management fee payments received by the Company from UCI were $0.8 million during each of the nine months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017.  
 7. Line of Credit  
 On October 4, 2017, the Company entered into a $200.0 million term loan with the lenders. The term loan was issued at $197.6 million, or 98.8% of its par value, resulting in a discount of $2.4 million, or 1.2%, which represented loan origination fees paid at the closing. The Company incurred additional deferred financing costs of $0.4 million during the nine months ended June 30, 2018. The loan proceeds are to be used for general corporate purposes, including acquisitions. The loan principal amount may be increased by an aggregate amount equal to $75.0 million plus any voluntary repayments of the term loans plus any additional amount such that the secured leverage ratio of the Company is less than 3.00 to 1.00.   
 The Company’s obligations under the term loan are also guaranteed by BioStorage Technologies, Inc. as the guarantor, subject to the terms and conditions of the term loan agreement. The Company and the guarantor granted the lenders a perfected first priority security interest in substantially all of the assets of the Company and the guarantor to secure the repayment of the term loan.  
 The term loan matures and becomes fully payable on October 4, 2024. The principal is payable in installments equal to 0.25% of the initial principal amount of the term loans on March 31st, June 30th, September 30th and December 31st of each year, commencing on March 31, 2018, with any remaining amount of principal becoming due and payable on the maturity date. All accrued and unpaid interest on Borrowings shall be due on the last day of each interest period elected by the Company for such Borrowings, except for interest periods of more than three months in which case all accrued and unpaid interest shall be due and payable every three months.  
 Subject to certain conditions stated in the term loan agreement, the Company may redeem the term loan at any time at its option without a significant premium or penalty, except for a repricing transaction, as defined in the term loan agreement. The Company would be required to redeem the term loan at the principal amount then outstanding upon occurrence of certain events, including (i) net proceeds received from the sale or other disposition of the Company’s or guarantor’ assets, subject to certain limitations, (ii) casualty and condemnation proceeds received by the Company or the guarantor, subject to certain exceptions, (iii) net proceeds received by the Company or the guarantor from the issuance of debt or disqualified capital stock after October 4, 2017. Commencing on December 31, 2018, the Company will be required to make principal payments equal to the excess cash flow amount, as defined in the term loan agreement. Such prepayments are equal to 50% of the preceding year excess cash flow amount reduced by voluntary prepayments of the term loan, subject to certain limitations.  
 During the three months ended June 30, 2018, the weighted average stated interest rate paid on the term loan was 4.5%. During the nine months ended June 30, 2018, the Company incurred aggregate interest expense of $6.6 million in connection with the term loan borrowings, including $0.3 million of deferred financing costs amortization.   
 The term loan agreement contains certain customary representations and warranties, covenants and events of default. If any of the events of default occur and are not waived or cured within applicable grace periods, any unpaid amounts under the term loan agreement will bear an annual interest rate at 2.00% above the rate otherwise applicable under the terms and conditions of such agreement. The term loan agreement does not contain financial maintenance 
covenants. As of June 30, 2018, the Company was in compliance with all covenants and conditions under the term loan agreement.   
 As of June 30, 2018, estimated fair value of the term loan outstanding principal balance approximates its carrying value. The fair value was determined based on observable market inputs and classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy due to a lack of an active market for this term loan or a similar loan instrument.   
earnings and deferred tax asset for net prior year excess tax benefits, with a corresponding decrease to retained earnings for the establishment of valuation allowance against the deferred tax asset. This increase to the valuation allowance was subsequently part of the valuation allowance reversal during the second quarter of fiscal year 2018.  
 10. Other Balance Sheet Information  
 Reserves for excess and obsolete inventory were $21.0 million and $23.5 million, respectively, at June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017.  
 At June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017, the Company had cumulative capitalized direct costs of $5.5 million and $4.7 million, respectively, associated with the development of software for its internal use which are included within "Property, plant and equipment, net" in the accompanying unaudited Consolidated Balance Sheets. During the nine months ended June 30, 2018, the Company capitalized direct costs of $0.8 million associated with the development of software for its internal use.  
 During the first quarter of fiscal year 2018, the Company adopted ASU 2016-09. Upon adoption of ASU 2016-09, the Company made an accounting policy election to continue accounting for forfeitures by applying an estimated forfeiture rate. The adoption of ASU 2016-09 did not have an impact on the stock compensation expense amount recognized during the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018 and accumulated deficit at June 30, 2018.   
 Stock Grants  
 During the nine months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, the Company granted 35,356 and 43,019 units, respectively, to the members of the Company's Board of Directors, including 26,539 and 28,065 units, respectively, that were compensation-related. Compensation-related units granted during the nine months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 are subject to a one-year vesting period starting from the grant date. The units granted during the nine months ended June 30, 2018 will vest on the date which is one day before the Company's 2019 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. The units granted during the nine months ended June 30, 2017 vested on January 30, 2018, which was one day before the Company's 2018 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. Certain members of the Board of Directors previously elected to defer receiving their annual awards of restricted shares of the Company stock and quarterly dividends until a future date. During the nine months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, the Company granted 7,130 and 13,065 units, respectively, related to such deferred annual restricted share awards as well as 1,687 and 1,889 units, respectively, related to deferred quarterly dividends. Annual restricted share awards granted during the nine months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 are subject to a one-year vesting period starting from the grant date. The units will vest on the date which is one day before the Company's Annual Meeting of Stockholders, but certain holders have elected to defer the receipt of the Company shares until they attain a certain age or cease to provide services to the Company in their capacity as Board members. The amount of units granted during the nine months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 related to deferred quarterly dividends was equal to the value of cash dividends that would be paid on the number of total deferred shares based on the closing price of the Company’s stock on the dividend record date. Such units vested upon their issuance, but the settlement was deferred by certain holders for the same conditions, as described above.  
 Performance-based restricted stock units are earned based on the achievement of performance criteria established by the Human Resources and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. The criteria for performance-based awards are weighted and have threshold, target and maximum performance goals.  
 Performance-based awards granted in fiscal year 2017 allow participants to earn 100% of a targeted number of restricted stock units if the Company’s performance meets its target for each applicable financial metric, and up to a maximum of 200% of the restricted stock units target if the Company’s performance for such metrics meets the maximum threshold. Performance below the minimum threshold for each financial metric results in award forfeitures. Performance goals will be measured over a three year period at the end of fiscal year 2020 to determine the number of units earned by recipients who continue to meet a service requirement. Units held by recipients who fail to meet the continued service requirement are forfeited. Earned units for recipients who continue to meet the service requirements vest on the date the Company’s Board of Directors determines the number of units earned, which will be approximately the third anniversary of the grant date.  
 Performance-based awards granted in fiscal year 2016 also include provisions that allow participants to earn threshold, target and maximum awards ranging from 0% of the award for performance below the minimum threshold, 100% of the award for performance at target, and up to a maximum of 200% of the award if the Company achieves the maximum performance goals.  
 Restricted Stock Unit Activity  
 The weighted average grant date fair value of restricted stock units granted during the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 was $25.71 and $25.21, respectively. The weighted average grant date fair value of restricted stock units granted during the nine months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 was $33.31 and $14.32, respectively. The fair value of restricted stock units vested during the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 was $2.7 million and $2.9 million, respectively. The fair value of restricted stock units vested during the nine months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 was $21.8 million and $14.8 million, respectively. During the nine months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, the Company remitted $7.2 million and $4.6 million, respectively, for withholding taxes on vested restricted stock units, of which $0.1 million was paid by the Company during the nine months ended June 30, 2017. There were no taxes on vested restricted stock units paid by the Company during the nine months ended June 30, 2018. During the nine months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, the Company received $7.2 million and $4.6 million, respectively, in cash proceeds from employees to satisfy their tax obligations as a result of share issuances.  
 As of June 30, 2018, the unrecognized compensation cost related to restricted stock units that are expected to vest is $25.5 million and will be recognized over an estimated weighted average service period of approximately 1.6 years.  
 Employee Stock Purchase Plan  
 The Company maintains an employee stock purchase plan that allows its employees to purchase shares of common stock at a price equal to 85% of the fair market value of the Company’s stock at the beginning or the end of the semi-annual period, whichever is lower. There were 66,785 and 90,681 shares, respectively, purchased by employees under the employee stock purchase plan during the nine months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017.  
 12. Earnings per Share  
 During the nine months ended June 30, 2018, antidilutive restricted stock units of 190,266 were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share based on the treasury stock method. There were no antidilutive restricted stock units excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share, during the three and nine months ended June 30, 2017 and three months ended June 30, 2018.   
 The restructuring charges recorded by the Company during the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018 were nominal. During the three and nine months ended June 30, 2017, the Company recorded restructuring charges of $0.8 million and $2.7 million, respectively. The charges during the three months ended June 30, 2017 was primarily related to 
severance in the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment. The charges during the nine months ended June 30, 2017 included $2.2 million in the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment, $0.2 million in the Brooks Life Sciences segment and $0.3 million related to a company-wide restructuring action.    
 As of June 30, 2018, accrued restructuring costs of $0.2 million were primarily attributable to the restructuring actions within the Brooks Life Sciences segment. Accrued restructuring costs are expected to be paid within the next twelve months. Please refer to Note 15, “Restructuring and Other Charges” to the Company’s consolidated financial statements included in the 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information on the restructuring actions discussed above.   
 The Company had one customer that accounted for 10% or more of its consolidated revenue, at 11% during each of the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017. The Company had one customer that accounted for 10% or more of its consolidated revenue, at 12% and 10%, respectively, during the nine months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017. As of June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017, the Company had no customers that accounted for 10% or more of the Company’s total receivables.  
 For purposes of determining the percentage of revenue generated from any of the Company’s original equipment manufacturer (the "OEM") customers, the Company does not include revenue from products sold to contract manufacturer customers who in turn sell to the OEMs. If the Company included revenue from products sold to contract manufacturer customers supporting the Company’s OEM customers, the percentage of the Company’s total revenue derived from certain OEM customers would be higher.  
 16. Commitments and Contingencies  
 Purchase Commitments  
 The Company had non-cancellable contracts and purchase orders for inventory of $148.4 million and $122.0 million, respectively, at June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017.  
  Dividend  
 On July 31, 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.10 per share payable on September 28, 2018 to common stockholders of record as of September 7, 2018. Dividends are declared at the discretion of the Company’s Board of Directors and depend on the Company’s actual cash flows from operations, its financial condition and capital requirements and any other factors the Company’s Board of Directors may consider relevant. Future dividend declarations, as well as the record and payment dates for such dividends, will be determined by the Company’s Board of Directors on a quarterly basis.  
 Item 1. Legal Proceedings   
 Item 1A. Risk Factors   
