item1.txt
The Company’s FieldServer family of protocol gateways, routers, and network explorers targets facility automation requirements, and is used by original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) and system integrators to enable local and remote monitoring and control of assets and facilities.
The FieldServer family of products works with the FieldPoP™ device cloud portal; a cloud-based service that registers and manages FieldServer products, provides secure remote access to the local web-based applications that run on FieldServer products, and integrates with third-party applications over REST APIs. With more than 200,000 installed gateways supporting over 140 protocols such as BACnet, LonWorks, MODBUS, and XML in commercial and industrial facilities, FieldServer is the industry’s leading multi-protocol gateway brand and is delivered in a variety of form factors appropriate to the asset being interfaced.
Additionally, the embedded software enables the assets or devices in the facility to securely connect to third-party clouds and to the Company’s own FieldPoP device cloud portal.
Effective January 1, 2018, the Company began recognizing revenue in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (“ASC 606”).
ASC 606 provides for a five-step model that includes identifying the contract with a customer, identifying the performance obligations in the contract, determining the transaction price, allocating the transaction price to the performance obligations, and recognizing revenue when, or as, an entity satisfies a performance obligation.
The Company adopted ASC 606 utilizing the modified retrospective method as of January 1, 2018.
Our adoption of ASC 606 did not have a material impact on our financial statements and did not require a cumulative effect adjustment to opening retained earnings as of January 1, 2018, but did cause us to expand the discussion of our revenue recognition policies.
Recent accounting pronouncements discussed in the notes to the December 31, 2017 audited financial statements, filed previously with the SEC in our Annual Report on Form 10-K on April 2, 2018, that are required to be adopted during the year ended December 31, 2018, did not have or are not expected to have a significant impact on the Company’s 2018 financial statements.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, issued as a new Topic, ASC Topic 606 (ASU 2014-09).
The premise of the standard is that a Company should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
ASU 2014-09 can be adopted by the Company either retrospectively under the full retrospective approach or as a cumulative-effect adjustment as of the date of adoption under the modified retrospective approach.
This ASU will require organizations that lease assets, such as real estate, airplanes and manufacturing equipment, to recognize on their balance sheet the assets and liabilities for the rights to use those assets for the lease term and obligations to make lease payments created by those leases that have terms of greater than 12 months.
This ASU will also require disclosures to help investors and other financial statement users better understand the amount and timing of cash flows arising from leases.
These disclosures will include qualitative and quantitative requirements, providing additional information about the amounts recorded in the financial statements.
The ASU is effective for the Company for the year ending December 31, 2019 and interim reporting periods within that year, and early adoption is permitted.
Management has not yet determined the effect of this ASU on the Company’s financial statements.
In April 2016 and in May 2016, the Company’s Board of Directors and the Company’s shareholders, respectively, approved the Company’s 2016 Equity Incentive Plan (the “2016 Stock Plan”) and reserved a total of (i) 279,680 shares, plus (ii) 2,550,320 shares that remained available for issuance under the 2006 Stock Plan immediately prior to its expiration, plus (iii) any shares subject to stock options or restricted stock granted under the 2006 Stock Plan that, on or after the date the 2016 Stock Plan became effective, expired or otherwise terminated without having been exercised in full, or were forfeited to or repurchased by the Company, with the maximum number of shares to be added to the 2016 Stock Plan pursuant to clauses (ii) and (iii) equal to 2,668,320.
Options granted under our 2006 Stock Plan and 2016 Stock Plan are at the fair market value of our common stock at the grant date, typically vest ratably over four years, and expire ten years from the grant date.
As of March 31, 2018, a total of 1,154,000 shares were issued under the 2016 Stock Plan.
All share-based payments to employees (incentive stock options) are recognized in the financial statements based on their fair values at the date of grant.
The calculated fair value is recognized as expense (net of any capitalization) over the requisite service period, net of estimated forfeitures, using the straight-line method.
The Company considers many factors when estimating expected forfeitures, including types of awards, employee class and historical experience.
The modified prospective method of application requires compensation expense to be recognized in the financial statements for all unvested stock options beginning in the quarter of award.
The cost is based on the grant date fair value of the stock option.
Compensation expense recognized in future periods for share-based compensation will be adjusted for the effects of estimated forfeitures.
For the three-month periods ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, general and administrative expenses included stock based compensation expense of $46,660 and $81,204, respectively, decreasing the Company’s income before income taxes and increasing the Company’s loss before income taxes, respectively, resulting from the recognition of compensation expense associated with employee stock options.
There was no material impact on the Company’s basic and diluted net loss per share as a result of recognizing the employee stock-based compensation expense.
The Company did not modify the terms of any previously granted stock options during the three-month periods ended March 31, 2018 and 2017.
Basic earnings (loss) per share (“EPS”) is computed using the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period.
Dilutive potential common shares consist of common stock issuable upon exercise of stock options using the treasury stock method.
No customer made up more than 10% of net sales for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017.
The Company currently maintains substantially all of its day to day operating cash with a major financial institution.
The Company’s chief operating decision maker, the Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”), evaluates the performance of the Company and makes operating decisions based on financial data consistent with the presentation in the accompanying condensed financial statements.
No borrowings have been made under the Company’s line of credit during the first three months of fiscal year 2018 and there were no outstanding balances as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017.
As of March 31, 2018, the Company was in compliance with the financial covenants of the line of credit.
No stock options were exercised and 1,000 options expired during the three-month period ended March 31, 2018.
No stock options were exercised and 20,500 options expired during the three-month period ended March 31, 2017.


item2.txt
For the three months ended March 31, 2018, Sierra Monitor Corporation (“we”, “us” or the “Company”) reported net sales of $5,151,016 compared to $4,527,190 for the three months ended March 31, 2017.
The results for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 represent a 13.8% increase from the same period in the prior year.
Sales of gas detection products, including industrial accounts and military sales, increased by approximately 19.9% in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the same period in the prior year.
The increase in sales in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the same period in the prior year was primarily attributable to increased government shipments.
Sales of our FieldServer product line increased by 8.6% in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the same period in the prior year.
Our FieldServer products are primarily sold to OEMs who develop a broad range of products relevant to facility automation, such as boilers, chillers, air handlers, lighting controls, generator sets, electric sub-meters, etc.
Our FieldServer products are also bought by system integrators looking to connect various discrete automation sub-systems to a common facility management system.
Gross profit for the three-month period ended March 31, 2018 was $3,166,454, or 61.5% of net sales, compared to $2,734,384, or 60.4% of net sales, for the same period in the prior year.
Our favorable gross margin in the first quarter of 2018 is primarily due to product mix.
Selling and marketing expenses, which consist primarily of salaries, commissions and promotional expenses, for the three-month period ended March 31, 2018 were $1,386,364, or 26.9% of net sales, compared to $1,355,211, or 29.9% of net sales, in the same period in the prior year.
Selling and marketing expenses increased slightly compared to the first quarter of 2017 as we increase customer outreach and focus on both our OEM and system integrator channels.
General and administrative expenses for the first quarter of 2018 were $914,712, or 17.8% of net sales, compared to $787,812, or 17.4% of net sales, in the same period in the prior year.
General and administrative expenses increased in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to technology upgrades to key customer and delivery focused systems.
Income from operations for the three-month period ended March 31, 2018 was $90,950, or 1.8% of net sales, compared to loss of $168,935, or 3.7% of net sales, in the same period in the prior year.
The increase is primarily the result of increased net sales.
Net income for the three-month period ended March 31, 2018 was $51,261, or approximately 1.0% of net sales, compared to net loss of $133,842, or approximately 3.0% of net sales, for the same period in the prior year.
No borrowings have been made under our line of credit during the first three months of fiscal year 2018 and there were no outstanding balances at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017.
ASC 606 requires the recognition of revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the considerations to which the entity expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services.
The Company recognized the cumulative effect of initially applying ASC 606 as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings.
The comparative information has not been recast and continues to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for those periods.
The adoption did not have a material impact to the nature and timing of its revenues, condensed statements of operations, condensed statements cash flows and condensed balance sheets.
The Company’s revenues are derived from the sale of FieldServer products, FieldServer products services, Gas Detection and Environment Control products, and Gas Detection and Environment Control products services.
The Company accounts for a contract with a customer when there’s approval and commitment from both parties, the rights of the parties are identified, payment terms are identified, the contract has commercial substance and collectability of consideration is probable.
Discounts are applied at time of order entry and sales are processed at net pricing.
The Company provides a warranty on all products sold for a period of two years after the date of shipment.
This standard warranty is assurance type warranty and does not offer any services in addition to the assurance that the product will continue working as specified.
Instead, estimated future warranty obligations related to products are provided by charges to condensed statements of operations in the period in which the related revenue is recognized.
The Company records accounts receivable when it has an unconditional right to consideration.
Contract liabilities are recorded when cash payments are received or due in advance of performance.
Contract liabilities consist of only advance payments, where the Company has unsatisfied performance obligations.
Contract liabilities are classified as deferred revenue and included within “Other current liabilities” on the condensed balance sheets.
At times, billing may occur subsequent to revenue recognition, resulting in an unbilled receivable which represents a contract asset.
The Company does not have any unbilled receivable on the condensed balance sheets.
Payment terms vary by customer.
For certain products or services and customer types, payment is required before the products or services are delivered to the customer.
There were no significant changes in estimates during the period that would affect the contract balances.
The amounts of revenue recognized during the three months ended March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017 from the opening deferred revenue balances were $425 and $0, respectively.
For the periods ended March 31, 2018, and March 31, 2017 no impairment losses related to contract balances were recognized in the condensed statement of operations.
The Company has elected to account for shipping and handling activities related to contracts with customers as costs to fulfill the promise to transfer the associated products.
Our domestic sales are generally made on an open account basis unless specific experience or knowledge of the customer’s potential inability or unwillingness to meet the payment terms dictate secured payments.
Our international sales are generally made based on secure payments, including cash wire advance payments and letters of credit.
International sales are made on open account terms where sufficient historical experience justifies the credit risks involved.
In many of our larger sales, the customers are frequently construction contractors who are in need of our field services to complete their work and obtain payment.
Management’s ability to manage the credit terms and take advantage of the leverage provided by the customers’ need for our services is critical to the effective application of credit terms and minimization of accounts receivable losses.
We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts which is analyzed on a periodic basis to determine adequacy.
We believe that we have demonstrated the ability to make reasonable and reliable estimates of allowances for doubtful accounts based on significant historical experience.
The carrying value of inventory is reduced to market for slow moving and obsolete items based on historical experience and current product demand.
The adequacy of these carrying amounts is dependent upon management’s ability to forecast demands accurately, manage product changes efficiently, and interpret the data provided by the ERP system.


item4.txt
A list of exhibits to this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q is set forth on the Index to Exhibits immediately preceding such exhibits and is incorporated herein by reference.


part2.txt
A list of exhibits to this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q is set forth on the Index to Exhibits immediately preceding such exhibits and is incorporated herein by reference.


