item1.txt
On March 28, 2019 the Company entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger Agreement”) MSA Safety Incorporated (“MSA”), a global safety equipment manufacturer and MSA’s indirect, wholly owned subsidiary, Gateway Merger Sub, Inc., a California corporation (“Merger Sub”).
Upon completion of the Merger, each share of common stock, $0.001 par value per share, of the Company, issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the Merger (the “Effective Time”), other than shares owned or held in treasury by SMC, owned by MSA or Merger Sub, or with respect to which the holder thereof has properly exercised dissenters’ rights, will be cancelled and converted into the right to receive $3.25 in cash per share, without interest and less any required withholding taxes.
Under the Merger Agreement, at the Effective Time of the Merger, MSA Safety will assume vested or unvested and outstanding stock options and restricted stock awards granted to Company employees.
The Company’s FieldServer family of protocol gateways, routers, and network explorers targets facility automation requirements, and is used by original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) and system integrators to enable local and remote monitoring and control of assets and facilities.
The FieldServer family of products works with the FieldPoP™ device cloud portal; a cloud-based service that registers and manages FieldServer products, provides secure remote access to the local web-based applications that run on FieldServer products, and integrates with third-party applications over REST APIs. With more than 200,000 installed gateways supporting over 140 protocols such as BACnet, LonWorks, MODBUS, and XML in commercial and industrial facilities, FieldServer is the industry’s leading multi-protocol gateway brand and is delivered in a variety of form factors appropriate to the asset being interfaced.
The intellectual property in FieldServer products is embodied in the proprietary embedded software that runs on a variety of customized hardware platforms with different connectivity options such as Serial, Ethernet, WiFi, or cellular.
Additionally, the embedded software enables the assets or devices in the facility to securely connect to third-party clouds and to the Company’s own FieldPoP device cloud portal.
The Company recognizes revenue under Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) ASU 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” (Topic 606).
The Company’s revenues are derived from the sale of FieldServer products, FieldServer products services, Gas Detection and Environment Control products, and Gas Detection and Environment Control products services.
The Company accounts for a contract with a customer when there’s approval and commitment from both parties, the rights of the parties are identified, payment terms are identified, the contract has commercial substance and collectability of consideration is probable.
The Company’s revenue arrangements consist of multiple performance obligations including hardware, software, and services.
Determining the stand-alone selling price (“SSP”) and allocation of consideration from an arrangement to the individual performance obligations, and the appropriate timing of revenue recognition are significant judgments with respect to these arrangements.
The Company provides a warranty on all products sold for a period of two years after the date of shipment.
Instead, estimated future warranty obligations related to products are provided by charges to condensed statements of operations in the period in which the related revenue is recognized.
The Company records accounts receivable when it has an unconditional right to consideration.
Contract liabilities are recorded when cash payments are received or due in advance of performance.
Contract liabilities consist of only advance payments, where the Company has unsatisfied performance obligations.
At times, billing may occur subsequent to revenue recognition, resulting in an unbilled receivable which represents a contract asset.
The Company does not have any unbilled receivable on the condensed balance sheets.
For certain products or services and customer types, payment is required before the products or services are delivered to the customer.
There were no significant changes in estimates during the period that would affect the contract balances.
The amounts of revenue recognized during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2018 from the opening deferred revenue balances were $733 and $442, respectively.
For the periods ended March 31, 2019, and March 31, 2018 no impairment losses related to contract balances were recognized in the condensed statement of operations.
The Company has elected to account for shipping and handling activities related to contracts with customers as costs to fulfill the promise to transfer the associated products.
In April 2016 and in May 2016, the Company’s Board of Directors and the Company’s shareholders, respectively, approved the Company’s 2016 Equity Incentive Plan (the “2016 Stock Plan”) and reserved a total of (i) 279,680 shares, plus (ii) 2,550,320 shares that remained available for issuance under the 2006 Stock Plan immediately prior to its expiration, plus (iii) any shares subject to stock options or restricted stock granted under the 2006 Stock Plan that, on or after the date the 2016 Stock Plan became effective, expired or otherwise terminated without having been exercised in full, or were forfeited to or repurchased by the Company, with the maximum number of shares to be added to the 2016 Stock Plan pursuant to clauses (ii) and (iii) equal to 2,668,320.
Options granted under our 2006 Stock Plan and 2016 Stock Plan are at the fair market value of our common stock at the grant date, typically vest ratably over four years, and expire ten years from the grant date.
As of March 31, 2019, a total of 1,516,000 shares were issued under the 2016 Stock Plan.
All share-based payments to employees (incentive stock options) are recognized in the financial statements based on their fair values at the date of grant.
The calculated fair value is recognized as expense (net of any capitalization) over the requisite service period, net of estimated forfeitures, using the straight-line method.
The Company considers many factors when estimating expected forfeitures, including types of awards, employee class and historical experience.
The modified prospective method of application requires compensation expense to be recognized in the financial statements for all unvested stock options beginning in the quarter of award.
The cost is based on the grant date fair value of the stock option.
Compensation expense recognized in future periods for share-based compensation will be adjusted for the effects of estimated forfeitures.
For the three-month periods ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, general and administrative expenses included stock based compensation expense of $59,272 and $46,660, respectively, decreasing the Company’s income before income taxes resulting from the recognition of compensation expense associated with employee stock options.
There was no material impact on the Company’s basic and diluted net income per share as a result of recognizing the employee stock-based compensation expense.
The Company did not modify the terms of any previously granted stock options during the three-month periods ended March 31, 2019 and 2018.
Dilutive potential common shares consist of common stock issuable upon exercise of stock options using the treasury stock method.
No customer made up more than 10% of net sales for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2018.
The Company currently maintains substantially all of its day to day operating cash with a major financial institution.
The Company’s chief operating decision maker, the Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”), evaluates the performance of the Company and makes operating decisions based on financial data consistent with the presentation in the accompanying condensed financial statements.
No borrowings have been made under the Company’s line of credit during the first three months of fiscal year 2019 and there were no outstanding balances as of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018.
As of March 31, 2019, the Company was in compliance with the financial covenants of the line of credit.
The non-lease components are deemed to be executory costs and are therefore excluded from the minimum lease payments used to determine the present value of the operating lease obligation and related right-of-use asset.
We used our estimated incremental borrowing rate and other information available at the lease commencement date in determining the present value of the lease payments.
No stock options were exercised or expired during the three-month period ended March 31, 2019.
Also, no stock options were exercised but 1,000 options expired during the three-month period ended March 31, 2018.
Please see those risk factors identified in Item1A, Risk Factors, of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018.
The Company’s risk factors have not changed materially since December 31, 2018.


item2.txt
For the three months ended March 31, 2019, Sierra Monitor Corporation (“we”, “us” or the “Company”) reported net sales of $5,523,218 compared to $5,151,016 for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
The results for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 represent a 7.2% increase from the same period in the prior year.
The increase in sales in the first quarter of 2019 compared to the same period in the prior year was primarily attributable to increased revenue in both our FieldServer OEM and system integrator channels.
Sales of gas detection products, including industrial accounts and military sales, decreased by approximately 8.3% in the first quarter of 2019 compared to the same period in the prior year.
Sales of our FieldServer product line increased by 21.8% in the first quarter of 2019 compared to the same period in the prior year.
Gross profit for the three-month period ended March 31, 2019 was $3,249,960, or 58.8% of net sales, compared to $3,166,454, or 61.5% of net sales, for the same period in the prior year.
Our reduced gross margin in the first quarter of 2019 compared to the same period in 2018 is primarily due to product mix.
Selling and marketing expenses, which consist primarily of salaries, commissions and promotional expenses, for the three-month period ended March 31, 2019 were $1,398,009, or 25.3% of net sales, compared to $1,386,364, or 26.9% of net sales, in the same period in the prior year.
Selling and marketing expenses remained constant compared to the first quarter of 2018 as we continue customer outreach and focus on both our OEM and system integrator channels.
General and administrative expenses for the first quarter of 2019 were $1,027,880, or 18.6% of net sales, compared to $914,712, or 17.8% of net sales, in the same period in the prior year.
General and administrative expenses increased in the first quarter of 2019 compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to technology upgrades to key customer and delivery focused systems.
Income from operations for the three-month period ended March 31, 2019 was $85,351, or 1.5% of net sales, compared to income of $90,950, or 1.8% of net sales, in the same period in the prior year.
Net income for the three-month period ended March 31, 2019 was $41,672 or approximately 0.8% of net sales, compared to net income of $51,261, or approximately 1.0% of net sales, for the same period in the prior year.
At March 31, 2019, we had approximately $926,000 in long-term liabilities related to lease right-of-use liabilities compared to no long-term liabilities at December 31, 2018.
No borrowings have been made under our line of credit during the first three months of fiscal year 2019 and there were no outstanding balances at March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018.
The comparative information has not been recast and continues to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for those periods.
The adoption did not have a material impact to the nature and timing of its revenues, condensed statements of operations, condensed statements cash flows and condensed balance sheets.
The Company’s revenues are derived from the sale of FieldServer products, FieldServer products services, Gas Detection and Environment Control products, and Gas Detection and Environment Control products services.
The Company accounts for a contract with a customer when there’s approval and commitment from both parties, the rights of the parties are identified, payment terms are identified, the contract has commercial substance and collectability of consideration is probable.
The Company provides a warranty on all products sold for a period of two years after the date of shipment.
This standard warranty is assurance type warranty and does not offer any services in addition to the assurance that the product will continue working as specified.
Instead, estimated future warranty obligations related to products are provided by charges to condensed statements of operations in the period in which the related revenue is recognized.
The Company records accounts receivable when it has an unconditional right to consideration.
Contract liabilities are recorded when cash payments are received or due in advance of performance.
Contract liabilities consist of only advance payments, where the Company has unsatisfied performance obligations.
Contract liabilities are classified as deferred revenue and included within “Other current liabilities” on the condensed balance sheets.
The Company does not have any unbilled receivable on the condensed balance sheets.
Payment terms vary by customer.
For certain products or services and customer types, payment is required before the products or services are delivered to the customer.
There were no significant changes in estimates during the period that would affect the contract balances.
The amounts of revenue recognized during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2018 from the opening deferred revenue balances were $733 and $442, respectively.
For the periods ended March 31, 2019, and March 31, 2018 no impairment losses related to contract balances were recognized in the condensed statement of operations.
The Company has elected to account for shipping and handling activities related to contracts with customers as costs to fulfill the promise to transfer the associated products.
Our domestic sales are generally made on an open account basis unless specific experience or knowledge of the customer’s potential inability or unwillingness to meet the payment terms dictate secured payments.
Our international sales are generally made based on secure payments, including cash wire advance payments and letters of credit.
International sales are made on open account terms where sufficient historical experience justifies the credit risks involved.
In many of our larger sales, the customers are frequently construction contractors who are in need of our field services to complete their work and obtain payment.
Management’s ability to manage the credit terms and take advantage of the leverage provided by the customers’ need for our services is critical to the effective application of credit terms and minimization of accounts receivable losses.
We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts which is analyzed on a periodic basis to determine adequacy.
The carrying value of inventory is reduced to market for slow moving and obsolete items based on historical experience and current product demand.


item4.txt
A list of exhibits to this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q is set forth on the Index to Exhibits immediately preceding such exhibits and is incorporated herein by reference.


part2.txt
A list of exhibits to this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q is set forth on the Index to Exhibits immediately preceding such exhibits and is incorporated herein by reference.


