Item 2.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  

Forward Looking Statements and Projections  

This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward looking statements.
Forward looking statements relate to future events or our future financial performance.
We generally identify forward looking statements by terminology such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “expects,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “could,” “intends,” “target,” “projects,” “contemplates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “predicts,” “potential” or “continue” or the negative of these terms or other similar words.
These statements are only predictions.
We have based these forward looking statements largely on our current expectations and projections about future events and financial  


Table of Contents 

 trends that we believe may affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.
The outcome of the events described in these forward looking statements is subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors described in “Risks Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, as well as those described in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” “Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Accordingly, you should not rely upon forward looking statements as predictions of future events.
We cannot assure you that the events and circumstances reflected in the forward looking statements will be achieved or occur, and actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward looking statements.
The forward looking statements made in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q relate only to events as of the date on which the statements are made.
We undertake no obligation to update any forward looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which the statement is made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
Overview  

We are a leading global provider of design assets, technology and expertise that are designed to enable the best user experiences, ensure brand integrity and help companies engage their best customers.
We empower expression and engagement for creatives, designers, engineers and marketers at the world’s most revered brands.
Monotype is home to some of the world’s most well-known typeface collections.
We provide high-quality creative assets and technology solutions to marketers and content creators that empower our customers to achieve global brand fidelity and drive consistent user experiences across a wide variety of devices and online media.
Along with our custom type services, our solutions enable consumers and professionals to express their creativity, while our tools and technologies improve creative workflows and maximize efficiency as content is published or distributed.
Our solutions provide worldwide language coverage and high-quality text, and our embedded solutions support compelling user interfaces.
We offer more than 13,000 typeface designs, and include some of the world’s most widely used designs, such as the Times New Roman®, Helvetica®, Frutiger®, ITC Franklin Gothic™, FF Meta and Droid™ typefaces, and support more than 250 Latin and non-Latin languages.
Our e-commerce websites, including myfonts.com, fonts.com, linotype.com, and fontshop.com, which attracted more than 50 million visitors in 2018 from over 200 countries and territories, offer thousands of high-quality font products including our own fonts from the Monotype Libraries, as well as fonts from third parties.
Sources of Revenue  


Some of our revenue streams, particularly project-related and custom font design service revenue where spending is largely discretionary in nature, have historically been, and we expect them to continue to be in the future, susceptible to weakening economic conditions.
For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, revenue from customers outside the United States comprised 54.8% and 56.2%, respectively, of our total revenue.
We expect that sales by our international subsidiaries will continue to represent a substantial portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future.
Future international revenue will depend on the continued use and expansion of our products worldwide.
Table of Contents 

We derive a significant portion of our OEM revenue from a limited number of customers, in particular manufacturers of laser printers and consumer electronic devices.
For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, our top ten licensees by revenue, most of which are OEM customers, accounted for approximately 24.6% and 23.0% of our total revenue, respectively.
No one customer accounted for more than 10.0% of our total revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2019 or 2018.
Cost of Revenue  

Our cost of revenue consists of font license fees that we pay on certain fonts that are owned by third parties, personnel and allocated internal engineering expense and overhead costs related to custom font design services and SaaS based offerings and cloud-based web service costs.
License fees that we pay to third parties are typically based on a percentage of our Creative Professional and OEM revenue and do not involve minimum fees.
Cost of revenue also includes amortization of acquired technology, which we amortize over 7 to 15 years.
For purposes of amortizing acquired technology, we estimate the remaining useful life of the technology based upon various considerations, including our knowledge of the technology and the way our customers use it.
We use the straight-line method to amortize acquired technology.
There is no reliable evidence to suggest that we should expect any other pattern of amortization than an even pattern, and we believe this best reflects the expected pattern of economic usage.
Gross Profit  

Our gross profit percentage is influenced by a number of factors including product mix, pricing and volume at any particular time.
However, cost of OEM revenue is typically lower than cost of Creative Professional revenue because we own a higher percentage of the fonts licensed to OEM customers, provide value-added technology and have negotiated lower royalty rates on the fonts we license from third parties because of volume.
In addition, within our Creative Professional business, the cost of custom font design and SaaS based service revenue is substantially higher than the cost of other revenue.
The relative cost of Creative Professional revenue has decreased in recent periods, as efforts to sell license rights to more fonts that we own have been successful, and because we have recently experienced success in our effort to sell certain license rights that carry lower royalty rates to Creative Professional customers.
Creative Professional revenue is growing at a faster rate than OEM revenue.
We expect these trends to continue.
Our gross profit is subject to variability from period-to-period, depending on the product mix and the level of custom font design and SaaS based service revenue.
Critical Accounting Policies  

The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with GAAP and our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations requires us to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes.
We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Information about our critical accounting policies may be found in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” under the heading “Critical Accounting Policies,” included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
Table of Contents 

Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 Compared to Three Months Ended March 31, 2018  



License revenue decreased primarily due to the decline in printer revenue from our printer imaging electronic customers and a decline in revenue from our web channels in the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the same period in 2018.
Service revenue decreased in the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the same period in 2018, mainly due to increased customer churn in the last half of 2018.
Gross profit from license revenue, before amortization of acquired technology, increased to 83.9% from 79.0% mainly due to the one-time additional non-recurring royalty expense in the three months ended March 31, 2018, for which there was no corresponding revenue in the period, in accordance with ASC 606.
There was no similar charge in the same period in 2019.
Gross profit from service revenue, before amortization of acquired technology, decreased from 73.9% to 70.5%, mainly due to a decline in our service revenue as some of our cost of revenue does not fluctuate with changes in revenue.
See further discussion below for additional information regarding our period over period revenue and cost of revenue.
While revenue from services has grown to a level of significance requiring separate disclosure, we continue to operate our business based on our two principal markets, Creative Professional and OEM, which is the basis for the following discussion of operating results.
Table of Contents 



The following discussion compares the three months ended March 31, 2019 with the three months ended March 31, 2018.
Revenue by Market  



Revenue  

Revenue was $51.4 million and $56.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, a decrease of $5.3 million, or 9.4%.
Table of Contents 

Creative Professional revenue was $32.8 million and $35.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, a decrease of $2.2 million, or 6.4%, due to a decline in certain SAAS-based revenue and web-based sales mainly due to increased customer churn in the last half of 2018.
OEM revenue decreased $3.1 million, or 14.3%, to $18.6 million in the first quarter of 2019, as compared to $21.7 million in the first quarter of 2018, mainly due to a decline in printer revenue.
The decrease in printer revenue, period over period, is largely due to a decline in revenue from our printer imaging electronic OEM customers.
Cost of Revenue and Gross Profit  

Cost of revenue, excluding amortization of acquired technology, decreased $2.8 million, or 22.8%, to $9.6 million and $12.4 million in the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
In the first quarter of 2018, there was $2.2 million of non-recurring royalty expense in connection with the adoption of ASC 606.
As a percentage of sales, cost of revenue, excluding amortization of acquired technology, was 18.7% and 22.0% of total revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, a decline of 3.3%.
The portion of cost of revenue consisting of amortization of acquired technology was unchanged at $0.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Gross profit increased 3.1% to 79.6% in the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to 76.5% in the three months ended March 31, 2018.
The increase in gross profit in the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the same period in 2018, was primarily due to the one-time additional non-recurring royalty expense in the prior period that did not occur in the current period, as described above.
Operating Expenses  

Marketing and Selling.
Marketing and selling expense decreased $3.0 million, or 14.7%, to $17.1 million in the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to $20.1 million in the three months ended March 31, 2018, primarily due to lower personnel expenses.
Personnel and personnel related expenses decreased $2.4 million in the first quarter of 2019, as compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to lower headcount from our restructuring actions in the second and fourth quarters of 2018 and other decreases in headcount and lower variable compensation as a result of lower revenue.
Targeted marketing spending decreased $0.4 million in the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the same period in 2018, due to portfolio decisions around discretionary programs.
Research and Development.
Research and development expense decreased $1.9 million, or 20.0%, to $7.4 million in the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to $9.3 million in the three months ended March 31, 2018, primarily due to lower personnel expenses.
Personnel and personnel related expenses decreased mainly due to lower headcount from restructuring actions in the second and fourth quarters of 2018.
General and Administrative.
General and administrative expense decreased $3.6 million, or 23.0%, to $12.0 million in the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to $15.6 million in the three months ended March 31, 2018.
Outside consulting and legal expenses decreased $3.2 million in the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to additional expenses incurred in the prior period related to shareholder activities.
Personnel and personnel related expenses decreased $0.4 million in the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the same period in 2018, mainly the result of restructuring actions in the fourth quarter of 2018.
Restructuring.
Restructuring expense decreased $0.2 million, or 112.4%, due to a credit of $24 thousand in the three months ended March 31, 2019 from $0.2 million in the three months ended March 31, 2018 due to severance expense and charges associated with the closure of one of our regional offices in the prior period.
Amortization of Other Intangible Assets.
Amortization of other intangible assets was $0.8 million and $1.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, a decrease of $0.2 million, or 18.8%, mainly due to the write off intangible assets associated with the Swyft business in the second quarter of 2018.
Table of Contents 

Interest Expense, Net  

Interest expense, net of interest income was $0.8 million and $0.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, an increase of $0.1 million, or 5.9%, mainly due to borrowings under our revolving lines of credit.
Loss (Gain) on Foreign Exchange  

Loss (gain) on foreign exchange was a loss of $66 thousand and gain of $34 thousand in the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The loss and gain in each of the periods was primarily the result of currency fluctuations on our foreign denominated receivables and payables.
Loss on Derivatives  

Loss on derivatives was $0.1 million and $0.1 million in the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, the net result of changes in the market value of our 30-day forward currency derivative contracts.
Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes  


   •    

The impact of foreign earnings increased our effective tax rate by 3.6% in the first quarter of 2019, as compared to 33.8% in the same period in 2018, due to our ability to better utilize foreign tax credits and to limit the amount of income subject to the Global Intangible Low Taxed Income (“GILTI”) provisions.
In the prior period, these provisions of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“The Act”) resulted in a significantly higher effective tax rate on foreign earnings due to limitations on the Company’s ability to utilize foreign tax credits in the first quarter of 2018.
•    

In the three months ended March 31, 2019, we recorded a benefit of 29.1% for the reversal of reserve for unrecognized tax benefits, as compared to a benefit of 0.6% in the prior period, due to the completion of an audit of our 2016 federal tax return.
•    

The Company has reflected a reduction in its valuation allowance for foreign tax credits, resulting in a benefit of 10.2%, related to the amount of foreign tax credit carryforwards that the Company is estimating that it will be able to utilize based on 2019 taxable income.
•    

Non-deductible expenses added 2.4% to the effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to 8.2% for the three months ended March 31, 2018, a result of the acceleration of the final payment of deferred compensation to the founders of Swyft in June 2018 and to two of the founders of Olapic in December 2018, both of which lowered the total amount of non-deductible compensation in the current period.
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements  

Information concerning recently issued accounting pronouncements may be found in Note 3 to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Liquidity and Capital Resources  

Cash Flows for the Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 and 2018.
Since our inception, we have financed our operations primarily through cash from operations, private and public stock sales and long-term debt arrangements, as described below.
We believe our existing cash and cash equivalents, our cash flow from operating activities and available bank borrowings will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least one year from the issuance of these financial statements.
At March 31, 2019, our principal sources of liquidity were cash and cash equivalents totaling $46.4 million and a $200.0 million revolving credit facility, of which there was $70.0 million of outstanding borrowings.
On May 3, 2018, our Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program of up to $25.0 million of our outstanding common stock, which permits purchases through June 7, 2019.
For the three months ended March 31, 2019, we used $6.6 million in cash to purchase shares under the plan.
As of March 31, 2019 the plan has $1.1 million available for future purchases.
Our future working capital requirements will depend on many factors, including the operations of our existing business, our potential strategic expansion and future acquisitions we might undertake.
Table of Contents 



Operating Activities  

We generated $4.1 million in cash from operations during the three months ended March 31, 2019.
Net income, after adjusting for depreciation and amortization, loss extinguishment of debt, loss on retirement of assets, amortization of deferred financing costs, accreted interest, stock based compensation, provision for doubtful accounts, deferred income taxes, and unrealized currency gain on foreign denominated intercompany transactions generated $10.6 million in cash.
Decreased accrued expenses net of increased accounts payable used $12.5 million in cash, primarily a result of the payment of 2018 accrued variable compensation.
Increased deferred revenue and decreased accounts receivable generated $10.9 million in cash as a result of customer payments received.
Prepaid expenses and other assets used $1.7 million in cash, which includes approximately $0.9 million of capitalized financing costs in connection with the New Credit Facility.
Increased tax refunds receivable combined with decreased accrued income taxes used $3.2 million during the quarter ended March 31, 2019.
Variations in operating cash flows occur from time-to-time because our enterprise customers make upfront payments on subscription revenue.
These payments are required under the terms of our license agreements and can cause large fluctuations in accounts receivable and deferred revenue.
The timing and extent of such payments may significantly impact our cash balances.
We generated $7.5 million in cash from operations during the three months ended March 31, 2018.
Net loss, after adjusting for depreciation and amortization, loss on retirement of assets, amortization of deferred financing costs, accreted interest, stock based compensation, provision for doubtful accounts, deferred income taxes, and unrealized currency gain on foreign denominated intercompany transactions generated $1.4 million in cash.
Decreased accrued expenses offset by increased accounts payable used $2.7 million in cash, primarily a result of the payment of 2017 accrued variable compensation.
Increased deferred revenue and decreased accounts receivable generated $10.8 million in cash as a result of customer payments received in Q1, net of an increase in unbilled receivables due to the adoption of ASC 606.
Prepaid expenses and other assets used $1.3 million in cash, mainly due to an increase in capitalized contract costs related to the adoption of ASC 606.
Accrued income taxes used $0.7 million during the quarter ended March 31, 2018.
Investing Activities  

During the three months ended March 31, 2019, we used $0.4 million in investing activities for the purchase of property and equipment.
During the three months ended March 31, 2018, we used $1.6 million in investing activities for the purchase of $1.4 million of property and equipment and $0.2 million for acquisition of intangible assets.
Financing Activities  

Cash used in financing activities in the three months ended March 31, 2019 was $17.4 million.
We received cash from the exercise of stock options of $0.3 million.
We paid cash dividends of $4.8 million, and reduced borrowings under our revolving line of credit by $5.2 million.
We also purchased $6.6 million in treasury stock and paid $1.2 million in employee taxes on shares withheld in the three months ended March 31, 2019.
Cash used in financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was $6.3 million.
We received cash from exercises of stock options of $2.6 million.
We paid a cash dividend of $4.7 million and we paid $3.0 million on our outstanding revolving line of credit.
We also used $1.2 million for employee taxes on shares withheld.
Table of Contents 

Dividends  

On February 13, 2019, our Board of Directors approved an $0.116 per share, or $4.8 million, quarterly cash dividend on our outstanding common stock.
The record date was April 1, 2019 and the dividend was paid to shareholders on April 18, 2019.
We anticipate this to be a recurring quarterly dividend with future payments and record dates, subject to board approval.
On April 18, 2019, our Board of Directors approved a $0.116 per share quarterly cash dividend on our outstanding common stock.
The record date is set for July 1, 2019 and the dividend is payable to shareholders of record on July 19, 2019.  

Credit Facility  

On March 22, 2019, the Company entered into a new credit agreement (the “New Credit Agreement”) by and among the Company, the Company’s subsidiary, Monotype Imaging Inc., (“the Borrower”), any financial institution that becomes a Lender and Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent.
Pursuant to the New Credit Agreement the Lenders have agreed to provide the Borrower with a five-year $200.0 million senior secured revolving credit facility (the “Credit Facility”).
The Credit Facility permits the Company to request that the Lenders, at their election, increase the secured credit facility to a maximum of $300.0 million.
The Credit Facility provides more flexibility in addition to an increased borrowing capacity and extended terms, as defined above.
The New Credit Agreement replaced the Company’s existing $150.0 million revolving credit facility (the “Original Credit Agreement”) by and between the Company and Silicon Valley Bank.
The Original Credit Agreement was terminated effective March 22, 2019 and was scheduled to expire on September 15, 2020.
The Company had $75.0 million outstanding under the Original Credit Agreement at December 31, 2018.
Available borrowings under the Original Credit Agreement were reduced by approximately $0.5 million for one standby letter of credit issued in connection with a facility lease agreement, leaving $74.5 million available for borrowings at December 31, 2018.
At March 31, 2019, the Company had $70.0 million outstanding under the Credit Facility.
Available borrowings under the Credit Facility have been reduced by approximately $0.5 million for one standby letter of credit issued in connection with a facility lease agreement, leaving $129.5 million available for borrowings at March 31, 2019.
Borrowings under the Credit Facility bear interest through March 21, 2024 at a variable rate per annum equal to LIBOR plus between 1.0% and 1.625%, or at the Borrower’s option, the higher of (i) the prime rate as announced by Bank of America and (ii) 0.5% plus the overnight federal funds rate, plus in each case, between 0.0% and 0.625%, with the exact interest rate margin determined based on the consolidated leverage ratio.
At March 31, 2019, our rate, inclusive of applicable margins, was 3.6% for LIBOR.
At December 31, 2018, our rate under the Original Credit Agreement, inclusive of applicable margins, was 4.3% for LIBOR.
The Company is required to pay a commitment fee, based on the consolidated leverage ratio, equal to 0.175%, 0.20%, 0.225% or 0.25% per annum on the undrawn portion available under the revolving credit facility and variable per annum fees in respect of outstanding letters of credit.
In connection with the New Credit Agreement, the Company incurred closing and legal fees of approximately $0.9 million, which have been accounted for as deferred financing costs and will be amortized to interest expense over the term of the New Credit Agreement.
In addition, $34.0 thousand of unamortized deferred financing costs associated with the pro-rata share of prior loan syndicate lenders that did not participate in the new facility were written off and charged to other expense in the first quarter of 2019.
The New Credit Agreement includes financial covenants which require the Company to maintain (i) a consolidated leverage ratio of no greater than 3.25 to 1.0 or, upon a qualified acquisition subject to certain conditions, 3.75 to 1.0 and (ii) a minimum consolidated interest coverage ratio of 3.00 to 1.0.
At March 31, 2019, our consolidated leverage ratio was 0.72 to 1.0 and our consolidated interest coverage ratio was 18.61 to 1.0.
The New Credit Agreement also contains customary affirmative and negative covenants for transactions of this type and other affirmative and negative covenants agreed to by the parties, including, among others, limits on the Company and its subsidiaries’ ability to incur debt or liens, engage in sale-leaseback transactions, make loans, investments and acquisitions, incur additional indebtedness, engage in mergers, enter into asset sales, transact with affiliates and alter its business.
Adjusted EBITDA, under the Credit Facility, is defined as consolidated net earnings (or loss), plus net interest expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization, and share based compensation expense, plus acquisition expenses not to exceed $2.0 million, minus capitalized research and development expense, plus restructuring, issuance costs, cash non-operating costs and other expenses or losses minus cash non-operating gains and other non-cash gains; provided, however that the aggregate of all cash non-operating expense shall not exceed 10% of Consolidated EBITDA.
The New Credit Agreement also provides for a number of customary events of default, including, among others, payment, bankruptcy, covenant, representation and warranty, change of control and judgment defaults.
Failure to comply with these covenants, or the occurrence of an event of default, could permit the Lenders under the New Credit Agreement to declare all amounts borrowed under the New Credit Agreement, together with accrued interest and fees, to be immediately due and payable.
The obligations of the Borrower under the Credit Facilities are unconditionally guaranteed by the Company and certain subsidiaries and secured by a lien on substantially all of the present and future property and assets of the Company and such subsidiaries, in each case, subject to limited exceptions and exclusions.
The Credit Facility also contains provisions for an increased interest rate during periods of default.
We do not believe that these covenants will affect our ability to operate our business, and we were in compliance with all covenants under our Credit Facility as of March 31, 2019.
Table of Contents 

Non-GAAP Measures  

In our quarterly earnings press releases and conference calls, in addition to Adjusted EBITDA as discussed above, we discuss a key measure that is not calculated according to GAAP.
This non-GAAP measure is net adjusted EBITDA, which is defined as income (loss) from operations before depreciation, amortization of acquired intangible assets, stock based compensation expense, acquisition-related compensation and one-time non-recurring expenses.
We use net adjusted EBITDA as a principal indicator of the operating performance of our business.
We use net adjusted EBITDA in internal forecasts and models when establishing internal operating budgets, supplementing the financial results and forecasts reported to our board of directors, determining bonus compensation for our employees based on operating performance and evaluating short-term and long-term operating trends in our operations.
We believe that net adjusted EBITDA permits a comparative assessment of our operating performance, relative to our performance based on our GAAP results, while isolating the effects of charges that may vary from period-to-period without direct correlation to underlying operating performance.
We believe that these non-GAAP financial adjustments are useful to investors because they allow investors to evaluate the effectiveness of the methodology and information used by management in our financial and operational decision-making.
We believe that trends in our net adjusted EBITDA may be valuable indicators of our operating performance.
In our quarterly earnings press releases and conference calls, in addition to Adjusted EBITDA and net adjusted EBITDA as discussed above, we discuss another key measure that is not calculated according to GAAP.
This non-GAAP measure is non-GAAP earnings per diluted share, which is defined as earnings per diluted share before amortization of acquired intangible assets, stock based compensation expenses, acquisition-related compensation and one-time non-recurring expenses.
We use non-GAAP earnings per diluted share as one of our principal indicators of the operating performance of our business.
We use non-GAAP earnings per diluted shares in internal forecasts, supplementing the financial results and forecasts reported to our board of directors and evaluating short-term and long-term operating trends in our operations.
We believe that non-GAAP earnings per diluted share permits a comparative assessment of our operating performance, relative to our performance based on our GAAP results, while isolating the effects of charges that may vary from period-to-period without direct correlation to underlying operating performance.
We believe that these non-GAAP financial adjustments are useful to investors because they allow investors to evaluate the effectiveness of the methodology and information used by management in our financial and operational decision-making.
We believe that trends in our non-GAAP earnings per diluted share may be valuable indicators of our operating performance.
Table of Contents 




For the three months ended March 31, 2019, the amount includes $0.2 million, or $0.01 per share, of expense associated with the deferred compensation arrangement resulting from the Olapic acquisition.
For the three months ended March 31, 2018, the amount includes $0.9 million, or $0.02 per share, of expense associated with the deferred compensation arrangement resulting from the Olapic acquisition and $0.3 million, or $0.01 per share, of expense associated with the deferred compensation arrangement resulting from the Amendment to the Swyft Merger Agreement.
For the three months ended March 31, 2019, the amount includes ($24) thousand of restructuring expenses.
For the three months ended March 31, 2018, the amount includes $2.7 million of certain advisor fees related to shareholder activities, $2.2 million of royalty expenses, recorded in cost of sales, associated with revenue that was not recognized under ASC 606 and $0.2 million of restructuring expenses.
For the three months ended March 31, 2019, the amount includes ($18) thousand, or $0.00 per share, net of tax, of restructuring expenses.
For the three months ended March 31, 2018, the amount includes $2.1 million, or $0.05 per share, net of tax, of certain advisor fees related to shareholder activities, $1.7 million, or $0.04 per share, net of tax, of royalty expenses, recorded in cost of sales, associated with revenue that was not recognized under ASC 606 and $0.1 million, or $0.00 per share, net of tax, of restructuring expenses.
Table of Contents 

    is the most directly comparable GAAP operating performance measure to non-GAAP earnings per diluted share.
As non-GAAP earnings per diluted share is not defined by GAAP, our definition of non-GAAP earnings per diluted share may differ from and therefore may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies, thereby limiting its usefulness as a comparative measure.
Because of the limitations that non-GAAP earnings per diluted share has as an analytical tool, investors should not consider it in isolation, or as a substitute for analysis of our operating results as reported under GAAP.
Other Liquidity Matters  

Contractual Obligations  

The table below summarizes our operating lease contractual obligations at March 31, 2019 and the effects of such obligations on liquidity and cash flow in future years (in thousands).
There is no change in our other contractual obligations from those disclosed in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds  

 (a)  

Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities   

None.
Purchases of Equity Securities  



The Company repurchased unvested restricted stock in accordance with either the Third Amended and Restated 2007 Stock Option and Incentive Plan, “2007 Award Plan” or the 2010 Inducement Plan.
The price paid by the Company was determined pursuant to the terms of either the 2007 Award Plan or the 2010 Inducement Plan and related restricted stock agreements.
The Company withheld 2,532 shares, 20,403 shares and 38,965 shares of vested restricted stock to satisfy the payment of taxes associated with the awards’ vestings in January, February and March, respectively.
The Company purchased shares of common stock in accordance with its share repurchase program announced on May 3, 2018.
The Company purchased the shares on the open market at prevailing prices.
