 Item 1.
Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements
MONOTYPE IMAGING HOLDINGS INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
Table of Contents
MONOTYPE IMAGING HOLDINGS INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
Table of Contents
MONOTYPE IMAGING HOLDINGS INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
Table of Contents
MONOTYPE IMAGING HOLDINGS INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
Table of Contents
MONOTYPE IMAGING HOLDINGS INC.
NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1.
Nature of the Business
2.
Basis of Presentation
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated interim financial statements as of March 31, 2018 and for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 include the accounts of the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries and have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”) for interim financial reporting and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) for Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X.
Accordingly, such financial statements do not include all of the information and footnotes required by GAAP for complete financial statements.
GAAP requires the Company’s management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
The results for interim periods are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for the year or for any future periods.
In management’s opinion, these unaudited condensed consolidated interim financial statements contain all adjustments of a normal recurring nature necessary for a fair presentation of the financial statements for the interim periods presented.
These unaudited condensed consolidated interim financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017, as reported in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K.
The Company’s significant accounting policies and practices are as described in the Annual Report, except for the adoption of the accounting standards described in Note 3 below.
Statement of Operations
For the three months ended March 31, 2018, we have changed our presentation of revenue to disclose service revenue and cost of service revenue separately from license revenue and cost of license revenue, as service revenue now exceeds the materiality threshold for an individual line item.
Prior year amounts have also been restated to conform to current presentation.
We classify cloud-based subscriptions and other services, such as font related services, custom font design and post contract support as service revenue on our condensed consolidated statements of operations.
All other revenue is classified as license revenue.
3.
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements
Adopted
Revenue Recognition
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, and the International Accounting Standards Board jointly issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) (“ASC 606”), which outlines a comprehensive five-step revenue recognition model based on principle that replaces virtually all existing revenue recognition rules under U.S. GAAP and which requires revenue to be recognized in a manner to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to a customer at an amount that reflects the consideration expected to be received in exchange for those goods or services.
ASU 2014-09 also provided the guidance in ASC Topic 340, Other Assets and Deferred Costs—Contracts with Customers (Subtopic 340-
Table of Contents
 40), which includes criteria for the capitalization and amortization of certain contract acquisition and fulfillment costs.
The standard requires retrospective application; however, it allows entities to choose either full retrospective adoption, in which the standard is applied to all of the periods presented, or modified retrospective adoption, in which the cumulative catch-up adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings is recognized at the date of application, with additional disclosures required to describe these effects.
We adopted the standard on January 1, 2018, and applied the modified retrospective method of adoption and have elected to apply the new standard only to contracts not completed at January 1, 2018, which represents contracts for which all (or substantially all) of the revenues have not been recognized under existing guidance as of the date of adoption.
 (1) Contract assets, short term are included in the accounts receivables, net of allowance for doubtful accounts in our condensed consolidated balance sheet.
 (2) Capitalized contract costs, short term are included in the prepaid expenses and other current assets in our condensed consolidated balance sheet.
 (3) Capitalized contract costs, long term are included in other assets in our condensed consolidated balance sheet.
 (4) Deferred revenue, long term is included in other long-term liabilities in our condensed consolidated balance sheet.
In addition, we recognized additional royalty expenses totaling approximately $2.2 million, or $0.05 per share, upon the adoption of ASC 606, as an indirect effect of a change in accounting principle.
These amounts are included in cost of revenue – license in the accompanying condensed consolidated statement of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
Table of Contents
   •   Under legacy GAAP, revenue related to our term licenses that were bundled with service-related performance obligations when vendor-specific objective evidence (“VSOE”) did not exist was required to be recognized ratably over the term of the agreement.
Under ASC 606, the Company allocates revenue to each performance obligation in the contract and each performance obligation is accounted for separately; the license revenue is recognized at the time of delivery and the service revenue is recognized over time based on their relative standalone selling prices.
The application of this provision is particularly impactful to our new Mosaic product offering which was launched in the first quarter of 2018.
This new offering bundles our traditional font licenses with a SaaS based portal, which under legacy GAAP would have been recognized ratably.
This provision also has resulted in some revenue from contracts signed prior to 2018 being accelerated and recorded to retained earnings instead of in our operating results in 2018 and beyond.
   •   We have a limited number of contracts in which we offered extended payment terms for term licenses to our customers, including cases in which the license is delivered in full at the beginning of the contract.
Under legacy GAAP, revenue was recognized when the payments became due, based upon the requirement that the fee be fixed or determinable.
However, under the new guidance, revenue related to such arrangements is accelerated, with revenue related to the license recognized at the time of delivery, less a financing component (interest income) to be recognized over time based on the payment terms.
The application of this provision has resulted in revenue from certain contracts signed prior to 2018 being accelerated and recorded to retained earnings instead of in our operating results in 2018 and beyond.
This also impacts new contracts that we sign in 2018.
   •   Under legacy GAAP, we recognized royalty revenue when it was reported to us by the licensee, typically one quarter after royalty-bearing units were shipped, at which time the fee is fixed or determinable.
Under ASC 606, we now estimate royalty revenue from our royalty-based licenses in the period that the royalty-bearing event occurs.
Thus, revenue from royalties reported to us in the first quarter of 2018 were recorded to retained earnings upon adoption of ASC 606, rather than being recognized as revenue as it would have been under legacy GAAP.
This was partially offset by the recognition of revenue in the first quarter of 2018 for estimated royalties that will be reported to us in the second quarter of 2018.
Table of Contents
   •   ASC 606 requires certain incremental costs related to contract acquisition, such as sales commissions, and contract fulfillment costs to be capitalized and amortized over the expected period of benefit whereas the Company had previously recognized such expenses as incurred.
Please see Note 4 for the Company’s policies related to revenue recognition and accounting for costs to obtain and fulfill a customer contract.
Statement of Cash Flows
Stock Compensation
Pension Benefits
In March 2017, the FASB issued ASU No.
2017-07, Compensation-Retirement Benefits (Topic 715)-Improving the Presentation of Net Periodic Pension Cost and Net Periodic Postretirement Benefit Cost.
This guidance revises the presentation of the net periodic benefit cost in the income statement.
The new standard will be effective for annual and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2017.
We adopted ASU 2017-07 on January 1, 2018 and there was no material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
Pending
Derivatives
Goodwill
Table of Contents
Leases
We recognize revenue when a customer obtains control of a promised good or service.
The amount of revenue recognized reflects consideration that we expect to be entitled to receive in exchange for these services, and excludes any sales incentives and taxes collected from customers, that are subsequently remitted to governmental authorities.
We adopted ASC 606 on January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method for all contracts not completed as of the date of adoption.
The reported results for 2018 reflect the application of ASC 606 guidance while the reported results for 2017 were prepared under legacy GAAP.
The adoption of ASC 606 represents a change in accounting principle that will more closely align revenue recognition with the delivery of our products and services and will provide financial statement readers with enhanced disclosures.
Creative Professional Revenue
Our Creative Professional revenue is primarily derived from rights to use font licenses, from custom font design services from and hosted software as a service, or SaaS, offerings.
We license fonts directly to end-users through our direct sales organization, e-commerce websites and indirectly through third-party resellers.
Web font and digital ad related services refer to our web font services and web design tools.
Our customers include graphic designers, advertising agencies, media organizations and corporations.
Revenue from font licenses is recognized upfront when the font software is delivered or made available to the customer.
Custom font design services are generally not a separate distinct performance obligation and are sold with a license for the custom font, in which case revenue is recognized upon completion of the services and when the font is delivered and accepted by the customer.
In limited cases, the Company has an enforceable right to payment prior to final delivery and acceptance of custom font design work.
In these cases the Company has determined that the proper treatment is a single over-time performance obligation using input methods (incurred hours towards completion) to measure progress towards completion to determine the pattern of satisfaction of the performance obligation.
For our hosted offerings where we provide our customers the right to access our software without taking possession, revenue is recognized over the contract period on a time-elapsed basis, which is consistent with the transfer of service to the customer.
Payment terms and conditions for Creative Professional contracts generally require payment within thirty to sixty days of contract inception.
An exception exists for certain contracts for our SaaS offerings or a limited number of multi-year term license agreements which have periodic payment terms, generally quarterly or annually, over the term of the contract.
In instances where the timing of revenue recognition differs from the respective payment terms, we have considered whether such contracts include a significant financing component, subject to the applicable practical expedient.
The purpose of these payment structures is to align with industry and market standards, not to provide customers with financing.
We have determined our contracts generally do not include a significant financing component; however, the Company will continue to assess (1) the length of time between when the goods or services are delivered and expected payment and (2) prevailing interest rates in the market to re-evaluate this conclusion.
Table of Contents
OEM Revenue
Our OEM revenue is derived substantially from printer imaging, printer driver and display imaging products.
OEM revenue primarily relates to licenses providing our customers the right to embed our fonts and technology in their products over a certain term.
Under our OEM licensing arrangements, we either receive a fixed fee as specified under the license arrangement or a royalty for each product unit incorporating our fonts and technology that is shipped by our OEM customers.
Although significantly less than royalties from per-unit shipments and fixed fees from OEM customers, we also receive revenue from software application and operating systems vendors, who include our fonts and technology in their products and for font development.
Revenue from per-unit royalty contracts is estimated and recognized in the period that the royalty-bearing event or sale by our OEM customer occurs.
Revenue from fixed fee licenses is generally recognized upfront at the point in time when the software embodying the font is shipped or made available to the customer.
Certain OEM contracts may include customer support services and unspecified updates for our font technology which is a distinct stand-ready performance obligation and recognized ratably over the service period.
Many of our per-unit royalty licenses continue for the duration that our OEM customers ship products that include our technology, unless terminated for breach.
Other licenses have terms that typically range from one fiscal quarter to five years, and usually provide for automatic or optional renewals.
Disaggregated Revenue
Significant Judgments
Our contracts with customers often include promises to transfer multiple products and services to a customer.
Determining whether products and services are considered distinct performance obligations that should be accounted for separately versus together may require significant judgment.
Once we determine the performance obligations, the Company determines the transaction price, which includes estimating the amount of variable consideration to be included in the transaction price, if any.
We then allocate the transaction price to each performance obligation in the contract based on a relative stand-alone selling price method.
The corresponding revenue is recognized as the related performance obligations are satisfied as discussed in the revenue categories above.
Judgment is required to determine the standalone selling price for each distinct performance obligation.
We determine standalone selling price based on the price at which the performance obligation is sold separately.
If the standalone selling price is not observable through past transactions, we estimate the standalone selling price taking into account available information such as market conditions and internally approved pricing guidelines related to the performance obligations.
Table of Contents
As discussed above, certain of our Creative Professional contracts have payment terms that differ from the timing of revenue recognition which requires us to assess whether the transaction price for those contracts include a significant financing component.
We have elected the practical expedient which permits an entity to not adjust for the effects of a significant financing component if we expect that at the contract inception, the period between when the entity transfers a promised good or service to a customer and when the customer pays for that good or service will be one year or less.
For those contracts in which the period exceeds the one year threshold, this assessment, as well as the quantitative estimate of the financing component and its relative significance, requires judgment.
We estimate the significant financing component provided to our customers with extended payment terms by determining the present value of the future payments by applying a discount rate that reflects the customer’s creditworthiness.
Transaction Price Allocated to Future Performance Obligations
Contract Balances
Timing of revenue recognition may differ from the timing of invoicing to customers.
We record an unbilled receivable, or contract asset, when revenue is recognized prior to invoicing when we have an enforceable right to payment.
When invoicing occurs prior to revenue recognition, we have unearned revenue, or contract liabilities, presented on our condensed consolidated balance sheet as “deferred revenue” within deferred revenue and other long-term liabilities, as appropriate.
When invoicing occurs after revenue recognition, we have earned revenue, or contract assets, presented on our condensed consolidated balance sheet as “unbilled receivables” within accounts receivable and other assets, as appropriate.
Revenue recognized during the three months ended March 31, 2018 from amounts included in deferred revenue at the beginning of the period was approximately $6.8 million.
Revenue recognized during the three month ended March 31, 2018 from performance obligations satisfied or partially satisfied in previous periods, mainly due to changes in the estimate of royalty revenues, is approximately $4.3 million.
During the three months ended March 31, 2018, the change in contract assets reclassified to receivables as a result of the right to the transaction consideration becoming unconditional was not material.
The contract modifications entered into during the three months ended March 31, 2018 did not have a significant impact on the Company’s contract assets or deferred revenue.
Costs to Obtain and Fulfill a Contract
We recognize an asset for the incremental costs of obtaining a contract with a customer if we expect the benefit of those costs to be longer than one year.
We have determined that certain commissions paid under our sales incentive programs meet the requirements to be capitalized.
The amount capitalized for incremental costs to obtain contracts as of March 31, 2018 was $1.4 million; of which $0.5 million was short-term and has been included in prepaid expenses and other current assets and $0.9 million was long term and has been included in other assets in our condensed consolidated balance sheet.
Costs to obtain a contract are amortized as sales and marketing expense over the expected period of benefit in a manner that is consistent with the transfer of the related goods or services to which the asset relates.
The judgments made in determining the amount of costs incurred include whether the commissions are in fact incremental and would not have occurred absent the customer contract and the estimate of the amortization period, which ranges between three and ten years depending on the nature of the performance obligations within the contract.
These costs are periodically reviewed for impairment; however, no impairment existed as of March 31, 2018.
We have elected to apply the practical expedient and recognize the incremental costs of obtaining contracts as an expense when incurred if the amortization period of the assets that the Company otherwise would have recognized is one year or less.
We capitalize incremental costs incurred to fulfill our contracts that (i) relate directly to the contract, (ii) are expected to generate resources that will be used to satisfy the Company’s performance obligation under the contract, and (iii) are expected to be recovered through revenue generated under the contract.
Contract fulfillment costs primarily relate to font license fees that we pay on certain fonts that are owned by third parties.
These fees are related to license revenue that is satisfied at a point in time and payable again upon license renewal, and as a result are incurred immediately upon contract execution.
Accordingly, there are no capitalized costs related to costs to fulfill a contract as of March 31, 2018.
Table of Contents
5.
Fair Value Measurements
The Company’s recurring fair value measures relate to short-term investments, which are classified as cash equivalents, derivative instruments and from time-to-time as contingent consideration.
The fair value of our cash equivalents are either based on quoted prices for similar assets or other observable inputs such as yield curves at commonly quoted intervals and other market corroborated inputs.
The fair value of our derivatives is based on quoted market prices from various banking institutions or an independent third-party provider for similar instruments.
In determining the fair value, we consider our non-performance risk and that of our counterparties.
At March 31, 2018, we had one 30-day forward contract to sell 2.4 million British pounds sterling and purchase $3.4 million that together, had an immaterial fair value; and at December 31, 2017, we had one 30-day forward contract to sell 2.5 million British pounds sterling and purchase $3.4 million that together, had an immaterial fair value.
The Company’s non-financial assets and non-financial liabilities subject to non-recurring measurements include goodwill and intangible assets.
Table of Contents
On September 15, 2015, the Company entered into a new credit agreement (the “New Credit Agreement”) by and among the Company, the Company’s subsidiary Monotype Imaging Inc., any financial institution that becomes a Lender (as defined therein) and Silicon Valley Bank, as agent which provides for a five-year $150.0 million secured revolving credit facility (the “Credit Facility”).
The Credit Facility permits the Company to request that the Lenders, at their election, increase the secured credit facility to a maximum of $200.0 million.
The Credit Facility is available to the Company on a revolving basis through September 15, 2020.
Repayment of any amounts borrowed is not required until maturity of the Credit Facility; however, the Company may repay any amounts borrowed at any time, without premium or penalty.
At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the Company had $90.0 million and $93.0 million outstanding under the Credit Facility.
At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, available borrowings under the Credit Facility have been reduced by approximately $0.5 million for one standby letter of credit issued in connection with a facility lease agreement, leaving $59.5 million and $56.5 million available for borrowing at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.
Borrowings under the Credit Facility bear a variable rate not less than zero based upon, at the Company’s option, either LIBOR or the higher of (i) the prime rate as published in the Wall Street Journal, and (ii) 0.5% plus the overnight federal funds rate, plus in each case, an applicable margin.
The applicable margin for LIBOR loans, based on the applicable leverage ratio, is 1.25%, 1.50% or 1.75% per annum, and the applicable margin for base rate loans, based on the applicable leverage ratio, is either 0.25%, 0.50% or 0.75% per annum.
At March 31, 2018, our rate, inclusive of applicable margins, was 3.6% for LIBOR, and at December 31, 2017, our rate, inclusive of applicable margins, was 3.1% for LIBOR.
8.
Defined Benefit Pension Plan
Our German subsidiary maintains an unfunded defined benefit pension plan which covers substantially all employees who joined the company prior to the plan’s closure to new participants in 2006.
Participants are entitled to benefits in the form of retirement, disability and surviving dependent pensions.
Benefits generally depend on years of service and the salary of the employees.
Table of Contents
Income Taxes
As of March 31, 2018, the reserve for uncertain tax positions was approximately $6.8 million.
Of this amount, $4.6 million is recorded as a reduction of deferred tax assets and $2.2 million is classified as long-term liabilities.
As disclosed in the Company’s 2017 Form 10-K, the Company recorded the tax effects of the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) in the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017.
The new legislation required the Company to pay tax on the unremitted earnings of its foreign subsidiaries through December 31, 2017.
Because of the complexities involved in determining the previously unremitted earnings and profits of all our foreign subsidiaries, the Company is still in the process of obtaining, preparing, and analyzing the required information, as permitted in accordance with Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
118.
The Company recorded an initial estimate of the tax on unremitted earnings of approximately $0.2 million, however, this amount was offset by available foreign tax credits, and as a result the net estimated amount payable related to the deemed repatriation of foreign earnings was zero.
The Company is continuing to update this estimate, but does not expect there to be a material change in the estimate once it is finalized.
10.
Net Loss Per Share
For the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, earnings was not allocated to participating securities in the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share as there were net losses.
For the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, the net loss available to common shareholders was divided by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period to calculate diluted earnings per share.
For the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, the assumed exercise of stock options and assumed vesting of restricted stock and restricted stock units were not included in the computation of net loss per share as their effect would have been anti-dilutive.
Table of Contents
11.
Stock Based Compensation
In the first quarter of 2018 and 2017, approximately $14 thousand and $22 thousand, respectively, of stock based compensation was capitalized in connection with internal software projects, and this amount is included in property and equipment, net in our condensed consolidated balance sheets.
As of March 31, 2018, the Company had $37.8 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to employees and directors unvested stock options and restricted stock awards that are expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 2.6 years.
Table of Contents
Geographic segment information
We market our products and services principally through offices in the United States, United Kingdom, Germany, China, Republic of Korea and Japan.
We report revenue based on the geographic location of our customers.
For example, licenses may be sold to large international companies, which may be headquartered in the Republic of Korea, but the sales are received and recorded by our subsidiary located in the United States.
13.
Commitments and Contingencies
Legal Proceedings
From time-to-time, we may be a party to various claims, suits and complaints.
We do not believe that there are claims or legal proceedings that, if determined adversely to us, would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.
Table of Contents
Licensing Warranty
Under our standard license agreement with OEM customers, we warrant that the licensed technologies are free of infringement claims of intellectual property rights and will meet the specifications as defined in the licensing agreement for a one-year period.
Under the licensing agreements, liability for such indemnity obligations is limited, generally to the total arrangement fee; however, exceptions have been made on a case-by-case basis, increasing the maximum potential liability to agreed upon amounts at the time the contract is entered into or unlimited liability.
We have never incurred costs payable to a customer or business partner to defend lawsuits or settle claims related to these warranties, and as a result, management believes the estimated fair value of these warranties is minimal.
Accordingly, there are no liabilities recorded for these warranties as of March 31, 2018 or December 31, 2017.
Dividend Declaration
On April 2, 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors declared an $0.116 per share quarterly cash dividend on our outstanding common stock.
The record date is set for July 2, 2018, and the dividend is payable to shareholders of record on July 20, 2018.
Dividends are declared at the discretion of the Company’s Board of Directors and depend on actual cash from operations, the Company’s financial condition and capital requirements and any other factors the Company’s Board of Directors may consider relevant.
Future dividend declarations, as well as the record and payment dates for such dividends, will be determined by the Company’s Board of Directors on a quarterly basis.
 Item 1.
Legal Proceedings
From time to time, we may be a party to various claims, suits and complaints.
We do not believe that there are claims or legal proceedings that, if determined adversely to us, would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.
 Item 1A.
Risk Factors
There are no material changes in our risk factors from those disclosed in Part I, Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
