Part II—OTHER INFORMATION
 Item 1.
Legal Proceedings
From time to time, we may be a party to various claims, suits and complaints.
We do not believe that there are claims or legal proceedings that, if determined adversely to us, would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.
 Item 1A.
Risk Factors
There are no material changes in our risk factors from those disclosed in Part I, Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
 Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
 (a)
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities
None.
 (b)
Use of proceeds
Not applicable.
 (c)
Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers
Monotype Imaging Holdings Inc.
Purchases of Equity Securities
The Company repurchased unvested restricted stock in accordance with either the Third Amended and Restated 2007 Stock Option and Incentive Plan, “2007 Award Plan” or the 2010 Inducement Plan.
The price paid by the Company was determined pursuant to the terms of either the 2007 Award Plan or the 2010 Inducement Plan and related restricted stock agreements.
The Company withheld 2,532 shares, 20,403 shares and 38,965 shares of vested restricted stock to satisfy the payment of taxes associated with the awards’ vestings in January, February and March, respectively.
The Company purchased shares of common stock in accordance with its share repurchase program announced on May 3, 2018.
The Company purchased the shares on the open market at prevailing prices.
 Item 3.
Defaults Upon Senior Securities
Not applicable.
 Item 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures
Not applicable.
Table of Contents
 Item 5.
Other Information
None.
 Item 6.
Exhibits
The exhibits listed in the Exhibit Index immediately preceding the exhibits are filed as part of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and such Exhibit Index is incorporated herein by reference.
Table of Contents
EXHIBIT INDEX
Listed and indexed below are all exhibits filed as part of this report.
Incorporated by reference to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on March 26, 2019.
Filed herewith.
Furnished herewith.
Table of Contents
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
