 Item 1.
Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements
MONOTYPE IMAGING HOLDINGS INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
Table of Contents
MONOTYPE IMAGING HOLDINGS INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
Table of Contents
MONOTYPE IMAGING HOLDINGS INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
Table of Contents
MONOTYPE IMAGING HOLDINGS INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
Table of Contents
MONOTYPE IMAGING HOLDINGS INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
Table of Contents
MONOTYPE IMAGING HOLDINGS INC.
NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1.
Nature of the Business
Monotype Imaging Holdings Inc. (the “Company” or “we”) is a leading global provider of branded and design assets, technology and expertise for creative professionals and consumer device manufacturers.
We provide high-quality creative assets and technology solutions across multiple devices and mediums.
Our solutions, which include type, visual content marketing solutions, custom design services, and tools and technologies that enable the creative process are licensed through our direct sales channel, e-commerce platforms and partner platforms.
We also provide consumer device manufacturers and independent software vendors, or ISVs, with the right solutions for delivering consistent, compelling user experiences.
Our solutions power the visual expression of the leading makers of a wide range of devices, including laser printers, digital copiers and mobile devices, among others, as well as provide a high-quality text experience in numerous software applications and operating systems.
We license our design assets and technology to creative professionals, consumer device manufacturers and independent software vendors.
2.
Basis of Presentation
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated interim financial statements as of March 31, 2019 and for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 include the accounts of the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries and have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”) for interim financial reporting and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) for Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X.
Accordingly, such financial statements do not include all of the information and footnotes required by GAAP for complete financial statements.
GAAP requires the Company’s management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
The results for interim periods are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for the year or for any future periods.
In management’s opinion, these unaudited condensed consolidated interim financial statements contain all adjustments of a normal recurring nature necessary for a fair presentation of the financial statements for the interim periods presented
We have elected to present the analysis of changes in stockholders’ equity quarterly in statement form for the current and comparative year to date interim periods and state the amount of dividends per share in the aggregate for each class of shares in accordance with the provisions in Regulation S-X, Rule 8-03(a)(5) and 10-01(a)(7).
These unaudited condensed consolidated interim financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2018, as reported in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K.
The Company’s significant accounting policies and practices are as described in the Annual Report, except for the adoption of the accounting standards described in Note 3 below.
Statement of Operations
We classify cloud-based subscriptions and other services, such as font related services, custom font design and post contract support as service revenue on our condensed consolidated statements of operations.
All other revenue is classified as license revenue.
See Note 14 for further details.
3.
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements
Adopted
Leases
Table of Contents
We adopted ASU 2016-02 on January 1, 2019.
We elected the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance within the new standard, which among other things allows us to carryforward the historical lease classification.
We also elected the practical expedient that allows an accounting policy election to exclude right of use assets and lease obligations from the balance sheet for all leases with an initial term of 12 months or less.
As permitted in the standard, the Company is using a modified retrospective approach, where current periods are shown under the new standard, while comparative periods are shown under Accounting Standard Codification No.
840, Leases (prior to the adoption of ASU 2016-02), where entities recognize a cumulative effect to retained earnings at the date of adoption without restating prior periods’ balances or disclosures.
The adoption of ASU 2016-02 on January 1, 2019, had a material impact on our consolidated balance sheet, but did not have a material impact on our consolidated statements of income or cash flows.
The most significant impact of the adoption of ASU 2016-02 was the recognition of additional right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for operating leases.
At adoption, the Company recognized right-of-use assets of approximately $14.4 million and total lease liabilities of $15.9 million.
Derivatives
Comprehensive Income
Pending
Internal Use Software
Defined Benefit Pension Plan
Table of Contents
Fair Value Measurement
Goodwill
We recognize revenue when a customer obtains control of a promised good or service.
The amount of revenue recognized reflects consideration that we expect to be entitled to receive in exchange for these services, and excludes any sales incentives and taxes collected from customers that are subsequently remitted to governmental authorities.
Creative Professional Revenue
Our Creative Professional revenue is primarily derived from rights to use font licenses, custom font design services, our web font and digital ad related services (which includes our web font services and web design tools), and hosted software as a service, or SaaS, offerings.
We license fonts directly to end-users through our direct sales organization, e-commerce websites and indirectly through third-party resellers.
Our customers include graphic designers, advertising agencies, media organizations and corporations.
Revenue from font licenses is recognized upfront when the font software is delivered or made available to the customer.
Custom font design services are generally not a separate distinct performance obligation and are sold with a license for the custom font, in which case revenue is recognized upon completion of the services and when the font is delivered and accepted by the customer.
In limited cases, the Company has an enforceable right to payment prior to final delivery and acceptance of custom font design work.
In these cases, the Company has determined that the proper treatment is a single over-time performance obligation using input methods (incurred hours towards completion) to measure progress towards completion to determine the pattern of satisfaction of the performance obligation.
For our hosted offerings where we provide our customers the right to access our software without taking possession, revenue is recognized over the contract period on a time-elapsed basis, which is consistent with the transfer of service to the customer.
Payment terms and conditions for Creative Professional contracts generally require payment within thirty to sixty days of contract inception.
An exception exists for certain contracts for our SaaS offerings or a limited number of multi-year term license agreements which have periodic payment terms, generally quarterly or annually, over the term of the contract.
In instances where the timing of revenue recognition differs from the respective payment terms, we have considered whether such contracts include a significant financing component, subject to the applicable practical expedient.
The purpose of these payment structures is to align with industry and market standards, not to provide customers with financing.
We have determined our contracts generally do not include a significant financing component; however, the Company will continue to assess (1) the length of time between when the goods or services are delivered and expected payment and (2) prevailing interest rates in the market to re-evaluate this conclusion.
OEM Revenue
Our OEM revenue is derived substantially from printer imaging, printer driver and display imaging products and primarily relates to licenses providing our customers the right to embed our fonts and technology in their products over a certain term.
Under our OEM licensing arrangements, we either receive a fixed fee as specified under the license arrangement or a royalty for each product unit incorporating our fonts and technology that is shipped by our OEM customers.
Although significantly less than royalties from per-unit shipments and fixed fees from OEM customers, we also receive revenue from software application and operating systems vendors, who include our fonts and technology in their products and for font development.
Revenue from per-unit royalty contracts is estimated and recognized in the period that the royalty-bearing event or sale by our OEM customer occurs.
Revenue from fixed fee licenses is generally recognized upfront at the point in time when the software embodying the font is shipped or made available to the customer.
Certain OEM contracts may include customer support services and unspecified updates for our font technology which is a distinct stand-ready performance obligation and recognized ratably over the service period.
Many of our per-unit royalty licenses continue for the duration that our OEM customers ship products that include our technology, unless terminated for breach.
Other licenses have terms that typically range from one fiscal quarter to five years, and usually provide for automatic or optional renewals.
Table of Contents
Disaggregated Revenue
Significant Judgments
Our contracts with customers often include promises to transfer multiple products and services to a customer.
Determining whether products and services are considered distinct performance obligations that should be accounted for separately versus together may require significant judgment.
Once we determine the performance obligations, the Company determines the transaction price, which includes estimating the amount of variable consideration to be included in the transaction price, if any.
We then allocate the transaction price to each performance obligation in the contract based on a relative stand-alone selling price method.
The corresponding revenue is recognized as the related performance obligations are satisfied as discussed in the revenue categories above.
Judgment is required to determine the standalone selling price for each distinct performance obligation.
We determine standalone selling price based on the price at which the performance obligation is sold separately.
If the standalone selling price is not observable through past transactions, we estimate the standalone selling price taking into account available information such as market conditions and internally approved pricing guidelines related to the performance obligations.
As discussed above, certain of our Creative Professional contracts have payment terms that differ from the timing of revenue recognition which requires us to assess whether the transaction price for those contracts include a significant financing component.
We have elected the practical expedient which permits an entity to not adjust for the effects of a significant financing component if we expect that at the contract inception, the period between when the entity transfers a promised good or service to a customer and when the customer pays for that good or service will be one year or less.
For those contracts in which the period exceeds the one year threshold, this assessment, as well as the quantitative estimate of the financing component and its relative significance, requires judgment.
We estimate the significant financing component provided to our customers with extended payment terms by determining the present value of the future payments by applying a discount rate that reflects the customer’s creditworthiness.
Transaction Price Allocated to Future Performance Obligations
The aggregate amount of transaction price allocated to performance obligations consists principally of amounts billed for undelivered services that are included in deferred revenue, as well as unbilled backlog, which is the amount of transaction price allocated to unsatisfied or partially unsatisfied performance obligations, for enforceable contracts when there is not a present
Table of Contents
Contract Balances
Timing of revenue recognition may differ from the timing of invoicing to customers.
We record an unbilled receivable, or contract asset, when revenue is recognized prior to invoicing when we have an enforceable right to payment.
When invoicing occurs prior to revenue recognition, we have unearned revenue, or contract liabilities, presented on our condensed consolidated balance sheet as “deferred revenue” within deferred revenue and other long-term liabilities, as appropriate at March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018.
When invoicing occurs after revenue recognition, we have earned revenue, or contract assets, presented on our condensed consolidated balance sheet as “unbilled receivables” within accounts receivable and other assets, as appropriate at March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018.
Revenue recognized during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2018 from amounts included in deferred revenue at the beginning of the periods were approximately $5.7 million and $6.8 million, respectively.
Revenue recognized during the three month ended March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2018 from performance obligations satisfied or partially satisfied in previous periods, mainly due to changes in the estimate of royalty revenues, is approximately $5.7 million and $4.3 million, respectively.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2018, the change in contract assets reclassified to receivables as a result of the right to the transaction consideration becoming unconditional was not material.
The contract modifications entered into during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2018 did not have a significant impact on the Company’s contract assets or deferred revenue.
Costs to Obtain and Fulfill a Contract
We recognize an asset for the incremental costs of obtaining a contract with a customer if we expect the benefit of those costs to be longer than one year.
We have determined that certain commissions paid under our sales incentive programs meet the requirements to be capitalized.
The amount capitalized for incremental costs to obtain contracts as of March 31, 2019 was $3.8 million, of which $0.7 million was short-term and has been included in prepaid expenses and other current assets and $3.1 million was long term and has been included in other assets in our condensed consolidated balance sheet.
The amount capitalized for incremental costs to obtain contracts as of December 31, 2018 was $3.6 million, of which $0.7 million was short-term and has been included in prepaid expenses and other current assets and $2.9 million was long term and has been included in other assets in our condensed consolidated balance sheet.
Costs to obtain a contract are amortized as sales and marketing expense over the expected period of benefit in a manner that is consistent with the transfer of the related goods or services to which the asset relates.
The judgments made in determining the amount of costs incurred include whether the commissions are in fact incremental and would not have occurred absent the customer contract and the estimate of the amortization period, which ranges between three and ten years depending on the nature of the performance obligations within the contract.
These costs are periodically reviewed for impairment; however, no impairment existed as of March 31, 2019 or as of December 31, 2018.
The amount of capitalized costs related to contracts which were terminated on or before March 31, 2019, due to the customer exercising an opt-out clause or the cancellation of an anticipated renewal was not material and was charged to operating expenses in the first quarter of 2019.
We have elected to apply the practical expedient and recognize the incremental costs of obtaining contracts as an expense when incurred if the amortization period of the assets that the Company otherwise would have recognized is one year or less.
We capitalize incremental costs incurred to fulfill our contracts that (i) relate directly to the contract, (ii) are expected to generate resources that will be used to satisfy the Company’s performance obligation under the contract, and (iii) are expected to be recovered through revenue generated under the contract.
Contract fulfillment costs primarily relate to font license fees that we pay on certain fonts that are owned by third parties.
These fees are related to license revenue that is satisfied at a point in time and payable again upon license renewal, and as a result are incurred immediately upon contract execution.
Accordingly, there are no capitalized costs related to costs to fulfill a contract as of March 31, 2019 or as of December 31, 2018.
Table of Contents
Cash and cash equivalents that are restricted as to withdrawal or use under the terms of contractual agreements are classified on our balance sheet based on relevant restrictions.
At March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, we had $6.0 million and $6.0 million, respectively, of cash held in escrow to be used for payments due in 2019 in connection with the Olapic, Inc. acquisition.
6.
Fair Value Measurements
The Company’s recurring fair value measures relate to short-term investments, which are classified as cash equivalents, derivative instruments and from time-to-time as contingent consideration.
The fair value of our cash equivalents are either based on quoted prices for similar assets or other observable inputs such as yield curves at commonly quoted intervals and other market corroborated inputs.
The fair value of our derivatives is based on quoted market prices from various banking institutions or an independent third-party provider for similar instruments.
In determining the fair value, we consider our non-performance risk and that of our counterparties.
At March 31, 2019, we had one 30-day forward contract to sell 2.6 million British pounds sterling and purchase $3.4 million that together, had an immaterial fair value.
At December 31, 2018, we had one 30-day forward contract to sell 2.7 million British pounds sterling and purchase $3.4 million that together, had an immaterial fair value.
Table of Contents
The Company’s non-financial assets and non-financial liabilities subject to non-recurring measurements include goodwill and intangible assets.
We have operating leases for corporate offices and certain equipment.
Our leases have remaining lease terms of 1 year to 6 years, some of which contain options to extend the leases for up to 5 years and some which include options to terminate the leases within 1 year.
We have lease agreements with lease and non-lease components, which are generally accounted for separately.
We determine if an arrangement is a lease at inception.
Operating leases are included in the operating lease right-of-use (“ROU”) assets and the short-term and long-term lease liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets.
ROU assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
Operating lease ROU assets and liabilities are recognized at commencement date based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term.
As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on information available at commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments.
The operating lease ROU asset also includes any lease payments made and excludes lease incentives.
Our lease terms may include options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise that option.
Lease expense for lease payments is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Pursuant to the terms of the lease agreement for the Company’s NY office, the Company obtained a standby letter-of-credit in the amount of approximately $0.5 million as security on the lease obligation.
The letter-of credit is a reduction of the available borrowings under the Credit facility.
Table of Contents
As of March 31, 2019, we have additional operating leases, primarily for corporate offices, that have not yet commenced of $1.8 million.
These operating leases will commence in 2019 with lease terms of 2 to 5 years.
On March 22, 2019, the Company entered into a new credit agreement (the “New Credit Agreement”) by and among the Company, the Company’s subsidiary, Monotype Imaging Inc., (“the Borrower”), any financial institution that becomes a Lender and Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent.
Pursuant to the New Credit Agreement the Lenders have agreed to provide the Borrower with a five-year $200.0 million senior secured revolving credit facility (the “Credit Facility”).
The Credit Facility permits the Company to request that the Lenders, at their election, increase the secured credit facility to a maximum of $300.0 million.
The Credit Facility provides more flexibility in addition to an increased borrowing capacity and extended terms, as defined above.
The New Credit Agreement replaced the Company’s existing $150.0 million revolving credit facility (the “Original Credit Agreement”) by and between the Company and Silicon Valley Bank.
The Original Credit Agreement was terminated effective March 22, 2019 and was scheduled to expire on September 15, 2020.
The Company had $75.0 million outstanding under the Original Credit Agreement at December 31, 2018.
Available borrowings under the Original Credit Agreement were reduced by approximately $0.5 million for one standby letter of credit issued in connection with a facility lease agreement, leaving $74.5 million available for borrowings at December 31, 2018.
At March 31, 2019, the Company had $70.0 million outstanding under the Credit Facility.
Available borrowings under the Credit Facility have been reduced by approximately $0.5 million for one standby letter of credit issued in connection with a facility lease agreement, leaving $129.5 million available for borrowings at March 31, 2019.
Table of Contents
Borrowings under the Credit Facility bear interest through March 21, 2024 at a variable rate per annum equal to LIBOR plus between 1.0% and 1.625%, or at the Borrower’s option, the higher of (i) the prime rate as announced by Bank of America and (ii) 0.5% plus the overnight federal funds rate, plus in each case, between 0.0% and 0.625%, with the exact interest rate margin determined based on the consolidated leverage ratio.
The Company is required to pay a commitment fee, based on the consolidated leverage ratio, equal to 0.175%, 0.20%, 0.225% or 0.25% per annum on the undrawn portion available under the revolving credit facility and variable per annum fees in respect of outstanding letters of credit.
In connection with the New Credit Agreement, the Company incurred closing and legal fees of approximately $0.9 million, which have been accounted for as deferred financing costs, that, together with approximately $0.3 million of unamortized deferred financing costs associated with loan syndicate lenders who participated in the new facility, will be amortized to interest expense over the term of the New Credit Agreement.
In addition, $34 thousand of unamortized deferred financing costs associated with the pro-rata share of prior loan syndicate lenders that did not participate in the new facility were written off and charged to other expense in the first quarter of 2019.
The New Credit Agreement includes financial covenants which require the Company to maintain (i) a consolidated leverage ratio of no greater than 3.25 to 1.0 or, upon a qualified acquisition subject to certain conditions, 3.75 to 1.0 and (ii) a minimum consolidated interest coverage ratio of 3.00 to 1.0.
At March 31, 2019, our consolidated leverage ratio was 0.72 to 1.0 and our consolidated interest coverage ratio was 18.61 to 1.0.
The New Credit Agreement also contains customary affirmative and negative covenants for transactions of this type and other affirmative and negative covenants agreed to by the parties, including, among others, limits on the Company and its subsidiaries’ ability to incur debt or liens, engage in sale-leaseback transactions, make loans, investments and acquisitions, incur additional indebtedness, engage in mergers, enter into asset sales, transact with affiliates and alter its business.
Adjusted EBITDA, under the Credit Facility, is defined as consolidated net earnings (or loss), plus net interest expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization, and share based compensation expense, plus acquisition expenses not to exceed $2.0 million, minus capitalized research and development expense, plus restructuring, issuance costs, cash non-operating costs and other expenses or losses minus cash non-operating gains and other non-cash gains; provided, however that the aggregate of all cash non-operating expense shall not exceed 10% of Consolidated EBITDA.
The New Credit Agreement also provides for a number of customary events of default, including, among others, payment, bankruptcy, covenant, representation and warranty, change of control and judgment defaults.
Failure to comply with these covenants, or the occurrence of an event of default, could permit the Lenders under the New Credit Agreement to declare all amounts borrowed under the New Credit Agreement, together with accrued interest and fees, to be immediately due and payable.
The obligations of the Borrower under the Credit Facilities are unconditionally guaranteed by the Company and certain subsidiaries and secured by a lien on substantially all of the present and future property and assets of the Company and such subsidiaries, in each case, subject to limited exceptions and exclusions.
Table of Contents
As of March 31, 2019, the reserve for unrecognized tax benefits was approximately $4.0 million, all of which is recorded as a reduction of deferred tax assets.
11.
Net Income (Loss) Per Share
For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, the net income (loss) available to common shareholders was divided by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period to calculate diluted earnings per share.
For the three months ended March 31, 2019, the two-class method was used in the computation of diluted net income (loss) per share, as the result was more dilutive.
For the three months ended March 31, 2018, earnings was not allocated to participating securities in the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share as there was a net loss.
The assumed exercise of stock options and assumed vesting of restricted stock and restricted stock units were included in the computation of net income per share for the three months ended March 31, 2019, but were excluded in the computation of net (loss) per share for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as their effect would have been anti-dilutive.
Table of Contents
Stock purchases
Table of Contents
Stock Based Compensation
As of March 31, 2019, the Company had $30.5 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to employees and directors’ unvested stock awards and stock units that are expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 2.3 years.
Geographic segment information
We market our products and services through offices in the United States, United Kingdom, Germany, China, Republic of Korea and Japan.
We report revenue based on the geographic location of our customers.
For example, licenses may be sold to large international companies, which may be headquartered in the Republic of Korea, such revenues would be reported in the Republic of Korea and included in the revenue for Rest Of World in the table below.
Table of Contents
In December 2017, the Company implemented a restructuring plan to accelerate the integration of the Olapic business into the core of Monotype in an effort to improve operational efficiencies and to align its investment in the Olapic business to better support it over time.
The plan provided for the elimination of 89 positions worldwide.
As part of this plan, the Company recorded charges of approximately $3.0 million for severance and termination benefits and $0.2 million of facilities and associated costs.
This restructuring was completed in the third quarter of 2018.
On June 6, 2018, the Company implemented a restructuring plan, under which the Company reduced headcount in certain areas of the Company, made the decision to cease sales and marketing of the Swyft product and service line and to close a regional office, all in an effort to improve operational efficiencies.
The plan provided for the elimination of approximately 50 positions worldwide across a variety of functions, with a concentration within engineering, as well as sales and marketing.
The Company recorded net charges totaling $6.8 million related to severance and termination benefits, net of stock based compensation reversal, the write off of goodwill and intangible assets attributable to Swyft, the acceleration of the final deferred compensation payment to the founders of Swyft, and charges associated with the office closure.
We reversed $1.4 million of stock based compensation expense as a result of forfeitures of awards by employees included in the restructuring plan.
In the three months ended March 31, 2019, the severance and termination accrual was reduced based the completion of certain final termination agreements.
This restructuring plan was completed by December 31, 2018, other than the payment of deferred termination benefits to certain terminated employees.
The Company continued to refine its cost structure, and in December 2018, implemented a restructuring plan in an effort to improve operational efficiencies.
The plan provided for the elimination of 15 positions worldwide, including the positions held by two of the Olapic founders.
To date, the Company recorded charges of approximately $1.0 million for severance and termination benefits associated with this plan and $0.9 million of accelerated expense associated with the final deferred compensation payment in connection with the departure of those founders.
In addition, $0.9 million was recorded for additional stock based compensation expense associated with the acceleration of the vesting of those departing founders’ equity grants in accordance with the separation agreements.
We expect this restructuring plan to be completed by the second quarter of 2019, other than the payment of deferred termination benefits to certain terminated employees.
Future cash expenditures related to the restructuring are expected to be approximately $1.0 million, net of tax savings.
Table of Contents
15.
Commitments and Contingencies
Legal Proceedings
From time-to-time, we may be a party to various claims, suits and complaints.
We do not believe that there are claims or legal proceedings that, if determined adversely to us, would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.
Licensing Warranty
Under our standard license agreement with OEM customers, we warrant that the licensed technologies are free of infringement claims of intellectual property rights and will meet the specifications as defined in the licensing agreement for a one-year period.
Under the licensing agreements, liability for such indemnity obligations is limited, generally to the total arrangement fee; however, exceptions have been made on a case-by-case basis, increasing the maximum potential liability to agreed-upon amounts at the time the contract is entered into or unlimited liability.
We have never incurred costs payable to a customer or business partner to defend lawsuits or settle claims related to these warranties, and as a result, management believes the estimated fair value of these warranties is minimal.
Accordingly, there are no liabilities recorded for these warranties as of March 31, 2019 or December 31, 2018.
Stock Purchase Program
Subsequent to March 31, 2019, the Company purchased 44,600 shares of common stock for $0.9 million, at an average price per share of $20.19 through April 19, 2019.
The Company purchased these shares on the open market at prevailing market prices and in accordance with its previously announced share purchase program.
At April 19, 2019, $0.3 million remains for future purchase under the Plan.
Dividend Declaration
On April 18, 2019, the Company’s Board of Directors declared an $0.116 per share quarterly cash dividend on our outstanding common stock.
The record date is set for July 1, 2019, and the dividend is payable to shareholders of record on July 19, 2019.
Dividends are declared at the discretion of the Company’s Board of Directors and depend on actual cash from operations, the Company’s financial condition and capital requirements and any other factors the Company’s Board of Directors may consider relevant.
Future dividend declarations, as well as the record and payment dates for such dividends, will be determined by the Company’s Board of Directors on a quarterly basis.
 Item 1.
Legal Proceedings
From time to time, we may be a party to various claims, suits and complaints.
We do not believe that there are claims or legal proceedings that, if determined adversely to us, would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.
 Item 1A.
Risk Factors
There are no material changes in our risk factors from those disclosed in Part I, Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
