Item 3.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk  

We are exposed to financial market risk, including interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange risk.
Concentration of Revenue and Credit Risk  

Financial instruments that potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk consist principally of cash and cash equivalents and trade receivables.
Cash equivalents consist primarily of bank deposits.
Deposits of cash held outside the United States totaled approximately $23.6 million and $24.3 million at June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.
We grant credit to customers in the ordinary course of business.
Credit evaluations are performed on an ongoing basis to reduce credit risk, and no collateral is required from our customers.
An allowance for uncollectible accounts is provided for those accounts receivable considered to be uncollectible based upon historical experience and credit evaluation.
As of June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, none of our customers individually accounted for 10% or more of our gross accounts receivable.
Due to the nature of our quarterly revenue streams derived from royalty revenue, it is not unusual for our accounts receivable balances to include a few customers with large balances.
Historically, we have not recorded material losses due to customers’ nonpayment.
Our Creative Professional business consists of a higher volume of lower dollar value transactions.
Accordingly, as the percent of Creative Professional revenue increases in relation to total revenue, we expect the average time to collect our accounts receivables, and our overall accounts receivables balances, to increase.
For the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, no customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenue.
Interest Rate Risk  

Our exposure to market risk associated with changes in interest rates relates primarily to our long-term debt.
At June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the Company had borrowings under our revolving Credit Facility of $85.0 million and $93.0 million, respectively.
The interest rate on our Credit Facility fluctuates with either the prime rate or the LIBOR interest rate and at June 30, 2018, our rate was 3.8% for LIBOR.
A 10% increase in the rate would have increased our interest expense by $0.2 million.
Table of Contents 

Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk  


As discussed in Note 15, our wholly-owned Olapic Argentina S.A. subsidiary employs approximately 93 people whose functions mainly include development, sales support and administration.
The Argentinian economy was recently determined to be highly inflationary.
Argentina’s inflation rate reached this threshold with the quarterly period ended June 30, 2018.
The average quarterly exchange rate for the Argentinian peso has devalued approximately 23.6% and 33.4% in the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively.
The operation is a service center supporting the company’s products and generates no revenue.
Thus, the expenses primarily consist of compensation and related costs, totaling approximately $0.4 million to $0.5 million per month.
For the interim periods ended June 30, 2018, the functional currency for our subsidiary is the Argentinian peso, the foreign entity’s local currency.
In accordance with this designation, we are required to apply the guidance in ASC Topic 830, Foreign Currency Matters, (Subtopic ASC 830-10-45-10), and account for a change in functional currency from the Argentinian peso to the U.S. dollar effective July 1, 2018.
We are currently in the process of evaluating the impact of this accounting change on our financial statements.
We incur foreign currency exchange gains and losses related to certain customers that are invoiced in U.S. dollars, but who have the option to make an equivalent payment in their own functional currencies at a specified exchange rate as of a specified date.
In the period from that date until payment in the customer’s functional currency is received and converted into U.S. dollars, we can incur realized gains and losses.
We also incur foreign currency exchange gains and losses on certain intercompany assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies.
We are currently utilizing 30-day forward contracts to mitigate our exposure on these currency fluctuations.
Any increase or decrease in the fair value of the forward contracts is offset by the change in the value of the hedged assets of our consolidated foreign affiliate.
At June 30, 2018, we had one 30-day forward contract to sell 2.6 million British pounds sterling and to purchase $3.4 million that together, had an immaterial fair value, and at December 31, 2017, we had one 30-day forward contract to sell 2.5 million British pound sterling and to purchase $3.4 million that together, had an immaterial fair value.
Item 3.
Defaults Upon Senior Securities  

Not applicable.
