fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
Fiscal years 2019 and 2018 each contain(ed) 52 weeks.
The third quarter of fiscal 2019 ended on September 29, 2019 and the third quarter of fiscal 2018 ended on September 30, 2018.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP") and include the accounts of Cypress Semiconductor Corporation and its subsidiaries.
All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.
In the opinion of management, the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements contain all adjustments of a normal, recurring nature, which are necessary to state fairly the financial information included therein.
On September 29, 2019, the Company acquired the minority shareholders' noncontrolling interest in AgigA Tech, Inc. ("AgigA") for total cash consideration of $3.9 million, making AgigA a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company.
Substantially all of such consideration was paid in October 2019.
The Company will, consistent with the presentation in prior periods, continue to report AgigA's financial results under its Memory Products Division.
On June 3, 2019, the Company entered into a definitive Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "Merger Agreement") with Infineon Technologies AG, a stock corporation (Aktiengesellschaft) organized under the laws of the Federal Republic of Germany ("Infineon") and IFX Merger Sub Inc., a Delaware corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of Infineon ("Merger Sub").
Refer to Note 2 Merger Agreement for further details.
Finance leases are included in property and equipment, current portion of long-term debt, revolving credit facility and long-term portion of debt in the Company's consolidated balance sheets.
The Company has elected the practical expedient within ASC Topic 842 to not separate lease and non-lease components within lease transactions for all classes of assets.
Additionally, the Company has elected the short-term lease exception for all classes of assets, does not apply the recognition requirements for leases of 12 months or less, and recognizes lease payments for short-term leases as expense either straight-line over the lease term or as incurred depending on whether the lease payments are fixed or variable.
These elections are applied consistently for all leases.


item2.txt
Cypress is committed to providing customers with quality support and engineering resources.
Refer to Note 2 Merger Agreement of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this Quarterly Report for a description of our pending acquisition by Infineon Technologies AG ("Infineon").
Refer to Part I, Item 1 (Business) in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 30, 2018 for a discussion of our strategies.
Revenue from the NAND flash business which was divested on April 1, 2019 was $43.3 million in the three months ended September 30, 2018.
The decrease was primarily due to demand softening across our NOR flash and microcontroller businesses.


item3.txt
Due to the relatively short-term nature of our investment portfolio, we do not believe that an immediate increase in interest rates would have a material effect on the fair market value of our portfolio.


item4.txt



part2.txt
The information required by this item is included in Note 13 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Part I Item 1, of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and is incorporated herein by reference.
Regulatory and governmental entities may impose conditions on the granting of the required regulatory clearances and approvals described above.
Our joint venture for NAND flash memory products might not be successful.


