fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
The second quarter of fiscal 2018 ended on July 1, 2018 and the second quarter of fiscal 2017 ended on July 2, 2017.
All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.
In the opinion of management, the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements contain all adjustments of a normal, recurring nature, which are necessary to state fairly the financial information included therein.
These financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included in Cypress' Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017.
The year-end condensed balance sheet data was derived from audited financial statements, but does not include all disclosures required by GAAP.
This standard update intends to increase the transparency and improve comparability by requiring entities to recognize assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for all leases, with certain exceptions.
Leases will be classified as either finance or operating, with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
This standard update outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers.
On January 1, 2018, we adopted Topic 606 using the modified retrospective method applied to all contracts that are not completed contracts at the date of initial application (i.e., January 1, 2018).
Results for reporting periods after January 1, 2018 are presented under Topic 606, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with our historic accounting under Topic 605.
Revenues are recognized when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to our customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services.
Sales of products with alternative use account for the majority of our revenue and are recognized at a point in time, the timing of such recognition remained the same under Topic 606.
The Company's revenue arrangements do not contain significant financing components.
We then select an appropriate method for measuring progress toward complete satisfaction of the performance obligation, usually costs incurred to date relative to the total expected costs to the satisfaction of that performance obligation.
These adjustments and allowances are accounted for as variable consideration.


item2.txt
Cypress’ superior connectivity, flexible computing, fail-safe storage, and secure, ultra-low power solutions help developers bring their smart products to market quickly and easily.
Cypress is committed to providing customers with the best support and development resources enabling them to disrupt markets by creating new product categories in record time.
Memory Products Division  MPD focuses on specialized, high-performance parallel and serial NOR flash memories, NAND flash memories, static random access memory (SRAM), F-RAM™ ferroelectric memory devices, non-volatile SRAM (nvSRAM), other specialty memories and timing solutions.
This division also includes our subsidiary AgigA Tech Inc.
Refer to Part I Item 1. Business in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 for a discussion of our strategies.
Revenues recorded by MCD increased by $8.0 million, or 2.2%, in the three months ended July 1, 2018 compared to the same prior year period.


item3.txt
Our debt obligations consist of a variety of financial instruments that expose us to interest rate risk, including, but not limited to our revolving credit facility, term loans and exchangeable notes.
On January 3, 2018, we evaluated the hedge effectiveness of the interest rate swaps and have designated these swaps as hedging instruments.


item4.txt
Additionally, in designing disclosure controls and procedures, our management necessarily was required to apply its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible disclosure controls and procedures.


part2.txt
For example, our sales were impacted in the second quarter of 2018 when the U.S. Department of Commerce banned U.S. companies from providing exports to ZTE, a Chinese telecoms equipment manufacturer (which ban was subsequently lifted in the third quarter of 2018) in an export controls case.
Similarly, general trade tensions between the U.S. and China have been escalating in 2018, with one round of U.S. tariffs on Chinese goods taking effect in July 2018 followed by a round of retaliatory Chinese tariffs on U.S. goods.


