The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
The first quarter of fiscal 2019 ended on March 31, 2019 and the first quarter of fiscal 2018 ended on April 1, 2018.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP") and include the accounts of Cypress Semiconductor Corporation and its subsidiaries.
All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.
In the opinion of management, the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements contain all adjustments of a normal, recurring nature, which are necessary to state fairly the financial information included therein.
These financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included in Cypress' Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2018.
Finance leases are included in property and equipment, current portion of long-term debt, revolving credit facility and long-term portion of debt in our consolidated balance sheets.
The Company has elected the practical expedient within ASC Topic 842 to not separate lease and non-lease components within lease transactions for all classes of assets.
Additionally, the Company has elected the short-term lease exception for all classes of assets, does not apply the recognition requirements for leases of 12 months or less, and recognizes lease payments for short-term leases as expense either straight-line over the lease term or as incurred depending on whether the lease payments are fixed or variable.
These elections are applied consistently for all leases.Cypress manufactures and sells advanced embedded system solutions for automotive, industrial, consumer and enterprise end markets.
Cypress is committed to providing customers with quality support and engineering resources.
The portfolio includes specialized, high-performance parallel and serial NOR flash memories, static random access memories ("SRAM"), F-RAM™ ferroelectric memory devices, nonvolatile SRAMs ("nvSRAM"), and other specialty memories.Our debt obligations consist of a variety of financial instruments that expose us to interest rate risk, including, but not limited to our revolving credit facility, term loans and exchangeable notes.The information required by this item is included in Note 11 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Part I Item 1, of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and is incorporated herein by reference.