fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements of Preformed Line Products Company and subsidiaries (the “Company” or “PLPC”) have been prepared in accordance with United States of America (U.S.) generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X.
For further information, refer to the consolidated financial statements and notes to consolidated financial statements included in the Company’s 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on March 9, 2018 with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
All revenue is recognized when the Company satisfies the performance obligations under the contract and control of the product is transferred to the customer, primarily based on shipping terms.
An actual valuation of inventories under the LIFO method can be made only at the end of the year based on the inventory levels and costs at that time.
During the three month and six-month periods ended June 30, 2018, the net change in LIFO inventories resulted in $.2 million and $.4 million of expense, respectively, to Income before income taxes.
During the three month and six-month periods ended June 30, 2017, the net change in LIFO inventories resulted in a less than $.1 million benefit and a less than $.1 million of expense, respectively, to Income before income taxes.
The Company has liability insurance to cover many of these claims.
The Company and its subsidiaries Helix Uniformed Ltd. (“Helix”) and Preformed Line Products (Canada) Limited (“PLPC Canada”), were each named, jointly and severally, with each of SNC-Lavalin ATP, Inc. (“SNC ATP”), HD Supply Canada Inc., by its trade names HD Supply Power Solutions and HD Supply Utilities (“HD Supply”), and Anixter Power Solutions Canada Inc. (the corporate successor to HD Supply, “Anixter” and, together with the Company, PLPC Canada, Helix, SNC ATP and HD Supply, the “Defendants”) in a complaint filed by Altalink, L.P. (the “Plaintiff”) in the Court of Queen’s Bench of Alberta in Alberta, Canada in November 2016 (the “Complaint”).
The Company will contribute $.1 million of additional funding to the Plan during the second half of 2018 and is continuing to evaluate the benefits of contributing additional funds to the Plan during the remainder of the current fiscal year.
For the three and six-month periods ended June 30, 2017, 48,498 and 47,679 stock options, respectively, were excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share as the effect would have been anti-dilutive.
The Company then compares the fair value of the reporting unit with its carrying value to assess if goodwill has been impaired.
Based on the assumptions as to growth, discount rates and the weighting used for each respective valuation methodology, results of the valuations could be significantly different.
However, the Company believes that the methodologies and weightings used are reasonable and result in appropriate fair values of the reporting units.
As all stock options from the 1999 Stock Option Plan are fully vested, the Company recorded no compensation expense related to stock options for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017.
The Company maintains an equity award program to give the Company a competitive advantage in attracting, retaining, and motivating officers, employees and directors and to provide an incentive to those individuals to increase shareholder value through long-term incentives directly linked to the Company’s performance.
Under the Preformed Line Products Company Long Term Incentive Plan of 2008 (the “LTIP”), certain employees, officers, and directors were eligible to receive awards of options, restricted shares and restricted share units (RSUs).


item2.txt
We are an international designer and manufacturer of products and systems employed in the construction and maintenance of overhead and underground networks for the energy, telecommunication, cable operators, information (data communication), and other similar industries.
Our goal is to continue to achieve profitable growth as a leader in the research, innovation, development, manufacture, and marketing of technically advanced products and services related to energy, communications and cable systems and to take advantage of this leadership position to sell additional quality products in familiar markets.
The segment managers responsible for each region report directly to the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, who is the chief operating decision maker, and are accountable for the financial results and performance of their entire segment for which they are responsible.
The business components within each segment are managed to maximize the results of the entire operating segment and Company rather than the results of any individual business component of the segment.
Net sales for the three months ended June 30, 2018 of $108.9 million increased $11.4 million, or 11.7%, compared to 2017.
Gross profit for the three months ended June 30, 2018 of $35.2 million increased $5.5 million, or 18.6%, compared to 2017.
Costs and expenses of $25.9 million increased $2.5 million compared to 2017, including a favorable impact from currency translation of $.3 million.
Operating income for the three months ended June 30, 2018 was $9.3 million, an increase of $3.0 million compared to 2017.
Net income for the three months ended June 30, 2018 of $6.7 million increased $2.6 million compared to the three months ended June 30, 2017.
Costs and expenses of $49.6 million increased $3.9 million compared to 2017 and included an unfavorable impact from currency translation of $.4 million.
The following table sets forth a summary of the Company’s Statements of Consolidated Income and the percentage of net sales for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017.
The year over year increase in PLP-USA net sales of $4.6 million, or 12%, was primarily due to a volume increase in energy product sales.


item3.txt
The Company believes that the political and economic risks related to the Company’s international operations are mitigated due to the geographic diversity in which the Company’s international operations are located.


item4.txt



part2.txt
The Company and its subsidiaries, Helix Uniformed Ltd. (“Helix”) and Preformed Line Products (Canada) Limited (“PLPC Canada”), were each named, jointly and severally, with each of SNC-Lavalin ATP, Inc. (“SNC ATP”), HD Supply Canada Inc., by its trade names HD Supply Power Solutions and HD Supply Utilities (“HD Supply”), and Anixter Power Solutions Canada Inc. (the corporate successor to HD Supply, “Anixter” and, together with the Company, PLPC Canada, Helix, SNC ATP and HD Supply, the “Defendants”) in a complaint filed by Altalink, L.P. (the “Plaintiff”) in the Court of Queen’s Bench of Alberta in Alberta, Canada in November 2016 (the “Complaint”).


