The total purchase consideration related to acquisitions completed during the first six months of fiscal 2019 consisted of cash consideration. The total cash and cash equivalents acquired from these acquisitions was approximately $85 million. Total transaction costs related to acquisition and divestiture activities were $11 million and $14 million for the first six months of fiscal 2019 and 
We design, manufacture, and sell Internet Protocol (IP)-based networking and other products related to the communications and information technology (IT) industry and provide services associated with these products and their use. 
18.Segment Information and Major Customers 
For example, the enterprise data center is undergoing a fundamental transformation arising from the convergence of technologies, including computing, networking, storage, and software, that previously were segregated. Due to several factors, including the availability of highly scalable and general purpose microprocessors, ASICs offering advanced services, standards based protocols, cloud computing and virtualization, the convergence of technologies within the enterprise data center is spanning multiple, previously independent, technology segments. Also, some of our current and potential competitors for enterprise data center business have made acquisitions, or announced new strategic alliances, designed to position them to provide end-to-end technology solutions for the enterprise data center. As a result of all of these developments, we face greater competition in the development and sale of enterprise data center technologies, including competition from entities that are among our long-term strategic alliance partners. Companies that are strategic alliance partners in some areas of our business may acquire or form alliances with our competitors, thereby reducing their business with us.
As we continue to expand globally, we may see new competition in different geographic regions. In particular, we have experienced price-focused competition from competitors in Asia, especially from China, and we anticipate this will continue. Our competitors include Amazon Web Services LLC; Arista Networks, Inc.; ARRIS Group, Inc.; Check Point Software Technologies Ltd.; Dell Technologies Inc.; Extreme Networks, Inc.; F5 Networks, Inc.; FireEye, Inc.; Fortinet, Inc.; Hewlett-Packard Enterprise Company; Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd.; Juniper Networks, Inc.; Lenovo Group Limited; Microsoft Corporation; New Relic, Inc.; Nokia Corporation; Nutanix, Inc.; Palo Alto Networks, Inc.; Symantec Corporation; Ubiquiti Networks and VMware, Inc.; among others. 
Revenue in the United States was $6.4 billion and $6.1 billion for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018, respectively, and $13.3 billion and $12.6 billion for the first six months of fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018, respectively.
As we focus on new market opportunities and key priority and growth areas, we will increasingly compete with large telecommunications equipment suppliers as well as startup companies. Several of our competitors may have greater resources, including technical and engineering resources, than we do. Additionally, as customers in these markets complete infrastructure deployments, they may require greater levels of service, support, and financing than we have provided in the past, especially in emerging countries. Demand for these types of service, support, or financing contracts may increase in the future. There can be no assurance that we can provide products, service, support, and financing to effectively compete for these market opportunities. 
During the first six months of fiscal 2018, we recorded legal and indemnification settlement charges of $127 million to product cost of sales related to prior indemnification matters resolved in fiscal 2018. 
Changes in service gross margin may result from various factors such as changes in the mix between technical support services and advanced services, as well as the timing of technical support service contract initiations and renewals and the addition of personnel and other resources to support higher levels of service business in future periods. Revenue from the Infrastructure Platforms product category increased 8% or $1,080 million, with strength across the portfolio. Switching had solid growth, with solid revenue growth in campus switching driven by an increase in sales of our intent-based networking Catalyst 9000 Series, and with revenue growth in data center switching driven by increased revenue from our Nexus 9000 Series. Routing experienced revenue growth driven by growth in the service provider market. We experienced double digit revenue growth from wireless products driven by our Wave 2 offerings and Meraki. Revenue from data center increased driven by higher sales of our hyperconverged data center offering, HyperFlex, and our server products. 
The Infrastructure Platforms product category represents our core networking offerings related to switching, routing, wireless, and the data center. Infrastructure Platforms revenue increased by 6%, or $418 million. Switching had solid growth, with double digit revenue growth in campus switching driven by an increase in sales of our intent-based networking Catalyst 9000 Series. We also had double digit revenue growth from wireless products driven by our Wave 2 offerings as well as Meraki. Revenue from our routing products decreased due to weakness in the service provider market. Revenue from data center also decreased driven by lower sales of server products partially offset by revenue growth in our hyperconverged data center offering, HyperFlex. 
The gross margin percentage for a particular segment may fluctuate, and period-to-period changes in such percentages may or may not be indicative of a trend for that segment. 
The decrease in revenue from our Other Products category for the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019, compared to corresponding periods of fiscal 2018, was primarily driven by a decrease in revenue from the SPVSS business which we divested on October 28, 2018.
Service revenue was flat. Service revenue not including the SPVSS business in the prior year period increased by 1% . The service revenue increase in the EMEA segment offset the decreases in service revenue in our APJC and Americas segments. 
Our service gross margin percentage decreased by 0.8 percentage points due to increased headcount-related costs and increased delivery costs, partially offset by favorable mix.Some of our competitors compete across many of our product lines, while others are primarily focused in a specific product area. Barriers to entry are relatively low, and new ventures to create products that do or could compete with our products are regularly formed. In addition, some of our competitors may have greater resources, including technical and engineering resources, than we do. As we expand into new markets, we will face competition not only from our existing competitors but also from other competitors, including existing companies with strong technological, marketing, and sales positions in those markets. We also sometimes face competition from resellers and distributors of our products. Companies with which we have strategic alliances in some areas may be competitors in other areas, and in our view this trend may increase. 
For example, the enterprise data center is undergoing a fundamental transformation arising from the convergence of technologies, including computing, networking, storage, and software, that previously were segregated. Due to several factors, including the availability of highly scalable and general purpose microprocessors, ASICs offering advanced services, standards based protocols, cloud computing and virtualization, the convergence of technologies within the enterprise data center is spanning multiple, previously independent, technology segments. Also, some of our current and potential competitors for enterprise data center business have made acquisitions, or announced new strategic alliances, designed to position them to provide end-to-end technology solutions for the enterprise data center. As a result of all of these developments, we face greater competition in the development and sale of enterprise data center technologies, including competition from entities that are among our long-term strategic alliance partners. Companies that are strategic alliance partners in some areas of our business may acquire or form alliances with our competitors, thereby reducing their business with us.
As we continue to expand globally, we may see new competition in different geographic regions. In particular, we have experienced price-focused competition from competitors in Asia, especially from China, and we anticipate this will continue. Our competitors include Amazon Web Services LLC; Arista Networks, Inc.; ARRIS Group, Inc.; Check Point Software Technologies Ltd.; Dell Technologies Inc.; Extreme Networks, Inc.; F5 Networks, Inc.; FireEye, Inc.; Fortinet, Inc.; Hewlett-Packard Enterprise Company; Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd.; Juniper Networks, Inc.; Lenovo Group Limited; Microsoft Corporation; New Relic, Inc.; Nokia Corporation; Nutanix, Inc.; Palo Alto Networks, Inc.; Symantec Corporation; Ubiquiti Networks and VMware, Inc.; among others. 