Some of our competitors compete across many of our product lines, while others are primarily focused in a specific product area. Barriers to entry are relatively low, and new ventures to create products that do or could compete with our products are regularly formed. In addition, some of our competitors may have greater resources, including technical and engineering resources, than we do. As we expand into new markets, we will face competition not only from our existing competitors but also from other competitors, including existing companies with strong technological, marketing, and sales positions in those markets. We also sometimes face competition from resellers and distributors of our products. Companies with which we have strategic alliances in some areas may be competitors in other areas, and in our view this trend may increase. 
17.Segment Information and Major Customers 
For example, the enterprise data center is undergoing a fundamental transformation arising from the convergence of technologies, including computing, networking, storage, and software, that previously were segregated. Due to several factors, including the availability of highly scalable and general purpose microprocessors, ASICs offering advanced services, standards based protocols, cloud computing and virtualization, the convergence of technologies within the enterprise data center is spanning multiple, previously independent, technology segments. Also, some of our current and potential competitors for enterprise data center business have made acquisitions, or announced new strategic alliances, designed to position them to provide end-to-end technology solutions for the enterprise data center. As a result of all of these developments, we face greater competition in the development and sale of enterprise data center technologies, including competition from entities that are among our long-term strategic alliance partners. Companies that are strategic alliance partners in some areas of our business may acquire or form alliances with our competitors, thereby reducing their business with us.
As we continue to expand globally, we may see new competition in different geographic regions. In particular, we have experienced price-focused competition from competitors in Asia, especially from China, and we anticipate this will continue. Our competitors include Amazon Web Services LLC; Arista Networks, Inc.; ARRIS Group, Inc.; Check Point Software Technologies Ltd.; Dell Technologies Inc.; Extreme Networks, Inc.; F5 Networks, Inc.; FireEye, Inc.; Fortinet, Inc.; Hewlett-Packard Enterprise Company; Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd.; Juniper Networks, Inc.; Lenovo Group Limited; Microsoft Corporation; New Relic, Inc.; Nokia Corporation; Nutanix, Inc.; Palo Alto Networks, Inc.; Symantec Corporation; Ubiquiti Networks and VMware, Inc.; among others. 
The Company completed two divestitures during the second quarter of fiscal 2018. The financial statement impact of these divestitures was not material for the nine months ended April 28, 2018. 
As we focus on new market opportunities and key priority and growth areas, we will increasingly compete with large telecommunications equipment suppliers as well as startup companies. Several of our competitors may have greater resources, including technical and engineering resources, than we do. Additionally, as customers in these markets complete infrastructure deployments, they may require greater levels of service, support, and financing than we have provided in the past, especially in emerging countries. Demand for these types of service, support, or financing contracts may increase in the future. There can be no assurance that we can provide products, service, support, and financing to effectively compete for these market opportunities. 
As is the case with leading products around the world, our products are subject to efforts by third parties to produce counterfeit versions of our products. While we work diligently with law enforcement authorities in various countries to 
Changes in service gross margin may result from various factors such as changes in the mix between technical support services and advanced services, as well as the timing of technical support service contract initiations and renewals and the addition of personnel and other resources to support higher levels of service business in future periods. 
Our strategy is to lead our customers in their digital transition with solutions that deliver greater agility, productivity, security and other advanced network capabilities, and that intelligently connect nearly everything that can be connected. Over the last few years, we have been transforming our business to move from selling individual products and services to selling products and services integrated into architectures and solutions, and we are seeking to meet the evolving needs of customers which include offering our products and solutions in the manner in which customers wish to consume them. As a part of this transformation, we continue to make changes to how we are organized and how we build and deliver our technology, including changes in our business models with customers. If our strategy for addressing our customer needs, or the architectures and solutions we develop do not meet those needs, or the changes we are making in how we are organized and how we build and deliver or technology is incorrect or ineffective, our business could be harmed.For the third quarter of fiscal 2018, as compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2017, operating income decreased by 1% and as a percentage of revenue operating income decreased by 1.4 percentage points. These decreases resulted primarily from a gross margin percentage decrease and an increase in operating expenses.
Revenue from the Infrastructure Platforms product category was flat as the increases in sales of switching, data center and wireless products were offset by the decreased revenue in routing. Within switching, we experienced an increase in sales of data center switches, driven by strength in our Application Centric Infrastructure (ACI) portfolio. Revenue from campus switching decreased modestly but we saw solid momentum with our intent-based networking Catalyst 9000 Series. We experienced strong revenue growth in our data center products driven by higher sales of server products and HyperFlex and solid revenue growth from wireless products. The decrease in routing revenue was driven by continued weakness in the service provider market and a slowdown in enterprise routing sales. 
The Infrastructure Platforms product category represents our core networking offerings related to switching, routing, wireless, and the data center. Infrastructure Platforms revenue increased by 2%, or $171 million, with strength across the portfolio with the exception of routing. Switching returned to growth with revenue growth in our data center and campus switching. Revenue growth from our campus switching was driven by our intent-based networking Catalyst 9000 Series. We also experienced solid revenue growth from wireless products driven by Meraki as well as our Wave 2 offerings. Our revenue from data center had strong double digit growth driven by higher sales of server products and our hyperconverged data center offering, HyperFlex. We had a decrease in sales of routing products driven by continued weakness in the service provider market. 
For the first nine months of fiscal 2018, as compared with the first nine months of fiscal 2017, operating income was flat and as a percentage of revenue operating income decreased by 0.3 percentage points. These changes resulted primarily from a gross margin percentage decrease (driven primarily by unfavorable impacts from pricing and a charge of $127 million for legal and indemnification settlements partially offset by productivity benefits) and a decrease in restructuring and other charges.
Total revenue increased by 4% compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2017. Within total revenue, product revenue increased by 5% and service revenue increased by 3%. Total gross margin decreased by 0.7 percentage points, driven primarily by unfavorable impacts from pricing, higher memory costs and higher amortization expense from purchased intangible assets, partially offset by productivity improvements. As a percentage of revenue, research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses, collectively, increased by 0.6 percentage points. Operating income as a percentage of revenue decreased by 1.4 percentage points. Diluted earnings per share increased by 12%, driven by a 7% increase in net income and a decrease in diluted share count of 201 million shares.
The decrease in revenue from our Other Products category for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018 as compared to the corresponding periods of fiscal 2017 was primarily driven by a decrease in revenue from Service Provider Video Software and Solutions (“SPVSS”). Some of our competitors compete across many of our product lines, while others are primarily focused in a specific product area. Barriers to entry are relatively low, and new ventures to create products that do or could compete with our products are regularly formed. In addition, some of our competitors may have greater resources, including technical and engineering resources, than we do. As we expand into new markets, we will face competition not only from our existing competitors but also from other competitors, including existing companies with strong technological, marketing, and sales positions in those markets. We also sometimes face competition from resellers and distributors of our products. Companies with which we have strategic alliances in some areas may be competitors in other areas, and in our view this trend may increase. 
For example, the enterprise data center is undergoing a fundamental transformation arising from the convergence of technologies, including computing, networking, storage, and software, that previously were segregated. Due to several factors, including the availability of highly scalable and general purpose microprocessors, ASICs offering advanced services, standards based protocols, cloud computing and virtualization, the convergence of technologies within the enterprise data center is spanning multiple, previously independent, technology segments. Also, some of our current and potential competitors for enterprise data center business have made acquisitions, or announced new strategic alliances, designed to position them to provide end-to-end technology solutions for the enterprise data center. As a result of all of these developments, we face greater competition in the development and sale of enterprise data center technologies, including competition from entities that are among our long-term strategic alliance partners. Companies that are strategic alliance partners in some areas of our business may acquire or form alliances with our competitors, thereby reducing their business with us.
As we continue to expand globally, we may see new competition in different geographic regions. In particular, we have experienced price-focused competition from competitors in Asia, especially from China, and we anticipate this will continue. Our competitors include Amazon Web Services LLC; Arista Networks, Inc.; ARRIS Group, Inc.; Check Point Software Technologies Ltd.; Dell Technologies Inc.; Extreme Networks, Inc.; F5 Networks, Inc.; FireEye, Inc.; Fortinet, Inc.; Hewlett-Packard Enterprise Company; Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd.; Juniper Networks, Inc.; Lenovo Group Limited; Microsoft Corporation; New Relic, Inc.; Nokia Corporation; Nutanix, Inc.; Palo Alto Networks, Inc.; Symantec Corporation; Ubiquiti Networks and VMware, Inc.; among others. 
As a result of a variety of factors discussed in this report, our revenue for a particular quarter is difficult to predict, especially in light of a challenging and inconsistent global macroeconomic environment and related market uncertainty. 