We design, manufacture, and sell Internet Protocol (IP)-based networking and other products related to the communications and information technology (IT) industry and provide services associated with these products and their use. 
18.Segment Information and Major Customers 
We completed two divestitures during the second quarter of fiscal 2018. The financial statement impact of these divestitures was not material for the first nine months of fiscal 2018.
For example, the enterprise data center is undergoing a fundamental transformation arising from the convergence of technologies, including computing, networking, storage, and software, that previously were segregated. Due to several factors, including the availability of highly scalable and general purpose microprocessors, ASICs offering advanced services, standards based protocols, cloud computing and virtualization, the convergence of technologies within the enterprise data center is spanning multiple, previously independent, technology segments. Also, some of our current and potential competitors for enterprise data center business have made acquisitions, or announced new strategic alliances, designed to position them to provide end-to-end technology solutions for the enterprise data center. As a result of all of these developments, we face greater competition in the development and sale of enterprise data center technologies, including competition from entities that are among our long-term strategic alliance partners. Companies that are strategic alliance partners in some areas of our business may acquire or form alliances with our competitors, thereby reducing their business with us.
As we continue to expand globally, we may see new competition in different geographic regions. In particular, we have experienced price-focused competition from competitors in Asia, especially from China, and we anticipate this will continue. Our competitors include Amazon Web Services LLC; Arista Networks, Inc.; ARRIS Group, Inc.; Check Point Software Technologies Ltd.; Dell Technologies Inc.; Extreme Networks, Inc.; F5 Networks, Inc.; FireEye, Inc.; Fortinet, Inc.; Hewlett-Packard Enterprise Company; Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd.; Juniper Networks, Inc.; Lenovo Group Limited; LogMeIn, Inc.; Microsoft Corporation; New Relic, Inc.; Nokia Corporation; Nutanix, Inc.; Palo Alto Networks, Inc.; Symantec Corporation; Ubiquiti Networks, Inc.; VMware, Inc. and Zoom Video Communications, Inc.; among others. 
During the first nine months of fiscal 2018, we recorded legal and indemnification settlement charges of $127 million to product cost of sales related to prior indemnification matters resolved in fiscal 2018. 
As we focus on new market opportunities and key priority and growth areas, we will increasingly compete with large telecommunications equipment suppliers as well as startup companies. Several of our competitors may have greater resources, including technical and engineering resources, than we do. Additionally, as customers in these markets complete infrastructure deployments, they may require greater levels of service, support, and financing than we have provided in the past, especially in emerging countries. Demand for these types of service, support, or financing contracts may increase in the future. There can be no assurance that we can provide products, service, support, and financing to effectively compete for these market opportunities. 
Changes in service gross margin may result from various factors such as changes in the mix between technical support services and advanced services, as well as the timing of technical support service contract initiations and renewals and the addition of personnel and other resources to support higher levels of service business in future periods. 
Revenue in the United States was $6.8 billion and $6.2 billion for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $20.2 billion and $18.8 billion for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The application of ASC 606 increased our total revenue by $146 million and $662 million in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019, respectively. The application of ASC 606 did not have a material impact to either our cost of sales or our operating expenses in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019. We recognized a $152 million benefit to our provision for income taxes relating to indirect effects from the adoption of ASC 606 in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. For additional information regarding ASC 606, see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Revenue from the Infrastructure Platforms product category increased 7%, or $1,445 million, with growth across the portfolio. Switching had solid growth, with solid revenue growth in campus switching driven by an increase in sales of our intent-based networking Catalyst 9000 Series, and with revenue growth in data center switching driven by increased revenue from our ACI portfolio. Routing experienced revenue growth driven by an increase in sales of SD-WAN products. We experienced double digit revenue growth from wireless products driven by growth across the portfolio. Revenue from data center increased driven by higher sales of HyperFlex and our server products. 
Total revenue increased by 4% compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2018. Within total revenue, product revenue increased by 4% and service revenue increased by 2%. In the second quarter of fiscal 2019, on October 28, 2018, we completed the sale of our SPVSS business. Total revenue for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 increased 6% not including revenue from the SPVSS business in the prior year period. Total gross margin increased by 0.8 percentage points, driven by productivity improvements partially offset by unfavorable impacts from pricing and mix. Our gross margin also benefited from the sale of our lower margin SPVSS business during the second quarter of fiscal 2019. As a percentage of revenue, research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses decreased by 0.4 percentage points. Operating income as a percentage of revenue increased by 2.0 percentage points. Diluted earnings per share increased by 23%, driven by a 13% increase in net income and a decrease in diluted share count of 429 million shares. 
The gross margin percentage for a particular segment may fluctuate, and period-to-period changes in such percentages may or may not be indicative of a trend for that segment. 
The decrease in revenue from our Other Products category for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019, compared to the corresponding periods of fiscal 2018, was primarily driven by a decrease in revenue from the SPVSS business which we divested on October 28, 2018.
The Infrastructure Platforms product category represents our core networking offerings related to switching, routing, wireless, and the data center. Infrastructure Platforms revenue increased by 5%, or $365 million, with solid growth across the portfolio. The growth in switching was driven by an increase in sales of our intent-based networking Catalyst 9000 Series and strength in our Application Centric Infrastructure (ACI) portfolio. Revenue from our routing products increased driven by growth in our software-defined wide area network (SD-WAN) products. We experienced solid revenue growth from wireless products driven by growth across the portfolio. Revenue from data center also increased driven by higher sales of our hyperconverged data center offering, HyperFlex, and our server products.Some of our competitors compete across many of our product lines, while others are primarily focused in a specific product area. Barriers to entry are relatively low, and new ventures to create products that do or could compete with our products are regularly formed. In addition, some of our competitors may have greater resources, including technical and engineering resources, than we do. As we expand into new markets, we will face competition not only from our existing competitors but also from other competitors, including existing companies with strong technological, marketing, and sales positions in those markets. We also sometimes face competition from resellers and distributors of our products. Companies with which we have strategic alliances in some areas may be competitors in other areas, and in our view this trend may increase. 
For example, the enterprise data center is undergoing a fundamental transformation arising from the convergence of technologies, including computing, networking, storage, and software, that previously were segregated. Due to several factors, including the availability of highly scalable and general purpose microprocessors, ASICs offering advanced services, standards based protocols, cloud computing and virtualization, the convergence of technologies within the enterprise data center is spanning multiple, previously independent, technology segments. Also, some of our current and potential competitors for enterprise data center business have made acquisitions, or announced new strategic alliances, designed to position them to provide end-to-end technology solutions for the enterprise data center. As a result of all of these developments, we face greater competition in the development and sale of enterprise data center technologies, including competition from entities that are among our long-term strategic alliance partners. Companies that are strategic alliance partners in some areas of our business may acquire or form alliances with our competitors, thereby reducing their business with us.
As we continue to expand globally, we may see new competition in different geographic regions. In particular, we have experienced price-focused competition from competitors in Asia, especially from China, and we anticipate this will continue. Our competitors include Amazon Web Services LLC; Arista Networks, Inc.; ARRIS Group, Inc.; Check Point Software Technologies Ltd.; Dell Technologies Inc.; Extreme Networks, Inc.; F5 Networks, Inc.; FireEye, Inc.; Fortinet, Inc.; Hewlett-Packard Enterprise Company; Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd.; Juniper Networks, Inc.; Lenovo Group Limited; LogMeIn, Inc.; Microsoft Corporation; New Relic, Inc.; Nokia Corporation; Nutanix, Inc.; Palo Alto Networks, Inc.; Symantec Corporation; Ubiquiti Networks, Inc.; VMware, Inc. and Zoom Video Communications, Inc.; among others. 