The statements in this Management's Discussion and Analysis that are forward-looking, within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, involve numerous risks and uncertainties and are based on current expectations. The reader should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements for many reasons, including those risks discussed under "Risk Factors" and elsewhere in this document. Often, forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking words, such as "may," "will," "could," "should," "expect," "believe," "anticipate," "estimate," "continue," "plan," "intend," "project" and other similar terminology, or the negative of such terms. We disclaim any responsibility to update or revise any forward-looking statement provided in this Management's Discussion and Analysis for any reason.

In addition to the challenging market conditions we may face, we have limited visibility into the demand for our products, particularly new products, because demand for our products depends upon our products being designed into our end customers' products and those products achieving market acceptance. Due to the complexity of our customers' designs, the design to volume production process for our customers requires a substantial amount of time, frequently longer than a year. In addition, other factors may affect our end customers' demand for our products, including, but not limited to, end customer program delays and the ability of end customers to secure other complementary products. We also are dependent upon "turns," orders received and turned for shipment in the same quarter. Occasionally, market factors may cause demand for our products to increase faster than expected. These factors make it difficult for us to forecast future sales and project quarterly revenues. The difficulty in forecasting future sales impairs our ability to project our inventory requirements, which could result, and in the past has resulted, in inventory write-downs or failure to meet customer product demands in a timely manner. In addition, difficulty in forecasting revenues compromises our ability to provide forward-looking revenue and earnings guidance.

