fls.txt



item1.txt
In the opinion of management, the unaudited interim consolidated condensed financial statements of Applied Materials, Inc. and its subsidiaries (Applied or the Company) included herein have been prepared on a basis consistent with the October 28, 2018 audited consolidated financial statements and include all material adjustments, consisting of normal recurring adjustments, necessary to fairly present the information set forth therein.
These unaudited interim consolidated condensed financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in Applied’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 28, 2018 (2018 Form 10-K).
Applied maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of its customers to make required payments.
Applied’s warranty obligation is affected by product and component failure rates, material usage and labor costs incurred in correcting product failures during the warranty period.
Applied also sells extended warranty contracts to its customers which provide an extension of the standard warranty coverage period of up to 2 years.
Applied receives payment at the inception of the contract and recognizes revenue ratably over the extended warranty coverage period, as the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits of the extended warranty.
Applied recognizes revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to a customer in an amount that reflects the consideration to which Applied expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
Applied determines revenue recognition through the following five steps; (1) identification of the contract(s) with customers, (2) identification of the performance obligations in the contract, (3) determination of the transaction price, (4) allocation of the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract, and (5) recognition of revenue when, or as, a performance obligation is satisfied.
Collectability is assessed based on the customer’s creditworthiness determined by reviewing the customer’s published credit and financial information, historical payment experience, as well as other relevant factors.
Applied’s service agreements are considered one performance obligation and may include multiple goods and services that we provide to the customer to deliver against a performance metric.
Judgment is used to determine whether multiple promised goods or services in a contract should be accounted for separately or as a group.
Applied includes variable consideration in the transaction price to the extent that it is probable that a significant reversal of revenue will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is subsequently resolved.
Applied generally estimates the standalone selling price of a distinct performance obligation based on historical cost plus an appropriate margin.
For contracts with multiple performance obligations, Applied allocates the contract’s transaction price to each performance obligation using the relative standalone selling price of each distinct good or service in the contract.
Generally, the majority of payments are due within a certain number of days from shipment of goods or performance of service.
Applied typically receives deposits on future deliverables from customers in the Display and Adjacent Markets segment and, in certain instances, may also receive deposits from customers in the Applied Global Services segment.


item2.txt
Applied’s results are driven primarily by customer spending on capital equipment and services to support key technology transitions or to increase production volume in response to worldwide demand for semiconductors and displays.
Investment in semiconductor and display manufacturing equipment and services continued to be the main driver of revenue during the first six months of fiscal 2019.
Semiconductor and display manufacturing equipment customers’ investments in new capacity and technology transitions decreased compared to the same period in the prior year.
Applied continued to see growth in demand for services and continued demand for spares from customers as compared to the same period in the prior year.
While Applied anticipates major technology trends to drive long-term growth in the semiconductor industry, the softening in demand that began during the second half of 2018 is expected to continue through 2019, led primarily by lower spending from memory customers.
The three and six months ended April 29, 2018 included a one-time expense related to the enactment of new U.S. tax legislation that reduced diluted earnings per share by $0.07 and $1.02, respectively.
For the three and six months ended April 28, 2019 compared to the same periods in the prior year, net sales decreased primarily due to decreased customer investments in semiconductor and display manufacturing equipment, partially offset by an increase in services revenue.
The increase in net sales to customers in Taiwan, Japan and United States for the three and six months ended April 28, 2019 compared to the same periods in the prior year was primarily due to increased investments in semiconductor manufacturing equipment.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
The amount and mix of capital equipment spending between different products and technologies can have a significant impact on the Company’s results of operations.
To meet rapidly changing demand in the industries it serves, Applied must accurately forecast demand and effectively manage its resources and production capacity across its businesses, and may incur unexpected or additional costs to align its business operations.
During periods of increasing demand for its products, Applied must have sufficient manufacturing capacity and inventory to meet customer demand; effectively manage its supply chain; attract, retain and motivate a sufficient number of qualified employees; and continue to control costs.
During periods of decreasing demand, Applied must reduce costs and align its cost structure with prevailing market conditions; effectively manage its supply chain; and motivate and retain key employees.
If Applied does not effectively manage these challenges during periods of changing demand, its business performance and results of operations may be adversely impacted.


