We develop and distribute content and services on video game consoles, personal computers (“PC”), and mobile devices.
We also operate esports events and leagues and create film and television content based on our intellectual property.
The terms “Activision Blizzard,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” and “our” are used to refer collectively to Activision Blizzard, Inc. and its subsidiaries.
In connection with the 2008 business combination by and among the Company (then known as Activision, Inc.), Vivendi S.A. (“Vivendi”), and Vivendi Games, Inc., then an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Vivendi, we were renamed Activision Blizzard, Inc.
The common stock of Activision Blizzard is traded on The Nasdaq Stock Market under the ticker symbol “ATVI.”
Activision primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including full-game and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Activision products.
Activision develops, markets, and sells products based on our internally developed intellectual properties, as well as some licensed properties.
We have also established a long-term alliance with Bungie to publish its game universe, Destiny.
Blizzard primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including subscriptions, full-game, and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Blizzard products.
Blizzard also maintains a proprietary online gaming service, Blizzard Battle.net®, which facilitates digital distribution of Blizzard content and selected Activision content, online social connectivity, and the creation of user-generated content.
· the Activision Blizzard Distribution (“Distribution”) business, which consists of operations in Europe that provide warehousing, logistics, and sales distribution services to third-party publishers of interactive entertainment software, our own publishing operations, and manufacturers of interactive entertainment hardware.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) and accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S.
GAAP”) for interim reporting.
Accordingly, the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts and operations of the Company.
All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated.
Certain reclassifications have been made to prior year amounts to conform to the current period presentation.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2017, the beginning and ending cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash reported within our condensed consolidated statement of cash flows included restricted cash of $17 million and $10 million, respectively.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, there were no significant changes to our accounting policies, except for our adoption of a new revenue accounting standard as discussed below.
Refer to Note 2 contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 for a summary of our other significant accounting policies.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued new accounting guidance related to revenue recognition.
The new standard replaces all current U.S. GAAP guidance on this topic, eliminating all industry-specific guidance and providing a unified model to determine when and how revenue is recognized.
The core principle is that a company should recognize revenue upon the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
On January 1, 2018, we adopted the new accounting standard and related amendments (collectively, the “new revenue accounting standard”).
As a result, we have updated our significant accounting policy disclosure for revenue recognition herein.
Refer to Note 3 for the impact of adoption on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
· subscriptions to players in our World of Warcraft franchise, which provide continual access to the game content.
When control of the promised products and services is transferred to our customers, we recognize revenue in the amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for these products and services.
· recognizing revenue when, or as, we satisfy performance obligations by transferring the promised goods or services.
For these products, we recognize revenues on the later of the street date and the date the product is sold to our customer.
For digital full-game downloads sold to customers, we recognize revenue when it is available for download or is activated for gameplay.
Payment terms and conditions vary by contract type, although terms generally include a requirement of payment immediately upon purchase or within 30 to 90 days.
Product sales consist of sales of our games, including physical products and digital full-game downloads.
Revenues from product sales are recognized after deducting the estimated allowance for returns and price protection, which are accounted for as variable consideration when estimating the amount of revenue to recognize.
Returns and price protection are estimated at contract inception and updated at the end of each reporting period as additional information becomes available.
This evaluation is performed for each software product or product add-on, including downloadable content.
These products may be sold in a bundle with other products and services, which often results in the recognition of additional performance obligations.
For our online hosted software arrangements, such as titles for the Destiny, Overwatch, World of Warcraft, and Candy Crush franchises, substantially all gameplay and functionality are obtained through our continuous hosting of the game content for the player.
Similar to our software products with online functionality, these arrangements may include other products and services, which often results in the recognition of additional performance obligations.
Revenues related to online hosted software arrangements are generally recognized ratably over the estimated service period.
Subscription revenue arrangements are mostly derived from World of Warcraft, which is playable through Blizzard’s servers and is generally sold on a subscription-only basis.
Revenues associated with the sales of subscriptions are deferred until the subscription service is activated by the consumer and are then recognized ratably over the subscription period as the performance obligations are satisfied.
Revenues attributable to the purchase of World of Warcraft software by our customers, including expansion packs, are classified as “Product sales,” whereas revenues attributable to subscriptions and other in-game revenues are classified as “Subscription, licensing, and other revenues.”
Other revenues primarily include revenues from downloadable content (e.g., multi-player content packs), microtransactions, and licensing of intellectual property other than software to third-parties.
Microtransaction revenues are derived from the sale of virtual currencies and goods to our players to enhance their gameplay experience.
Proceeds from these sales of virtual currencies and goods are initially recorded in deferred revenue.
Proceeds from the sales of virtual currencies are recognized as revenues when a player uses the virtual goods purchased with a virtual currency.
Proceeds from the sales of virtual goods directly are similarly recognized as revenues when a player uses the virtual goods.
We categorize our virtual goods as either “consumable” or “durable”.
Consumable virtual goods represent goods that can be consumed by a specific player action; accordingly, we recognize revenues from the sale of consumable virtual goods as the goods are consumed and our performance obligation is satisfied.
Durable virtual goods represent goods that are accessible to the player over an extended period of time; accordingly, we recognize revenues from the sale of durable virtual goods ratably over the period of time the goods are available to the player and our performance obligation is satisfied, which is generally the estimated service period.
Fixed fee payments from customers for the license of our brand or franchise are generally recognized over the license term.
Fixed fee payments from customers for the license of our media content are generally recognized when control has transferred to the customer, which may be upfront or over time.
Our contracts with customers often include promises to transfer multiple products and services.
Determining whether products and services are considered distinct performance obligations that should be accounted for separately versus together may require significant judgment.
Significant judgment is also required to determine the standalone selling price for each distinct performance obligation and to determine whether there is a discount that needs to be allocated based on the relative standalone selling price of the various products and services.
We consider a variety of data points when determining the estimated service period for players of our games, including the weighted average number of days between players’ first and last days played online, the average total hours played, the average number of days in which player activity stabilizes, and the weighted-average number of days between players’ first purchase date and last date played online.
We also consider known online trends, the service periods of our previously released games, and, to the extent publicly available, the service periods of our competitors’ games that are similar in nature to ours.
We believe this provides a reasonable depiction of the transfer of services to our customers, as it is the best representation of the time period during which our customers play our games.
Determining the estimated service period is subjective and requires management’s judgment.
The estimated service periods for players of our current games are generally less than 12 months.
· which party has discretion in establishing the price for the specified good or service.
Based on our evaluation of the above indicators, we report revenues on a gross basis for sales arrangements via the Apple App Store and the Google Play Store, and we report revenues on a net basis (i.e., net of fees retained by the digital storefront) for sales arrangements via Microsoft’s Xbox Games Store and Sony’s PSN.
Refer to Note 9 for further information, including changes in deferred revenue during the period.
We apply the practical expedient to expense costs, as incurred, to obtain a contract with a customer when the amortization period would have been one year or less for certain similar contracts in which commissions are paid to internal personnel or third parties.
We believe application of the practical expedient has a limited effect on the amount and timing of cost recognition.
Total capitalized costs to obtain a contract were immaterial as of September 30, 2018.
We benchmark units to be shipped to our customers using historical and industry data.
As noted in Note 2 above, we adopted the new revenue accounting standard effective January 1, 2018, utilizing the modified retrospective method.
Additionally, we elected to apply the new revenue accounting standard only to contracts not completed as of the adoption date.
· The accounting for certain of our software licensing arrangements.
While the impact of the new revenue accounting standard may differ on a contract-by-contract basis (as the actual revenue recognition treatment required under the standard will depend on contract-specific terms), the new revenue accounting standard generally results in earlier revenue recognition for these arrangements.
Adoption of the new revenue accounting standard had no impact to net cash from or used in operating, investing, or financing activities in our condensed consolidated statement of cash flows.
In January 2016, the FASB issued new guidance related to the recognition and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities.
The new standard, among other things, generally requires companies to measure investments in other entities, except those accounted for under the equity method, at fair value and to recognize any changes in fair value in net income.
The new standard also simplifies the impairment assessment of equity investments without readily determinable fair values.
The new standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, and the guidance should be applied by means of a cumulative-effect adjustment to the balance sheet as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption.
The guidance related to equity investments without readily determinable fair values (including disclosure requirements) is applied prospectively to equity investments that exist as of the date of adoption.
We adopted the new standard during the first quarter of 2018 and it did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
In November 2016, the FASB issued new guidance related to the classification of restricted cash in the statement of cash flows.
The new standard requires that a statement of cash flows explain any change during the period in total cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash.
Therefore, restricted cash will be included with “Cash and cash equivalents” when reconciling the beginning-of-period and end-of-period total amounts shown on the statement of cash flows.
The new standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, and should be applied retrospectively.
We adopted the new standard during the first quarter of 2018 and applied the standard retrospectively for all periods presented.
The application of this new standard did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated statements of cash flows for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017.
In our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2018, there will be a significant impact to the consolidated statements of cash flows for 2016, as this period includes, as an investing activity, the $3.6 billion movement in restricted cash resulting from the transfer of cash into escrow at December 31, 2015 to facilitate the acquisition of King, and the subsequent release of that cash in 2016 to complete the acquisition.
Under this new standard, the restricted cash balance will be included in the beginning and ending total cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash balances and, hence, will not be included as an investing activity in the statement of cash flows.
In August 2017, the FASB issued new guidance related to the accounting for derivatives and hedging.
We adopted the standard during the first quarter of 2018.
The adoption of the standard did not have a material impact to our condensed consolidated financial statements.
The new standard will replace all current U.S. GAAP guidance on this topic.
The new standard, among other things, requires a lessee to classify a lease as either an operating or financing lease, and to recognize a lease liability and a right-of-use asset for its leases.
Classification will be based on criteria that are largely similar to those applied in current lease accounting.
The lease liability will be equal to the present value of lease payments.
The asset will be based on the lease liability, subject to adjustment for initial direct costs, lease incentives received, and any prepaid lease payments.
Operating leases will result in a straight-line expense pattern, while finance leases will result in a front-loaded expense pattern.
The standard is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2018.
In July 2018, the FASB issued guidance to provide for an optional adoption method that allows companies to use the effective date of the new lease standard as the initial date of application on transition, and therefore does not require prior periods to be restated.
As part of our evaluation process, we have established a project implementation team that is evaluating our lease portfolio and system solutions, as well as identifying required process and policy changes, which include consideration of internal controls.
We have made progress in gathering the necessary data elements for our lease population, have selected a system provider, and system configuration and implementation is underway.
We do not plan to early adopt this new standard but do expect to elect and apply the available transition practical expedients, including the optional adoption method discussed above.
In January 2017, the FASB issued new guidance that eliminates Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test.
Instead, if an entity forgoes a Step 0 test, an entity will be required to perform its annual or interim goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit, as determined in Step 1 from the goodwill impairment test, with its carrying amount and recognize an impairment charge, if any, for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value, not to exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to the reporting unit.
In August 2018, the FASB issued new guidance related to a customer’s accounting for implementation costs incurred in a cloud computing arrangement (i.e.
The new guidance requires customers to capitalize implementation costs for these arrangements by applying the same criteria that is utilized for existing internal-use software guidance.
The capitalized costs are required to be amortized over the associated term of the arrangement, generally on a straight-line basis, with amortization of these costs presented in the same financial statement line item as other costs associated with the arrangement.
The new standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, and can be applied retrospectively or prospectively.
At September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, inventory reserves were $23 million and $36 million, respectively.
As of both September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, capitalized intellectual property licenses were not material.
Amortization expense of our intangible assets was $84 million and $280 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively.
Amortization expense of our intangible assets was $188 million and $573 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, respectively.
· Level 3—Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities, including certain pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies, and similar techniques that use significant unobservable inputs.
At September 30, 2018, our Cash Flow Hedges have remaining maturities of 15 months or less.
Additionally, $3 million of net realized but unrecognized gains are recorded within “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)” at September 30, 2018 for Cash Flow Hedges that had settled but were deferred and will be amortized into earnings, along with the associated hedged revenues.
Such amounts will be reclassified into earnings within the next 12 months.
For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, pre-tax net gains associated with these forward contracts were recorded in “General and administrative expenses” and were not material.
We measure the fair value of certain assets on a non-recurring basis, generally annually or when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable.
For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, there were no impairment charges related to assets that are measured on a non-recurring basis.
We record deferred revenues when cash payments are received or due in advance of the fulfillment of our associated performance obligations.
The opening balance of deferred revenues as of January 1, 2018 and the ending balance as of September 30, 2018 were $1.8 billion and $1.0 billion, respectively, including our current and non-current balances.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2018, the additions to our deferred revenues balance were primarily due to cash payments received or due in advance of satisfying our performance obligations, while the reductions to our deferred revenues balance were primarily due to the recognition of revenues upon fulfillment of our performance obligations, both of which were in the ordinary course of business.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, $1.6 billion of revenues were recognized that were included in the deferred revenues balance at the beginning of the period.
This balance does not include an estimate for variable consideration arising from sales-based royalty license revenue in excess of the contractual minimum guarantee.
At December 31, 2017, we had outstanding term loans “A” of approximately $990 million (the “2017 TLA”) and $250 million available under a revolving credit facility pursuant to a credit agreement entered into on October 11, 2013 (as amended thereafter and from time to time, the “Credit Agreement”).
Borrowings under the New Revolver will bear interest, at the Company’s option, at either (1) a base rate equal to the highest of (i) the federal funds rate, plus 0.5%, (ii) the prime commercial lending rate of Bank of America, N.A.
LIBOR will be subject to a floor of 0% and base rate will be subject to an effective floor of 1.00%.
The applicable interest margin for borrowings under the New Revolver will range from 0.875% to 1.375% for LIBOR borrowings and from 0% to 0.375% for base rate borrowings and will be determined by reference to a pricing grid based on the Company’s credit ratings.
Refer to Note 11 contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 for further details regarding the Credit Agreement, its key terms, and previous amendments made to it.
· $750 million of 6.125% unsecured senior notes due September 2023 that we issued on September 19, 2013 (the “2023 Notes”), in a private offering made in accordance with Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”);
· $650 million of 2.3% unsecured senior notes due September 2021 (the “2021 Notes”) and $850 million of 3.4% unsecured senior notes due September 2026 (the “2026 Notes”) that we initially issued on September 19, 2016, in a private offering made in accordance with Rule 144A and Regulation S under the Securities Act, and subsequently exchanged for publicly registered notes in June 2017; and
· $400 million of 2.6% unsecured senior notes due June 2022 (the “2022 Notes”), $400 million of 3.4% unsecured senior notes due June 2027 (the “2027 Notes”), and $400 million of 4.5% unsecured senior notes due June 2047 (the “2047 Notes”, and together with the 2021 Notes, the 2022 Notes, the 2023 Notes, the 2026 Notes, and the 2027 Notes, the “Notes”), that we issued on May 26, 2017, in a public underwritten offering.
On July 17, 2018, we issued an irrevocable notice of redemption to the holders of all of our outstanding 2023 Notes.
Accordingly, on August 16, 2018, using available cash on hand, we redeemed the 2023 Notes in full at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the 2023 Notes plus a “make-whole” premium calculated as set forth in the indenture governing the 2023 Notes and accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date.
The redemption of the 2023 Notes resulted in a “Loss on extinguishment of debt” recorded in the condensed consolidated statement of operations of $33 million, comprised of premium payments of $25 million and a write-off of unamortized discount and deferred financing costs of $8 million.
All other Notes referred to above remained outstanding as of September 30, 2018.
The Notes are general senior obligations of the Company and rank pari passu in right of payment to all of the Company’s existing and future senior indebtedness, including the New Revolver described above.
The Notes are not secured and are effectively junior to any of the Company’s existing and future indebtedness that is secured to the extent of the value of the collateral securing such indebtedness.
We were in compliance with the terms of the Notes as of September 30, 2018.
Refer to Note 11 contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 for further details regarding key terms under our indentures that govern the Notes.
Fees and discounts associated with the issuance of our debt instruments are recorded as debt discount, which reduces their respective carrying values, and are amortized over their respective terms.
For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, interest expense was $32 million and $113 million, respectively, and amortization of the debt discount and deferred financing costs were $1 million and $5 million, respectively.
For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, interest expense was $39 million and $110 million, respectively, and amortization of the debt discount and deferred financing costs were $2 million and $10 million, respectively.
On February 1, 2018, our Board of Directors authorized repayment of up to $1.8 billion of the company’s outstanding debt during 2018.
As of September 30, 2018, we had utilized this entire authorization to repay our 2017 TLA and redeem our 2023 Notes, as described above.
Using Level 2 inputs (i.e., observable market prices in less-than-active markets) at September 30, 2018, the carrying values of the 2021 Notes and the 2022 Notes approximated their fair values, as the interest rates were similar to the current rates at which we could borrow funds over the selected interest periods.
At September 30, 2018, based on Level 2 inputs, the fair values of the 2026 Notes, the 2027 Notes, and the 2047 Notes were $809 million, $379 million, and $380 million, respectively.
Using Level 2 inputs at December 31, 2017, with the exception of the 2023 Notes and the 2047 Notes, the carrying values of our debt instruments approximated their fair values.
At December 31, 2017, based on Level 2 inputs, the fair values of the 2023 Notes and the 2047 Notes were $795 million and $421 million, respectively.
Income taxes were not previously provided for foreign currency translation items, as these were considered indefinite investments in non-U.S. subsidiaries.
Tax Reform Act”), we re-evaluated our indefinite reinvestment assertions and no longer consider these items to be indefinite investments.
The corresponding tax impact for this change in assertion was not material.
Our operating segments are also consistent with our internal organizational structure, the way we assess operating performance and allocate resources, and the availability of separate financial information.
We do not aggregate operating segments.
The Company’s net revenues in the U.S. were 46% and 43% of consolidated net revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The Company’s net revenues in the U.K. were 13% and 12% of consolidated net revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
No other country’s net revenues exceeded 10% of consolidated net revenues for either the three months ended September 30, 2018 or 2017.
The Company’s net revenues in the U.S. were 47% and 46% of consolidated net revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The Company’s net revenues in the U.K. were 11% and 10% of consolidated net revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
No other country’s net revenues exceeded 10% of consolidated net revenues for either the nine months ended September 30, 2018 or 2017.
On June 27, 2018, the Company entered into a closing agreement with the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) to resolve certain intercompany transfer pricing arrangements for tax periods starting in 2009 (the “Closing Agreement”).
The primary adjustments related to the Closing Agreement that were recognized in the second quarter of 2018 were a tax expense of $70 million and a reduction in unrecognized tax benefits of $437 million.
The Closing Agreement results in federal and state cash tax payments totaling approximately $345 million, of which we made federal tax payments of $334 million in October 2018.
On December 22, 2017, the U.S. Tax Reform Act was enacted.
On December 22, 2017, the SEC staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
118 (“SAB 118”), which provides guidance on how to account for the effects of the U.S. Tax Reform Act under ASC 740.
SAB 118 enables companies to record a provisional amount for the effects of the U.S. Tax Reform Act based on a reasonable estimate, subject to adjustment during a measurement period of up to one year, until accounting is complete.
In addition, as of December 31.
During the three months ended June 30, 2018, the Company obtained additional information, including adjustments related to the Closing Agreement, and the evaluation of the impact of changing our indefinite reinvestment assertion, which affected the provisional amount initially recorded for the U.S. Tax Reform Act in the fourth quarter of 2017.
In conjunction with the filing of our 2017 federal tax return, during the three months ended September 30, 2018, the Company prepared and analyzed additional information, which affected the provisional amounts initially recorded for the U.S. Tax Reform Act in the fourth quarter of 2017.
The income tax benefit of $48 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018, reflects an effective tax rate of (23)%, which is lower than the effective tax rate of 15% for the three months ended September 30, 2017.
This decrease was partially offset by lower excess tax benefits from share-based payments.
The Company also has several state and non-U.S. audits pending, including the French audit discussed below.
In addition, as part of purchase price accounting for our 2016 acquisition of King, the Company assumed $74 million of uncertain tax positions primarily related to pre-acquisition transfer pricing matters.
We disagree with the STA’s proposal and, if they proceed with issuing a formal tax assessment, intend to vigorously contest it.
We would plan to pursue all remedies available to us to successfully resolve the matter, including administrative remedies with the STA, multilateral procedures with other relevant taxing jurisdictions, and, if necessary, judicial remedies.
The final resolution of the Company’s global tax disputes is uncertain.
The shares underlying these equity awards are included in the weighted-average dilutive common shares only if the performance measures are met as of the end of the reporting period.
Approximately 6 million shares are not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share for both the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, as their underlying performance measures had not yet been met.
Approximately 9 million and 8 million shares are not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, respectively, as their underlying performance measures had not yet been met.
Potential common shares are not included in the denominator of the diluted earnings per common share calculation when the inclusion of such shares would be anti-dilutive.
Therefore, approximately 1 million and 2 million options to purchase shares of common stock were not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per common share for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, and 1 million options to purchase shares of common stock were not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per common share for both the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, as the effect of their inclusion would be anti-dilutive.
On February 2, 2017, our Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program under which we are authorized to repurchase up to $1 billion of our common stock during the two-year period from February 13, 2017 through February 12, 2019.
As of September 30, 2018, we have not repurchased any shares under this program.
On February 1, 2018, our Board of Directors approved a cash dividend of $0.34 per common share.
On May 9, 2018, we made an aggregate cash dividend payment of $259 million to shareholders of record at the close of business on March 30, 2018.
On February 2, 2017, our Board of Directors approved a cash dividend of $0.30 per common share.
On May 10, 2017, we made an aggregate cash dividend payment of $226 million to shareholders of record at the close of business on March 30, 2017.
Item 1A.
The exhibits listed on the accompanying Exhibit Index are hereby incorporated by reference into this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
