We develop and distribute content and services on video game consoles, personal computers (“PC”s), and mobile devices.
The terms “Activision Blizzard,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” and “our” are used to refer collectively to Activision Blizzard, Inc. and its subsidiaries.
In connection with the 2008 business combination by and among the Company (then known as Activision, Inc.), Vivendi S.A, and Vivendi Games, Inc., then an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Vivendi S.A., we were renamed Activision Blizzard, Inc.
Activision primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including full-game and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Activision products.
In 2010, Activision entered into an exclusive relationship with Bungie, Inc. (“Bungie”) to publish games in the Destiny franchise.
Effective December 31, 2018, Activision and Bungie mutually agreed to terminate their publishing relationship related to the Destiny franchise.
As part of this termination, Activision agreed to transfer its publishing rights for the Destiny franchise to Bungie in exchange for cash and Bungie’s assumption of on-going customer obligations of Activision.
Activision no longer has any material rights or obligations related to the Destiny franchise.
Blizzard primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including subscriptions, full-game, and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Blizzard products.
King’s games are free to play; however, players can acquire in-game items, either with virtual currency or real currency, and we continue to focus on in-game advertising as a growing source of additional revenue.
•the Activision Blizzard Distribution (“Distribution”) business, which consists of operations in Europe that provide warehousing, logistics, and sales distribution services to third-party publishers of interactive entertainment software, our own publishing operations, and manufacturers of interactive entertainment hardware.
Since certain of our games are hosted online or include significant online functionality that represents a separate performance obligation, we defer the transaction price allocable to the online functionality from the sale of these games and recognize the attributable revenues over the relevant estimated service periods, which are generally less than a year.
The following operating metrics are key performance indicators that we use to evaluate our business.
We monitor net bookings as a key operating metric in evaluating the performance of our business.
Net bookings is the net amount of products and services sold digitally or sold-in physically in the period, and includes license fees, merchandise, and publisher incentives, among others.
We monitor monthly active users (“MAUs”) as a key measure of the overall size of our user base.
MAUs are the number of individuals who accessed a particular game in a given month.
We calculate average MAUs in a period by adding the total number of MAUs in each of the months in a given period and dividing that total by the number of months in the period.
An individual who accesses two of our games would be counted as two users.
For Blizzard, an individual who accesses the same game on two platforms or devices in the relevant period would generally be counted as a single user.
Average MAUs decreased by 11 million, or 3%, for the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2018 primarily driven by a decrease in average MAUs for Activision.
The decrease in Activision’s average MAUs is primarily due to (1) the Destiny franchise, as Destiny MAUs are no longer included in our average MAU metric since we sold our publishing rights in the Destiny franchise to Bungie in December 2018, and (2) decreases in the Call of Duty franchise.
The decrease is partially offset by an increase in average MAUs for King, driven by the Candy Crush franchise.
King MAUs were also negatively impacted by a King network outage in the second quarter of 2018, resulting from changes made by a third-party partner which inadvertently impacted some users’ ability to play and spend money in King games.
Our business participates in the global interactive entertainment industry.
Games have become an increasingly popular form of entertainment, and we estimate the total industry has grown, on average, 18% annually from 2015 to 2018.
The industry continues to benefit from additional players entering the market as interactive entertainment becomes more commonplace across age groups and as more developing regions gain access to this form of entertainment.
The wide adoption of smart phones globally and the free-to-play business model on those platforms has increased the total addressable audience for gaming significantly by introducing gaming to new age groups and new regions and allowing gaming to occur more widely outside the home.
Mobile gaming is estimated to be larger than console and PC gaming, and continues to grow at a significant rate.
King is a leading developer of mobile and free-to-play games and our other business units have mobile efforts underway that present the opportunity for us to expand the reach of, and drive additional player investment from, our franchises.
For example, as part of our efforts to take advantage of esports opportunities, during 2017, we completed the sale of 12 teams for the Overwatch League, which concluded its inaugural season in July 2018.
During 2018, we also completed the sale of eight additional teams for the Overwatch League, which are competing in the league’s second season that began in February 2019.
Additionally, as recently announced, we have sold the first five teams for our professional Call of Duty city-based league.
The concentration of retail revenues among key titles has continued as a trend in the overall interactive entertainment industry.
According to The NPD Group, the top 10 titles accounted for 38% of the retail sales in the U.S. interactive entertainment industry in 2018.
For example, the Call of Duty, Candy Crush, and World of Warcraft franchises, collectively, accounted for 58% of our consolidated net revenues—and a significantly higher percentage of our operating income—for 2018.
For example, in 2014, we released Hearthstone, and in 2016, we released Overwatch.
Additionally, to diversify our portfolio of key franchises and increase our presence on the mobile platform, in 2016, we acquired King.
Increased consumer online connectivity has allowed us to offer players new investment opportunities and to shift our business further towards a more consistently recurring and year-round model.
This incremental content not only provides additional high-margin revenues, it can also increase player engagement.
Also, mobile games, and free-to-play games more broadly, are generally less seasonal than games developed primarily for the console or PC platforms.
Changes in foreign exchange rates had a negative impact of $66 million on our consolidated net revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the same period in the previous year.
The changes are primarily due to changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the euro and the British pound.
We do not aggregate operating segments.
•lower revenues from Call of Duty franchise catalog titles.
•lower revenues from Hearthstone.
King’s net revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2019, were roughly equal to net revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
•an increase in bad debt provisions.
The decrease in King’s operating income for the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018, was primarily due to higher sales and marketing costs driven by the Candy Crush franchise.
Changes in foreign exchange rates had a negative impact of $42 million on reportable segment net revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the same period in the previous year.
The changes are primarily due to changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the euro and the British pound.
•lower revenues recognized from Overwatch, primarily driven by lower in-game purchases.
•lower revenues recognized from Call of Duty franchise catalog titles.
Net revenues from mobile and ancillary for the three months ended March 31, 2019, were roughly equal to net revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
The decrease in product costs for the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018, was in line with the decrease in product sales.
The decrease in game operations and distribution costs for the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018, was primarily due to a decrease of $19 million in digital storefront fees (e.g.
fees retained by Apple and Google for our sales on their platforms) and payment processor fees.
The decrease in product development costs for the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018, was primarily driven by lower product development costs from the Destiny franchise, the publishing rights to which we sold to Bungie in December 2018, as previously disclosed.
The decrease was partially offset by an increase in bad debt provisions.
The decrease in general and administrative expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018, was primarily due to a $15 million decrease in personnel costs.
Refer to Note 14 of the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further discussion.
The decrease in interest and other expense (income), net, for the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018, was primarily due to an $18 million decrease in interest expense and amortization of deferred financing costs associated with our debt obligations due to our lower total debt outstanding as a result of our debt redemptions and repayment activities during 2018.
The effective tax rate of 21% for the three months ended March 31, 2019 is consistent with the U.S. statutory rate of 21%.
We believe our ability to generate cash flows from operating activities is one of our fundamental financial strengths.
Our primary sources of liquidity, which are available to us to fund cash outflows such as our anticipated dividend payments, share repurchases, and scheduled debt maturities, include our cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, and cash flows provided by operating activities.
These cash balances are generally available for use in the U.S., subject in some cases to certain restrictions.
Our cash provided from operating activities is somewhat impacted by seasonality.
Net cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2019, was $450 million, as compared to $529 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
The primary drivers of net cash flows associated with investing activities typically include capital expenditures, purchases and sales of investments, changes in restricted cash balances, and cash used for acquisitions.
Net cash used in investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2019, was $5 million, as compared to $51 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
The decrease was primarily due to cash flow activities associated with available-for-sale investments, for which, in the three months ended March 31, 2019, there were $13 million of cash proceeds from the maturities of available-for-sale investments as compared to purchases of available-for-sale investments of $20 million in the prior-year period.
Additionally, we had lower capital expenditures of $18 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to $31 million in the prior-year period.
The primary drivers of net cash flows associated with financing activities typically include the proceeds from, and repayments of, our long-term debt and transactions involving our common stock, including the issuance of shares of common stock to employees upon the exercise of stock options, as well as the payment of dividends.
Net cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2019, was $24 million, as compared to $8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
The increase was due to lower tax payments made for net share settlements on restricted stock units of $6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to $39 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018, partially offset by lower proceeds from stock option exercises of $30 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to $47 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
Changes in foreign exchange rates had a positive impact of $2 million on our cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash for the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to a positive impact of $18 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
The change was primarily due to changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the euro and the British pound.
As of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, our total outstanding debt was $2.7 billion, bearing interest at a weighted average rate of 3.18%.
On February 12, 2019, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.37 per common share.
For the year ending December 31, 2019, we anticipate total capital expenditures of approximately $135 million, primarily for leasehold improvements, computer hardware, and software purchases.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019, capital expenditures were $18 million.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019, there were no significant changes to the above critical accounting policies and estimates.
Below are recently issued accounting pronouncements that were most significant to our accounting policy activities.
For a detailed discussion of all relevant recently issued accounting pronouncements, see Note 3 of the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
As noted in Note 2 of the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, we adopted the new lease accounting standard effective January 1, 2019.
We elected to apply an optional adoption method, which uses the effective date as the initial date of application on transition with no retrospective adjustments to prior periods.
For additional discussion regarding the impact of our adoption of the new lease accounting standard to our condensed consolidated balance sheet, see Note 3 of the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
