ITEM 2.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, that have been made pursuant to and in reliance on the provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements include, among others, statements concerning:
In some cases, words such as “would,” “could,” “may,” “should,” “predict,” “potential,” “targets,” “continue,” “anticipate,” “expect,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “seek,” “estimate,” “project,” “forecast,” “will,” the negative of these terms or other variations of such terms and similar expressions relating to the future identify forward-looking statements.
All forward-looking statements are based on our current outlook, expectations, estimates, projections, beliefs and plans or objectives about our business and our industry.
These statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Actual events or results could differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any such forward-looking statements.
Risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially include those set forth throughout this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and, in particular, in the section entitled “Item 1A.
Risk Factors.” Except as required by law, we disclaim any duty to, and undertake no obligation to, update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information relating to existing conditions, future events or otherwise or to release publicly the results of any future revisions we may make to forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements, which speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Readers should carefully review future reports and documents that we file from time to time with the SEC, such as our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and any Current Reports on Form 8-K.
 Table of Contents
Overview
We are a leading semiconductor company that designs, develops and markets high-performance power solutions.
Incorporated in 1997, MPS’s core strengths include deep system-level and applications knowledge, strong analog design expertise and an innovative proprietary process technology.
These combined strengths enable MPS to deliver highly integrated monolithic products that offer energy-efficient, cost-effective, easy-to-use solutions for systems found in computing and storage, automotive, industrial, communications and consumer applications.
Our mission is to reduce total energy consumption in our customers' systems with green, practical and compact solutions.
We believe that we differentiate ourselves by offering solutions that are more highly integrated, smaller in size, more energy-efficient, more accurate with respect to performance specifications and, consequently, more cost-effective than many competing solutions.
We plan to continue to introduce new products within our existing product families, as well as in new innovative product categories.
We operate in the cyclical semiconductor industry where there is seasonal demand for certain products.
We are not immune from current and future industry downturns, but we have targeted product and market areas that we believe have the ability to offer above average industry performance over the long term.
We work with third parties to manufacture and assemble our integrated circuits (“ICs”).
This has enabled us to limit our capital expenditures and fixed costs, while focusing our engineering and design resources on our core strengths.
Following the introduction of a product, our sales cycle generally takes a number of quarters after we receive an initial customer order for a new product to ramp up.
Typical lead time for orders is fewer than 90 days.
These factors, combined with the fact that orders in the semiconductor industry can typically be cancelled or rescheduled without significant penalty to the customer, make the forecasting of our orders and revenue difficult.
We derive most of our revenue from sales through distribution arrangements and direct sales to customers in Asia, where our products are incorporated into end-user products.
Our revenue from direct or indirect sales to customers in Asia was 90% and 89% for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and 89% and 88% for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
We derive a majority of our revenue from the sales of our DC to DC converter products which serve the computing and storage, automotive, industrial, communications and consumer markets.
We believe our ability to achieve revenue growth will depend, in part, on our ability to develop new products, enter new market segments, gain market share, manage litigation risk, diversify our customer base and continue to secure manufacturing capacity.
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
There have been no significant changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates used in the preparation of our financial statements during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, as compared to those disclosed in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
Results of Operations
 Table of Contents
Revenue
Revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2019 was $168.8 million, an increase of $8.8 million, or 5.5%, from $160.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018.
This increase was driven by higher sales in the automotive, industrial, and computing and storage markets.
Overall unit shipments increased by 6% due to higher market demand, and average sales prices were essentially flat compared to the same period in 2018.
For the three months ended September 30, 2019, revenue from the automotive market increased $4.6 million, or 23.5%, from the same period in 2018.
This increase was primarily driven by higher sales of products for infotainment applications.
Revenue from the industrial market increased $4.0 million, or 16.1%, from the same period in 2018.
This increase was primarily driven by higher sales in power source and security products.
Revenue from the computing and storage market increased $5.1 million, or 10.8%, from the same period in 2018.
This increase was primarily driven by strength in the high-performance notebook market, which was partially offset by lower demand in the solid-state drive storage market.
Revenue from the communications market decreased $0.4 million, or 2.0%, from the same period in 2018.
This decrease was primarily driven by lower demand for routers and wireless applications, partially offset by higher demand in infrastructure sales including 5G network.
Revenue from the consumer market decreased $4.6 million, or 9.4%, from the same period in 2018.
This decrease was primarily due to a decrease in demand for high volume consumer-related products.
This decrease was partially offset by higher demand for home appliance products.
Revenue for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 was $461.2 million, an increase of $32.3 million, or 7.5%, from $428.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
This increase was driven by higher sales in all of our end markets except for the consumer market.
Overall unit shipments increased by 12% due to higher market demand, and average sales prices decreased by approximately 2% from the same period in 2018.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2019, revenue from the communications market increased $12.5 million, or 24.8%, from the same period in 2018.
This increase was primarily driven by higher demand in infrastructure sales including 5G network.
Revenue from the industrial market increased $11.1 million, or 18.0%, from the same period in 2018.
This increase was primarily driven by higher sales in power source and security products.
Revenue from the computing and storage market increased $18.0 million, or 15.6%, from the same period in 2018.
This increase was primarily driven by strength in the high-performance notebook market, which was partially offset by lower demand in the solid-state drive storage market.
Revenue from the automotive market increased $8.3 million, or 14.4%, from the same period in 2018.
This increase was primarily driven by higher sales of products for infotainment applications.
Revenue from the consumer market decreased $17.6 million, or 12.3%, from the same period in 2018.
This decrease was primarily due to a decrease in demand for high volume consumer-related products, as well as lower sales from specialty lighting, chargers and gaming products.
This decrease was partially offset by higher demand for mobile phone and home appliance products.
 Table of Contents
Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin
 Cost of revenue primarily consists of costs incurred to manufacture, assemble and test our products, as well as warranty costs, inventory-related and other overhead costs, and stock-based compensation expenses.
Cost of revenue was $75.7 million, or 44.8% of revenue, for the three months ended September 30, 2019, and $71.0 million, or 44.4% of revenue, for the three months ended September 30, 2018.
The $4.7 million increase in cost of revenue was primarily due to a 6% increase in overall unit shipments and a 6% increase in the average direct cost of units shipped.
The increase in cost of revenue was partially offset by a decrease in inventory write-downs and warranty expenses.
Gross margin was 55.2% for the three months ended September 30, 2019, compared with 55.6% for the three months ended September 30, 2018.
The decrease in gross margin was primarily due to increased sales of lower margin products, which was partially offset by lower inventory write-downs and warranty expenses as a percentage of revenue.
Cost of revenue was $206.8 million, or 44.8% of revenue, for the nine months ended September 30, 2019, and $190.8 million, or 44.5% of revenue, for the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
The $16.0 million increase in cost of revenue was primarily due to a 12% increase in overall unit shipments and a 5% increase in the average direct cost of units shipped.
The increase in cost of revenue was partially offset by a decrease in inventory write-downs and warranty expenses.
Gross margin was 55.2% for the nine months ended September 30, 2019, compared with 55.5% for the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
The decrease in gross margin was primarily due to increased sales of lower margin products, which was partially offset by lower inventory write-downs and warranty expenses as a percentage of revenue.
Research and Development
 Table of Contents
Selling, General and Administrative
Litigation Expense
Litigation expense was $0.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2019, compared with $0.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018.
Litigation expense was $1.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019, compared with $1.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
Litigation expense for these periods was primarily attributable to an ongoing lawsuit in which we are the plaintiff.
Interest and Other Income, Net
Interest and other income, net, was $2.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2019, compared with $2.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018.
The decrease was primarily due to a decrease of $0.6 million in income related to changes in the value of the deferred compensation plan investments and a decrease of $0.5 million in foreign currency exchange gains.
These unfavorable changes were partially offset by a $0.7 million gain from the sale of a parcel of land, net of certain capitalized costs and selling expenses, and an increase of $0.3 million in interest income as a result of higher investment balances and yields.
Interest and other income, net, was $7.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019, compared with $5.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
The increase was primarily due to an increase of $1.7 million in income related to changes in the value of the deferred compensation plan investments, a $0.7 million gain from the sale of a parcel of land, net of certain capitalized costs and selling expenses, and an increase of $0.6 million in interest income as a result of higher investment balances and yields.
These favorable changes were partially offset by a decrease of $0.9 million in foreign currency exchange gains.
Income Tax Expense
The income tax provision for interim periods is generally determined using an estimate of our annual effective tax rate and adjusted for discrete items, if any, in the relevant period.
Each quarter the estimate of the annual effective tax rate is updated, and if our estimated tax rate changes, a cumulative adjustment is made.
The income tax expense for the three months ended September 30, 2019 was $2.8 million, or 8.6% of pre-tax income.
The income tax expense for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 was $3.3 million, or 4.1% of pre-tax income.
The effective tax rates differed from the federal statutory rate primarily due to foreign income from our subsidiaries in Bermuda and China being taxed at lower statutory tax rates, and the benefit obtained from certain discrete items recognized in the periods, including excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation.
The decrease in the effective tax rates relative to the federal statutory rate was partially offset by the inclusion of the GILTI tax.
The income tax provision for the three months ended September 30, 2018 was $4.6 million, or 12.8% of pre-tax income.
The income tax provision for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was $8.2 million, or 9.5% of pre-tax income.
The effective tax rates differed from the federal statutory rate primarily due to foreign income from our subsidiaries in Bermuda and China being taxed at lower statutory tax rates, and the benefit obtained from certain discrete items recognized in the periods, including excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation.
The decrease in the effective tax rates relative to the federal statutory rate was partially offset by the inclusion of the GILTI tax.
 Table of Contents
For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, our effective tax rates included the estimated impact of $13.0 million and $38.5 million, respectively, related to the GILTI provisions that were included as additional subpart F income, which was accounted for as a period cost.
For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, our effective tax rates included the estimated impact of $18.4 million and $46.2 million, respectively, related to the GILTI provisions.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
As of September 30, 2019, we had cash and cash equivalents of $205.2 million and short-term investments of $213.5 million, compared with cash and cash equivalents of $172.7 million and short-term investments of $204.6 million as of December 31, 2018.
As of September 30, 2019, $141.5 million of cash and cash equivalents and $124.0 million of short-term investments were held by our international subsidiaries.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2019, we repatriated $75 million of cash from our Bermuda subsidiary to the U.S.
The proceeds were primarily used to fund real estate purchases and cash dividend payments.
We may repatriate additional cash from our Bermuda subsidiary to fund our expenditures in future periods.
We anticipate that earnings from other foreign subsidiaries will continue to be indefinitely reinvested.
The significant components of our working capital are cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, accounts receivable, inventories and other current assets, reduced by accounts payable, accrued compensation and related benefits, and other accrued liabilities.
As of September 30, 2019, we had working capital of $524.3 million, compared with working capital of $500.4 million as of December 31, 2018.
The $23.9 million increase in working capital was due to a $48.5 million increase in current assets, which was partially offset by a $24.6 million increase in current liabilities.
The increase in current assets was primarily due to an increase in cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and other current assets.
The increase in current liabilities was primarily due to an increase in accounts payable, accrued compensation and related benefits and other accrued liabilities.
Summary of Cash Flows
For the nine months ended September 30, 2019, net cash provided by operating activities was $155.3 million, primarily due to our net income adjusted for certain non-cash items, including depreciation and amortization and stock-based compensation, and a net increase of $10.6 million from the changes in our operating assets and liabilities.
The decrease in income tax liabilities was primarily due to income tax payments made for the year, including the annual deemed repatriation transition tax.
The increase in other accrued liabilities was primarily driven by an increase in employee contributions to the deferred compensation plan and an increase in operating lease liabilities.
For the nine month ended September 30, 2018, net cash provided by operating activities was $93.9 million, primarily due to our net income adjusted for certain non-cash items, including depreciation and amortization and stock-based compensation, and a net decrease of $41.9 million from the changes in our operating assets and liabilities.
The increase in accounts receivable was primarily driven by increased sales and the timing of shipments in the last month of the quarter.
The increase in inventories was primarily driven by an increase in strategic wafer and die inventories as well as an increase in finished goods to meet current demand and future growth.
The increase in accounts payable was primarily driven by increased inventory and capital asset purchases to meet future demand.
 Table of Contents
For the nine months ended September 30, 2019, net cash used in investing activities was $88.1 million, primarily due to purchases of property and equipment of $87.1 million, which included the purchase of a building and land in Kirkland, Washington for $52.3 million, net purchases of short-term investments of $7.6 million and net contributions to the deferred compensation plan of $1.8 million.
These cash outflows were partially offset by proceeds from sales of property and equipment of $9.3 million.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2018, net cash used in investing activities was $21.8 million, primarily due to purchases of property and equipment of $18.1 million, net purchases of short-term investments of $2.3 million, and net contributions to the deferred compensation plan of $1.4 million.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2019, net cash used in financing activities was $31.0 million, primarily reflecting $48.6 million used to pay dividends to our stockholders and dividend equivalents to our employees who hold RSUs, which was partially offset by $17.8 million of cash proceeds from the vesting of RSUs and the issuance of shares through our employee stock purchase plan.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2018, net cash used in financing activities was $21.7 million, primarily reflecting $34.4 million used to pay dividends to our stockholders and dividend equivalents to our employees who hold RSUs, which was partially offset by $12.7 million of cash proceeds from the vesting of RSUs and the issuance of shares through our employee stock purchase plan.
We anticipate that cash used for future dividends and dividend equivalent payments, as well as payments for the one-time deemed repatriation transition tax and other expenditures, will come from our domestic cash, cash generated from ongoing U.S. operations, and cash repatriated from our Bermuda subsidiary.
Earnings from other foreign subsidiaries will continue to be indefinitely reinvested.
Although cash requirements will fluctuate based on the timing and extent of many factors such as those discussed above, we believe that cash generated from operations, together with the liquidity provided by existing cash balances and short-term investments, will be sufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements for the next 12 months.
Contractual Obligations
Our outstanding purchase commitments primarily consist of wafer purchases, assembly and other manufacturing services, construction services and license arrangements.
As of September 30, 2019, the outstanding balance under our purchase commitments was $70.9 million, compared with $61.4 million as of December 31, 2018.
Under the 2017 Tax Act, we have a transition tax liability which represents a one-time, mandatory deemed repatriation tax imposed on previously deferred foreign earnings.
As permitted by the 2017 Tax Act, we elected to pay the tax liability in installments on an interest-free basis through 2025.
As of September 30, 2019, the outstanding liability was $20.7 million, compared with $22.1 million as of December 31, 2018.
Our long-term obligations include long-term liabilities reflected on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, which primarily consist of the deferred compensation plan liabilities and accrued dividend equivalents.
As of September 30, 2019, the outstanding obligations were $44.3 million, compared with $38.5 million as of December 31, 2018.
Our other contractual obligations have not changed significantly from those disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
 Table of Contents
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
As of September 30, 2019, we had no off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Item 303(a)(4) of the SEC’s Regulation S-K.
