ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 



This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, that have been made pursuant to and in reliance on the provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements include, among others, statements concerning:



      •   the above-average industry growth of product and market areas that we have targeted,    



      •   our plan to increase our revenue through the introduction of new products within our existing product families as well as in new product categories and families,    



      •   



our belief that we may incur significant legal expenses that vary with the level of activity in each of our current or future legal proceedings,    



      •   the effect that liquidity of our investments has on our capital resources,    



      •   the continuing application of our products in the consumer, computing and storage, industrial, automotive and communications markets,    



      •   estimates of our future liquidity requirements,    



      •   the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry,    



      •   protection of our proprietary technology,    



      •   business outlook for the remainder of 2018 and beyond,    



      •   the factors that we believe will impact our ability to achieve revenue growth,    



      •   the percentage of our total revenue from various end markets,    



      •   our ability to identify, acquire and integrate the companies, businesses and products that we acquire and achieve the anticipated benefits from such acquisitions,   



      •   the impact of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act enacted in December 2017 (the "2017 Tax Act") on our income tax provision and cash flows,    



      •   our intention and ability to pay future cash dividends, and    



      •   the factors that differentiate us from our competitors.    



In some cases, words such as “would,” “could,” “may,” “should,” “predict,” “potential,” “targets,” “continue,” “anticipate,” “expect,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “seek,” “estimate,” “project,” “forecast,” “will,” the negative of these terms or other variations of such terms and similar expressions relating to the future identify forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements are based on our current outlook, expectations, estimates, projections, beliefs and plans or objectives about our business and our industry. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual events or results could differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any such forward-looking statements. Risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially include those set forth throughout this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and, in particular, in the section entitled “Item 1A. Risk Factors.” Except as required by law, we disclaim any duty to, and undertake no obligation to, update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information relating to existing conditions, future events or otherwise or to release publicly the results of any future revisions we may make to forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements, which speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Readers should carefully review future reports and documents that we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and any Current Reports on Form 8-K.  





Table of Contents  



Overview 



We are a leading semiconductor company that designs, develops and markets high-performance power solutions. Founded in 1997, MPS’s core strengths include deep system-level and applications knowledge, strong analog design expertise and an innovative proprietary process technology. These combined strengths enable MPS to deliver highly integrated monolithic products that offer energy efficient, cost-effective, easy-to-use solutions for systems found in consumer, computing and storage, industrial, automotive and communications applications. Our mission is to reduce total energy consumption in our customers' systems with green, practical and compact solutions. We believe that we differentiate ourselves by offering solutions that are more highly integrated, smaller in size, more energy efficient, more accurate with respect to performance specifications and, consequently, more cost-effective than many competing solutions. We plan to continue to introduce new products within our existing product families, as well as in new innovative product categories. 



We operate in the cyclical semiconductor industry where there is seasonal demand for certain products. We are not immune from current and future industry downturns, but we have targeted product and market areas that we believe have the ability to offer above average industry performance over the long term. 



We work with third parties to manufacture and assemble our integrated circuits (“ICs”). This has enabled us to limit our capital expenditures and fixed costs, while focusing our engineering and design resources on our core strengths. 



Following the introduction of a product, our sales cycle generally takes a number of quarters after we receive an initial customer order for a new product to ramp up. Typical lead time for orders is fewer than 90 days. These factors, combined with the fact that orders in the semiconductor industry can typically be cancelled or rescheduled without significant penalty to the customer, make the forecasting of our orders and revenue difficult. 



We derive most of our revenue from sales through distribution arrangements and direct sales to customers in Asia, where our products are incorporated into end-user products. Our revenue from direct or indirect sales to customers in Asia was 89% for both the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, and 88% and 89% for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. We derive a majority of our revenue from the sales of our DC to DC converter products which serve the consumer, computing and storage, industrial, automotive and communications markets. We believe our ability to achieve revenue growth will depend, in part, on our ability to develop new products, enter new market segments, gain market share, manage litigation risk, diversify our customer base and continue to secure manufacturing capacity. 



Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 



Except for the changes related to revenue recognition discussed in Note 1 and Note 2 to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, there have been no other significant changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates used in the preparation of our financial statements during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, as compared to those disclosed in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017. 



Results of Operations 









Table of Contents  



Revenue 







Revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2018 was $160.0 million, an increase of $31.1 million, or 24.1%, from $128.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017. This increase was driven by higher sales in all of our end markets except for the consumer market. Overall unit shipments increased by 22% due to higher market demand, and average sales prices increased by 2% from the same period in 2017.  



Revenue from the computing and storage market for the three months ended September 30, 2018 increased $18.6 million, or 64.2%, from the same period in 2017. This increase was primarily driven by strength in the solid-state drive storage, cloud computing and high-performance notebook markets. Revenue from the automotive market increased $6.9 million, or 53.9%, from the same period in 2017. This increase was primarily driven by higher sales of products for infotainment, safety and connectivity applications. Revenue from the industrial market increased $8.5 million, or 52.1%, from the same period in 2017. This increase was primarily driven by higher sales in power source, security and meter products. Revenue from the communications market increased $3.8 million, or 24.6%, from the same period in 2017. This increase was primarily driven by higher demand in networking applications. Revenue from the consumer market decreased $6.8 million, or 12.4%, from the same period in 2017. This decrease was primarily due to softness in demand for high volume consumer related products, particularly those sold in the greater China region. This decrease was partially offset by higher demand for products related to home appliance, specialty lighting and internet-of-things applications. 



Revenue for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was $428.9 million, an increase of $87.4 million, or 25.6%, from $341.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017. This increase was driven by higher sales in all of our end markets. Overall unit shipments increased by 17% due to higher market demand, and average sales prices increased by 6% from the same period in 2017. 



Revenue from the computing and storage market for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 increased $41.5 million, or 56.0%, from the same period in 2017. This increase was primarily driven by strength in the solid-state drive storage, cloud computing and high-performance notebook markets. Revenue from the automotive market increased $19.8 million, or 52.1%, from the same period in 2017. This increase was primarily driven by higher sales of products for infotainment, safety and connectivity applications. Revenue from the industrial market increased $14.8 million, or 31.7%, from the same period in 2017. This increase was primarily driven by higher sales in power source, security and meter products. Revenue from the communications market increased $2.7 million, or 5.6%, from the same period in 2017. This increase was primarily driven by higher demand in networking applications. Revenue from the consumer market increased $8.6 million, or 6.4%, from the same period in 2017. This increase was primarily driven by higher demand for products related to home appliance, specialty lighting and internet-of-things applications, partially offset by softness in demand for high volume consumer related products, particularly those sold in the greater China region. 





Table of Contents  



Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin 



 Cost of revenue primarily consists of costs incurred to manufacture, assemble and test our products, as well as warranty costs, inventory-related and other overhead costs, and stock-based compensation expenses. In addition, cost of revenue includes amortization for acquisition-related intangible assets. 





Cost of revenue was $71.0 million, or 44.4% of revenue, for the three months ended September 30, 2018, and $58.1 million, or 45.0% of revenue, for the three months ended September 30, 2017. The $12.9 million increase in cost of revenue was primarily due to a 22% increase in overall unit shipments, partially offset by a 4% decrease in the average direct cost of units shipped. The increase in cost of revenue was also driven by a $3.7 million increase in inventory write-downs and a $1.0 million net increase in warranty expenses. 



Gross margin was 55.6% for the three months ended September 30, 2018, compared with 55.0% for the three months ended September 30, 2017. The increase in gross margin was primarily due to increased sales of higher margin products, lower labor and manufacturing overhead costs and lower amortization expense due to certain intangible assets being fully amortized, partially offset by higher inventory write-downs and net warranty expenses as a percentage of revenue. 



Cost of revenue was $190.8 million, or 44.5% of revenue, for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, and $154.4 million, or 45.2% of revenue, for the nine months ended September 30, 2017. The $36.4 million increase in cost of revenue was primarily due to a 17% increase in overall unit shipments, coupled with a 2% increase in the average direct cost of units shipped. The increase in cost of revenue was also driven by an $8.7 million increase in inventory write-downs. 



Gross margin was 55.5% for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared with 54.8% for the nine months ended September 30, 2017. The increase in gross margin was primarily due to increased sales of higher margin products, lower labor and manufacturing overhead costs and lower amortization expense due to certain intangible assets being fully amortized, partially offset by higher inventory write-downs as a percentage of revenue. 



Research and Development 













Table of Contents  



Selling, General and Administrative 











Litigation Expense 



Litigation expense was $0.3 million for both the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017. Litigation expense was $1.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared with $0.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017. The increase was primarily due to increased expenses on our ongoing lawsuits. 



Interest and Other Income, Net 



Interest and other income, net, was $2.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018, compared with $1.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017. The increase was primarily due to an increase of $0.9 million in foreign currency exchange gain, an increase of $0.2 million in interest income as a result of higher investment balances and yields, and a decrease of $0.2 million in amortization of premium on available-for-sale securities. 



Interest and other income, net, was $5.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared with $3.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017. The increase was primarily due to an increase of $1.4 million in foreign currency exchange gain, an increase of $0.7 million in interest income as a result of higher investment balances and yields, and a decrease of $0.4 million in amortization of premium on available-for-sale securities, which was partially offset by a decrease of $1.0 million in income related to changes in the value of the deferred compensation plan investments. 



Income Tax Provision  



As of September 30, 2018, we have not adjusted our provisional tax estimates related to the 2017 Tax Act that were recorded in the fourth quarter of 2017. These amounts remained as estimates and, as permitted by Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118, they will be refined through December 2018 based on our ongoing analysis of data and tax positions along with new guidance from regulators and interpretation of the law. 



The income tax provision for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 was $4.6 million, or 12.8% of pre-tax income, and $8.2 million, or 9.5% of pre-tax income, respectively. The effective tax rate differed from the federal statutory rate primarily because foreign income generated by our subsidiaries in Bermuda and China was taxed at lower rates, and because of certain stock-based compensation deductions. In addition, the effective tax rate was impacted by the inclusion of the global intangible low-taxed income ("GILTI") under the 2017 Tax Act. 



For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, our effective tax rate included the estimated impact of $18.4 million and $46.2 million, respectively, related to the GILTI provisions that was included as additional subpart F income, which was accounted for as a period cost. In addition, during the first quarter of 2018, we paid the 2018 installment of $1.9 million related to the deemed repatriation transition tax liability. As of September 30, 2018, $1.9 million of the transition tax liability was recorded in current accrued liabilities and $20.1 million was recorded in long-term income tax liabilities on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. 



The income tax provision for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 was $1.4 million, or 5.8% of pre-tax income, and $3.1 million, or 5.5% of pre-tax income, respectively. The effective tax rate differed from the federal statutory rate primarily because foreign income generated by our subsidiaries in Bermuda and China was taxed at lower rates. In addition, the effective tax rate was impacted by changes in the valuation allowance primarily related to stock-based compensation. 





Table of Contents  



Liquidity and Capital Resources 





As of September 30, 2018, we had cash and cash equivalents of $131.1 million and short-term investments of $216.8 million, compared with cash and cash equivalents of $82.8 million and short-term investments of $216.3 million as of December 31, 2017. As of September 30, 2018, $100.6 million of cash and cash equivalents and $108.0 million of short-term investments were held by our international subsidiaries. As a result of the enactment of the 2017 Tax Act, we currently plan to repatriate cash from our Bermuda subsidiary to fund our future expenditures in the U.S. Earnings from other foreign subsidiaries will continue to be indefinitely reinvested. 



The significant components of our working capital are cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, accounts receivable, inventories and other current assets, reduced by accounts payable, accrued compensation and related benefits, and other accrued liabilities. As of September 30, 2018, we had working capital of $471.9 million, compared with working capital of $383.3 million as of December 31, 2017. The $88.6 million increase in working capital was due to a $108.2 million increase in current assets, partially offset by a $19.6 million increase in current liabilities. The increase in current assets was primarily due to an increase in cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable and inventories. The increase in current liabilities was primarily due to an increase in accounts payable, accrued compensation and related benefits, and other accrued liabilities. 



Summary of Cash Flows 







For the nine month ended September 30, 2018, net cash provided by operating activities was $93.9 million, primarily due to our net income adjusted for certain non-cash items, including depreciation and amortization and stock-based compensation, and a net decrease of $41.9 million from the changes in our operating assets and liabilities. The increase in accounts receivable was primarily driven by increased sales and the timing of shipments in the last month of the quarter. The increase in inventories was primarily driven by an increase in strategic wafer and die inventories as well as an increase in finished goods to meet current demand and future growth. The increase in accounts payable was primarily driven by increased inventory and capital asset purchases to meet future demand. For the nine months ended September 30, 2017, net cash provided by operating activities was $80.4 million, primarily due to our net income adjusted for certain non-cash items, including depreciation and amortization and stock-based compensation, and a net decrease of $25.1 million from the changes in our operating assets and liabilities. The increase in accounts receivable was primarily driven by higher sales and outstanding balances with certain customers with longer payment terms. The increase in inventories was primarily driven by an increase in strategic wafer and die inventories as well as an increase in finished goods to meet current demand and future growth. The increase in accounts payable was primarily driven by increased inventory and capital asset purchases to meet future demand. The increase in accrued liabilities was primarily driven by an increase in employee contributions to the deferred compensation plan and warranty expenses.  





Table of Contents  



For the nine months ended September 30, 2018, net cash used in investing activities was $21.8 million, primarily due to purchases of property and equipment of $18.1 million, net purchases of short-term investments of $2.3 million, and net contributions to the deferred compensation plan of $1.4 million. For the nine months ended September 30, 2017, net cash used in investing activities was $67.8 million, primarily due to net purchases of short-term investments of $40.6 million, purchases of property and equipment of $25.1 million, and net contributions to the deferred compensation plan of $2.1 million. 



For the nine months ended September 30, 2018, net cash used in financing activities was $21.7 million, primarily reflecting $34.4 million used to pay dividends to our stockholders and dividend equivalents to our employees who hold RSUs, partially offset by $12.7 million of cash proceeds from vesting of RSUs and issuance of shares through our employee stock purchase plan. For the nine months ended September 30, 2017, net cash used in financing activities was $22.7 million, primarily reflecting $25.3 million used to pay dividends to our stockholders and dividend equivalents to our employees who hold RSUs, partially offset by $2.8 million of cash proceeds from stock option exercises and issuance of shares through our employee stock purchase plan. 



We have a dividend program pursuant to which we intend to pay quarterly cash dividends on our common stock. In addition, outstanding RSU awards contain rights to receive dividend equivalents, which entitle employees who hold RSUs to the same dividend value per share as holders of common stock. The dividend equivalents are accumulated and paid to the employees when the underlying RSUs vest. Dividend equivalents accumulated on the underlying RSUs are forfeited if the employees do not fulfill their service requirement and the awards do not vest. For the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we paid dividends and dividend equivalents totaling $34.4 million. For the nine months ended September 30, 2017, we paid dividends and dividend equivalents totaling $25.3 million. 



In February 2018, our Board of Directors approved an increase in our quarterly cash dividends from $0.20 per share to $0.30 per share, effective for the dividends declared in the first quarter of 2018. 



We anticipate that cash used for future dividends and dividend equivalent payments, as well as payments for the one-time deemed repatriation transition tax and other expenditures, will come from our current domestic cash and cash generated from ongoing U.S. operations, as well as cash to be repatriated from our Bermuda subsidiary. Earnings from other foreign subsidiaries will continue to be indefinitely reinvested. 



Although cash requirements will fluctuate based on the timing and extent of many factors such as those discussed above, we believe that cash generated from operations, together with the liquidity provided by existing cash balances and short-term investments, will be sufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements for the next 12 months.  







Contractual Obligations 



Our outstanding purchase commitments primarily consist of wafer purchases from our foundries, assembly services and license arrangements. As of September 30, 2018, the outstanding balance under our purchase commitments was $67.7 million, compared with $52.6 million as of December 31, 2017. 



Under the 2017 Tax Act, we have a transition tax liability which represents a one-time, mandatory deemed repatriation tax imposed on previously deferred foreign earnings. As permitted by the 2017 Tax Act, we elected to pay the tax liability in installment over eight years through 2025. During the first quarter of 2018, we paid the 2018 installment of $1.9 million. As of September 30, 2018, the outstanding liability was $22.0 million. 





Table of Contents  



Other long-term obligations include long-term liabilities reflected in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, which primarily consist of the deferred compensation plan liabilities and accrued dividend equivalents. As of September 30, 2018, the outstanding obligations were $36.3 million, compared with $33.0 million as of December 31, 2017. 



Our other contractual obligations have not changed significantly from those disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017. 



