ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 



This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, that have been made pursuant to and in reliance on the provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements include, among others, statements concerning:



      •   the above-average industry growth of product and market areas that we have targeted,    



      •   our plan to increase our revenue through the introduction of new products within our existing product families as well as in new product categories and families,    



      •   our belief that we may incur significant legal expenses that vary with the level of activity in each of our current or future legal proceedings,    



      •   the effect that liquidity of our investments has on our capital resources,    



      •   the continuing application of our products in the computing and storage, automotive, industrial, communications and consumer markets,    



      •   estimates of our future liquidity requirements,    



      •   the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry,    



      •   protection of our proprietary technology,    



      •   business outlook for the remainder of 2019 and beyond,    



      •   the factors that we believe will impact our ability to achieve revenue growth,    



      •   the percentage of our total revenue from various end markets,    



      •   our ability to identify, acquire and integrate the companies, businesses and products that we acquire and achieve the anticipated benefits from such acquisitions,   



      •   the impact of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act enacted in December 2017 (the "2017 Tax Act") on our income tax provision, financial position and cash flows,    



      •   our plan to repatriate cash from our international subsidiaries,    



      •   our intention and ability to pay future cash dividends and dividend equivalents, and    



      •   the factors that differentiate us from our competitors.    



In some cases, words such as “would,” “could,” “may,” “should,” “predict,” “potential,” “targets,” “continue,” “anticipate,” “expect,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “seek,” “estimate,” “project,” “forecast,” “will,” the negative of these terms or other variations of such terms and similar expressions relating to the future identify forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements are based on our current outlook, expectations, estimates, projections, beliefs and plans or objectives about our business and our industry. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual events or results could differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any such forward-looking statements. Risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially include those set forth throughout this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and, in particular, in the section entitled “Item 1A. Risk Factors.” Except as required by law, we disclaim any duty to, and undertake no obligation to, update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information relating to existing conditions, future events or otherwise or to release publicly the results of any future revisions we may make to forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements, which speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Readers should carefully review future reports and documents that we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and any Current Reports on Form 8-K.  





Table of Contents  



Overview 



We are a leading semiconductor company that designs, develops and markets high-performance power solutions. Incorporated in 1997, MPS’s core strengths include deep system-level and applications knowledge, strong analog design expertise and an innovative proprietary process technology. These combined strengths enable MPS to deliver highly integrated monolithic products that offer energy efficient, cost-effective, easy-to-use solutions for systems found in computing and storage, automotive, industrial, communications and consumer applications. Our mission is to reduce total energy consumption in our customers' systems with green, practical and compact solutions. We believe that we differentiate ourselves by offering solutions that are more highly integrated, smaller in size, more energy efficient, more accurate with respect to performance specifications and, consequently, more cost-effective than many competing solutions. We plan to continue to introduce new products within our existing product families, as well as in new innovative product categories. 



We operate in the cyclical semiconductor industry where there is seasonal demand for certain products. We are not immune from current and future industry downturns, but we have targeted product and market areas that we believe have the ability to offer above average industry performance over the long term. 



We work with third parties to manufacture and assemble our integrated circuits ("ICs"). This has enabled us to limit our capital expenditures and fixed costs, while focusing our engineering and design resources on our core strengths. 



Following the introduction of a product, our sales cycle generally takes a number of quarters after we receive an initial customer order for a new product to ramp up. Typical lead time for orders is fewer than 90 days. These factors, combined with the fact that orders in the semiconductor industry can typically be cancelled or rescheduled without significant penalty to the customer, make the forecasting of our orders and revenue difficult. 



We derive most of our revenue from sales through distribution arrangements and direct sales to customers in Asia, where our products are incorporated into end-user products. For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, our revenue from sales to customers in Asia was 87% and 88%, respectively. We derive a majority of our revenue from the sales of our DC to DC converter products which serve the computing and storage, automotive, industrial, communications and consumer markets. We believe our ability to achieve revenue growth will depend, in part, on our ability to develop new products, enter new market segments, gain market share, manage litigation risk, diversify our customer base and continue to secure manufacturing capacity. 



Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 



There have been no significant changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates used in the preparation of our financial statements during the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to those disclosed in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018. 



Results of Operations 









Table of Contents  



Revenue 







Revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2019 was $141.4 million, an increase of $12.2 million, or 9.5%, from $129.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018. This increase was driven by higher sales in all of our end markets except for the consumer market. Overall unit shipments increased by 13% due to higher market demand, and average sales prices decreased by approximately 2% from the same period in 2018. 



Revenue from the computing and storage market for the three months ended March 31, 2019 increased $8.2 million, or 26.5%, from the same period in 2018. This increase was primarily driven by strength in the high-performance notebook market. Revenue from the automotive market increased $2.8 million, or 15.7%, from the same period in 2018. This increase was primarily driven by higher sales of products for infotainment, safety and connectivity applications. Revenue from the industrial market increased $3.8 million, or 21.6%, from the same period in 2018. This increase was primarily driven by higher sales in power source and security products. Revenue from the communications market increased $6.4 million, or 40.8%, from the same period in 2018. This increase was primarily driven by higher demand in networking applications. Revenue from the consumer market decreased $9.0 million, or 19.1%, from the same period in 2018. This decrease was primarily due to softness in demand for high volume consumer-related products, particularly those sold in the greater China region, as well as lower sales from chargers and gaming products. This decrease was partially offset by higher demand for home appliance products.  



Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin 



 Cost of revenue primarily consists of costs incurred to manufacture, assemble and test our products, as well as warranty costs, inventory-related and other overhead costs, and stock-based compensation expenses. 





Cost of revenue was $63.4 million, or 44.8% of revenue, for the three months ended March 31, 2019, and $57.7 million, or 44.6% of revenue, for the three months ended March 31, 2018. The $5.7 million increase in cost of revenue was primarily due to a 13% increase in overall unit shipments and a 6% increase in the average direct cost of units shipped. The increase in cost of revenue was partially offset by a $1.6 million decrease in warranty expense and a $1.1 million decrease in inventory write-downs. 



Gross margin was 55.2% for the three months ended March 31, 2019, compared with 55.4% for the three months ended March 31, 2018. The decrease in gross margin was primarily due to increased sales of lower margin products, which was partially offset by lower manufacturing overhead costs, warranty expenses and inventory write-downs as a percentage of revenue. 





Table of Contents  



Research and Development 









Selling, General and Administrative 









Litigation Expense 



Litigation expense was $0.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, compared with $0.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018. The decrease was primarily due to lower expenses incurred on an ongoing lawsuit in which we are the plaintiff. 



Interest and Other Income, Net 



Interest and other income, net, was $3.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, compared with $0.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018. The increase was primarily due to an increase of $2.1 million in income related to changes in the value of the deferred compensation plan investments, a decrease of $0.3 million in amortization of premium on available-for-sale securities, an increase of $0.2 million in interest income as a result of higher investment balances and yields, and a decrease of $0.2 million in foreign currency exchange loss. 



Income Tax Expense (Benefit) 



The income tax provision for interim periods is generally determined using an estimate of our annual effective tax rate and adjusted for discrete items, if any, in the relevant period. Each quarter the estimate of the annual effective tax rate is updated, and if our estimated tax rate changes, a cumulative adjustment is made. 



The income tax benefit for the three months ended March 31, 2019 was $1.1 million, or 4.5% of pre-tax income. The effective tax rate differed from the federal statutory rate primarily due to foreign income from our subsidiaries in Bermuda and China being taxed at lower statutory tax rates, and the benefit obtained from certain discrete items recognized in the period, including excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation. The decrease in the effective tax rate relative to the federal statutory rate was partially offset by the inclusion of the global intangible low-taxed income ("GILTI") tax. 





Table of Contents  



 The income tax expense for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was $0.6 million, or 2.8% of pre-tax income. The effective tax rate differed from the federal statutory rate primarily due to foreign income from our subsidiaries in Bermuda and China being taxed at lower statutory tax rates, and the benefit obtained from certain discrete items recognized in the period, including excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation. The decrease in the effective tax rate relative to the federal statutory rate was partially offset by the inclusion of the GILTI tax. 



 For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, our effective tax rate included the estimated impact of $15.5 million and $12.4 million, respectively, related to the GILTI provisions that was included as additional subpart F income, which was accounted for as a period cost. 



Liquidity and Capital Resources 





As of March 31, 2019, we had cash and cash equivalents of $181.8 million and short-term investments of $177.3 million, compared with cash and cash equivalents of $172.7 million and short-term investments of $204.6 million as of December 31, 2018. As of March 31, 2019, $114.4 million of cash and cash equivalents and $82.2 million of short-term investments were held by our international subsidiaries. For the three months ended March 31, 2019, we repatriated $75 million of cash from our Bermuda subsidiary to the U.S. The proceeds are primarily used to fund our cash dividend payments and real estate purchases. We may repatriate additional cash from our Bermuda subsidiary to fund our future expenditures. Earnings from other foreign subsidiaries will continue to be indefinitely reinvested. 



The significant components of our working capital are cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, accounts receivable, inventories and other current assets, reduced by accounts payable, accrued compensation and related benefits, and other accrued liabilities. As of March 31, 2019, we had working capital of $482.5 million, compared with working capital of $500.4 million as of December 31, 2018. The $17.9 million decrease in working capital was due to an $11.2 million increase in current liabilities, coupled with a $6.7 million decrease in current assets. The increase in current liabilities was primarily due to an increase in accounts payable and other accrued liabilities. The decrease in current assets was primarily due to a decrease in short-term investments, which was partially offset by an increase in cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, inventories and other current assets. As of March 31, 2019, total cash, cash equivalents and short investments decreased $18.3 million compared to the balance as of December 31, 2018, primarily due to the purchase of a building and land in Kirkland, Washington, which was partially offset by additional cash generated from operations. 



Summary of Cash Flows 









Table of Contents  



For the three months ended March 31, 2019, net cash provided by operating activities was $38.8 million, primarily due to our net income adjusted for certain non-cash items, including depreciation and amortization and stock-based compensation, and a net decrease of $4.8 million from the changes in our operating assets and liabilities. The increase in accounts receivable was primarily driven by timing of shipments in the last month of the quarter and sales to customers with longer payment terms. The increase in inventories was primarily driven by an increase in finished goods to meet current demand and future growth. The increase in accrued liabilities was primarily driven by an increase in employee contributions to the deferred compensation plan. For the three months ended March 31, 2018, net cash provided by operating activities was $16.3 million, primarily due to our net income adjusted for certain non-cash items, including depreciation and amortization and stock-based compensation, and a net decrease of $23.9 million from the changes in our operating assets and liabilities. The increase in accounts receivable was primarily driven by timing of shipments in the last month of the quarter. The increase in inventories was primarily driven by an increase in strategic wafer and die inventories as well as an increase in finished goods to meet current demand and future growth.  



 For the three months ended March 31, 2019, net cash used in investing activities was $30.8 million, primarily due to purchases of property and equipment of $58.4 million, which included the purchase of a building and land in Kirkland, Washington for $52.3 million, and net contributions to the deferred compensation plan of $1.0 million. Cash used in investing activities was partially offset by proceeds from maturities and sales of investments of $28.1 million and sales of property and equipment of $1.5 million. For the three months ended March 31, 2018, net cash used in investing activities was $25.2 million, primarily due to purchases of property and equipment of $7.4 million, net purchases of short-term investments of $16.5 million, and net contributions to the deferred compensation plan of $1.3 million.  



For the three months ended March 31, 2019, net cash used in financing activities was $0.8 million, primarily reflecting $12.8 million used to pay dividends to our stockholders and dividend equivalents to our employees who hold RSUs, which was partially offset by $12.0 million of cash proceeds from vesting of RSUs and issuance of shares through our employee stock purchase plan. For the three months ended March 31, 2018, net cash provided by financing activities was $1.0 million, primarily reflecting $9.4 million of cash proceeds from vesting of RSUs and issuance of shares through our employee stock purchase plan, partially offset by $8.3 million used to pay dividends to our stockholders and dividend equivalents to our employees who hold RSUs.  



We have a dividend program pursuant to which we intend to pay quarterly cash dividends on our common stock. In addition, outstanding RSU awards contain rights to receive dividend equivalents, which entitle employees who hold RSUs to the same dividend value per share as holders of common stock. The dividend equivalents are accumulated and paid to the employees when the underlying RSUs vest. Dividend equivalents accumulated on the underlying RSUs are forfeited if the employees do not fulfill their service requirement and the awards do not vest.  



We anticipate that cash used for future dividends and dividend equivalent payments, as well as payments for the one-time deemed repatriation transition tax and other expenditures, will come from our current domestic cash, cash generated from ongoing U.S. operations, and cash repatriated from our Bermuda subsidiary. Earnings from other foreign subsidiaries will continue to be indefinitely reinvested. 



Although cash requirements will fluctuate based on the timing and extent of many factors such as those discussed above, we believe that cash generated from operations, together with the liquidity provided by existing cash balances and short-term investments, will be sufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements for the next 12 months.  









Table of Contents  



Contractual Obligations 



Our outstanding purchase commitments primarily consist of wafer purchases, assembly and other manufacturing services, construction services and license arrangements. As of March 31, 2019, the outstanding balance under our purchase commitments was $79.1 million, compared with $61.4 million as of December 31, 2018. 



Under the 2017 Tax Act, we have a transition tax liability which represents a one-time, mandatory deemed repatriation tax imposed on previously deferred foreign earnings. As permitted by the 2017 Tax Act, we elected to pay the tax liability in installments on an interest-free basis through 2025. As of March 31, 2019, the outstanding liability was $22.1 million. 



Other long-term obligations include long-term liabilities reflected on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, which primarily consist of the deferred compensation plan liabilities and accrued dividend equivalents. As of March 31, 2019, the outstanding obligations were $42.0 million, compared with $38.5 million as of December 31, 2018. 



Our other contractual obligations have not changed significantly from those disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018. 



Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 



As of March 31, 2019, we had no off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Item 303(a)(4) of the Securities and Exchange Commission’s Regulation S-K. 



