In the opinion of management, the information furnished in the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements reflects all normal recurring adjustments that are necessary to fairly state the results for these interim periods and should be read in conjunction with Analog Devices, Inc.’s (the Company) Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 28, 2017 (fiscal 2017) and related notes.
The results of operations for the interim periods shown in this report are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the fiscal year ending November 3, 2018 (fiscal 2018) or any future period.
On March 10, 2017 (Acquisition Date), the Company completed the acquisition of Linear Technology Corporation (Linear), a designer, manufacturer and marketer of high performance analog integrated circuits.
The condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q include the financial results of Linear prospectively from the Acquisition Date.
The Company has a 52-53 week fiscal year that ends on the Saturday closest to the last day in October.
Revenue from product sales to customers is generally recognized when title passes, which is upon shipment in the U.S. and in certain foreign countries.
Revenue from product sales to customers in other foreign countries is recognized subsequent to product shipment.
Accordingly, the Company defers the revenue recognized relating to these other foreign countries until title has passed.
For multiple element arrangements, the Company allocates arrangement consideration among the elements based on the relative fair values of those elements as determined using vendor-specific objective evidence or third-party evidence.
The Company uses its best estimate of selling price to allocate arrangement consideration between the deliverables in cases where neither vendor-specific objective evidence nor third-party evidence is available.
Revenue from contracts with the United States government, government prime contractors and some commercial customers is generally recorded on a percentage of completion basis using either units delivered or costs incurred as the measurement basis for progress towards completion.Therefore, the first nine months of fiscal 2018 included an additional week of operations as compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2017.
The condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q include the financial results of Linear prospectively from the Acquisition Date.
The following tables summarize revenue by end market for the three- and nine-month periods ended August 4, 2018 and July 29, 2017.
Industrial - Industrial end market revenue increased in the three-month period ended August 4, 2018, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, primarily as a result of a broad-based increase in demand for our products in this end market.Continuing uncertainty regarding the stability of global credit and financial markets may lead consumers and businesses to postpone spending, which may cause our customers to cancel, decrease or delay their existing and future orders for our products and make it difficult for us to accurately forecast and plan our future business activities.
Significant disruption to global credit and financial markets may also adversely affect our ability to access external financing sources on acceptable terms.
Financial difficulties experienced by our customers could result in nonpayment or payment delays for previously purchased products, thereby increasing our credit risk exposure.
Uncertainty regarding the future stability of the global credit and financial markets could cause the value of the currency in the affected markets to deteriorate, thus reducing the purchasing power of those customers.