fls.txt



item1.txt
Cabot Microelectronics Corporation ("Cabot Microelectronics'', "the Company'', "us'', "we'', or "our'') supplies high-performance polishing slurries and pads used in the manufacture of advanced integrated circuit (IC) devices within the semiconductor industry, in a process called chemical mechanical planarization (CMP).
CMP polishes surfaces at an atomic level, thereby helping to enable IC device manufacturers to produce smaller, faster and more complex IC devices with fewer defects.
We develop, produce and sell CMP slurries for polishing many of the conducting and insulating materials used in IC devices.
We also develop and provide products for demanding surface modification applications in other industries through our Engineered Surface Finishes (ESF) business.
For additional information, refer to Part 1, Item 1, "Business", in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017.
In the opinion of management, these unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements include all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for the fair statement of Cabot Microelectronics' financial position as of March 31, 2018, cash flows for the six months ended March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017, and results of operations for the three and six months ended March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017.
The Consolidated Balance Sheets as of September 30, 2017 were derived from audited financial statements.
All intercompany transactions and balances between the companies have been eliminated as of March 31, 2018.
The accounting estimates that require management's most difficult and subjective judgments include, but are not limited to, those estimates related to bad debt expense, inventory valuation, valuation and classification of auction rate securities, impairment of long-lived assets and investments, business combinations, goodwill, other intangible assets, interest rate swaps, share-based compensation, income taxes and contingencies.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company entered into a managed investment arrangement with a third party to invest in fixed income securities.
The Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") established a three-level hierarchy for disclosure based on the extent and level of judgment used to estimate fair value.
Level 1 inputs consist of valuations based on quoted market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
The following table presents financial instruments, other than long-term debt, that we measured at fair value on a recurring basis at March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2017.
See Note 8 for a detailed discussion of our long-term debt.
Our cash and cash equivalents consist of various bank accounts used to support our operations and investments in institutional money-market funds that are traded in active markets.
We are invested exclusively in AAA-rated, prime institutional money market funds, comprised of high quality, fixed income securities.
Our other long-term investments represent the fair value of investments under the Cabot Microelectronics Supplemental Employee Retirement Plan (SERP), which is a nonqualified supplemental savings plan.


item2.txt
This was driven in part by our memory customers' migration from 2D to 3D NAND.
Revenue for our second quarter of fiscal 2018 was $143.0 million, which represented an increase of 20.0% from the second quarter of fiscal 2017, with revenue in dielectrics slurries and polishing pads product areas increasing 24.0% and 22.6% from the same quarter last year, respectively.
We currently expect our gross profit margin for the full fiscal year 2018 to be between 51% and 53%, an increase from our prior full year guidance range of 50% to 52%.
This includes approximately 100 basis points of NexPlanar amortization expense.
The increase in operating expenses from the comparable quarter of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to higher incentive compensation and annual merit increases.
There have been no material changes in our critical accounting estimates during the first six months of fiscal 2018.
Revenue was $143.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018, which represented a 20.0%, or $23.8 million, increase from the three months ended March 31, 2017.


item3.txt
Approximately 25% of our revenue is transacted in currencies other than the U.S. dollar.


item4.txt
A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met.


part2.txt
While we are not involved in any legal proceedings that we believe will have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows, we periodically become a party to legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business.
We do not believe there have been any material changes in our risk factors since the filing of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017.
However, we may update our risk factors, including adding or deleting them, in our SEC filings from time to time for clarification purposes or to include additional information, at management's discretion, even when there have been no material changes.


