fls.txt



item1.txt
In the opinion of management, these unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements include all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for the fair statement of Cabot Microelectronics’ financial position as of June 30, 2019, cash flows for the nine months ended June 30, 2019 and June 30, 2018, and results of operations for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2019 and June 30, 2018.
The Consolidated Balance Sheets as of September 30, 2018 were derived from audited financial statements.
All intercompany transactions and balances between the companies have been eliminated as of June 30, 2019.
The accounting estimates that require management's most difficult and subjective judgments include, but are not limited to, those estimates related to bad debt expense, inventory valuation, impairment of long-lived assets, business combinations, goodwill, other intangible assets, share-based compensation, income taxes and contingencies.
The comparative information has not been restated and continues to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for those periods.
We previously accrued for undelivered free product as a charge to cost of sales.
In prior fiscal years, in accordance with ASC 605, we did not consider prospective tiered pricing to represent a material right.
See Note 3 of this Report on Form 10-Q for disaggregated revenue, the reconciliation of contract balances and transaction price allocation to remaining performance obligations for contracts expected to remain effective beyond one year.
A contract’s transaction price is allocated to each distinct performance obligation and recognized as revenue when, or as, the performance obligation is satisfied.
Some contracts include multiple performance obligations, including prospective tiered price discounts or delivery of free product that we have concluded represents a material right.
Contracts with prospective tiered price discounts require judgment in determining if that discount represents a material right.
However, the period of time between invoicing and when payment is due is typically not significant and has no significant financing components.
In certain instances, we receive consideration from a customer prior to transferring goods or services to the customer under the terms of a sales contract.
In such cases, we record deferred revenue until the performance obligation is satisfied, which represents a contract liability, and is included in the contract liabilities discussed in Note 3 of this Report on Form 10-Q.
Revenue is recorded at a point in time when the services are completed as this is when right to payment and customer acceptance occurs.
For sales contracts that contain multiple performance obligations, the Company allocates the transaction price to each performance obligation identified in the contract based on relative standalone selling prices or estimates of such prices.


item2.txt
Except as required by law, Cabot Microelectronics undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements made by it to reflect new information, subsequent events or circumstances.
In the Electronic Materials segment, we recorded lower CMP slurries revenue, which was partially offset by higher revenue in CMP pads and electronic chemicals.
CMP slurries have a high participation to memory, and were adversely impacted by the decrease in DRAM and NAND production at our customers this year.
In logic applications, the transition to advanced nodes by many of our top customers is driving increased demand for materials, particularly electronic chemicals.
Results benefited from the Acquisition, but were more than offset by acquisition-related expenses, increased amortization and depreciation associated with re-valuing KMG assets to fair value, higher interest expenses resulting from the debt borrowing to finance the Acquisition, costs related to the KMG-Bernuth warehouse fire that occurred in May 2019, and increased tax expense related to newly issued final regulations related to US Tax Reform which impacted our reserves for uncertain tax positions.
Refer to the “Use of certain GAAP and Non-GAAP Financial Information” section below for the definition of adjusted EBITDA and a reconciliation of adjusted EBITDA to net income, the most comparable GAAP financial measure.
Total research, development and technical expenses were $12.2 million for the three months ended June 30, 2019, which represented a decrease of 6.6%, or $0.9 million, from the three months ended June 30, 2018.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
The information set forth in Note 12 “Commitments and Contingencies,” to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Report on Form 10-Q is incorporated herein by reference.
We have identified our Performance Materials segment as another area of potential continued growth and the product offerings in our Performance Materials segment are similarly concentrated.
Potential technology developments in the semiconductor industry, as well as our customers' efforts to reduce consumption of CMP consumables, including through use of smaller quantities, could render our products less important to the IC device manufacturing process.
Industry analysts predict that this trend will continue, which means the semiconductor industry will be comprised of fewer and larger participants in the future if their prediction is correct.
In addition, our customer base in our pipeline-related businesses is also somewhat concentrated, with large entities predominant, and outside of the United States, these entities frequently are state-owned or sponsored and limited in number per country, as described more above.


