fls.txt



item1.txt
Cabot Microelectronics Corporation ("Cabot Microelectronics'', "the Company'', "us'', "we'', or "our'') supplies high-performance polishing slurries and pads used in the manufacture of advanced integrated circuit (IC) devices within the semiconductor industry, in a process called chemical mechanical planarization (CMP).
CMP polishes surfaces at an atomic level, thereby helping to enable IC device manufacturers to produce smaller, faster and more complex IC devices with fewer defects.
We develop, produce and sell CMP slurries for polishing many of the conducting and insulating materials used in IC devices.
We also develop and provide products for demanding surface modification applications in other industries through our Engineered Surface Finishes (ESF) business.
For additional information, refer to Part 1, Item 1, "Business", in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017.
In the opinion of management, these unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements include all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for the fair statement of Cabot Microelectronics' financial position as of June 30, 2018, cash flows for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 and June 30, 2017, and results of operations for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018 and June 30, 2017.
The Consolidated Balance Sheets as of September 30, 2017 were derived from audited financial statements.
All intercompany transactions and balances between the companies have been eliminated as of June 30, 2018.
The accounting estimates that require management's most difficult and subjective judgments include, but are not limited to, those estimates related to bad debt expense, inventory valuation, valuation and classification of auction rate securities, impairment of long-lived assets and investments, business combinations, goodwill, other intangible assets, interest rate swaps, share-based compensation, income taxes and contingencies.
We have presented these securities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of June 30, 2018 as a current asset due to management's intent to use these funds for current business requirements.
Unrealized gains and losses, net of the related tax effect, are recorded within other comprehensive income.
Cash flows from purchases, sales and maturities of these securities are presented as investing activities on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.
The Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") established a three-level hierarchy for disclosure based on the extent and level of judgment used to estimate fair value.
Level 1 inputs consist of valuations based on quoted market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
The following table presents financial instruments, other than long-term debt, that we measured at fair value on a recurring basis at June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017.
See Note 8 for a detailed discussion of our long-term debt.
Our cash and cash equivalents consist of various bank accounts used to support our operations and investments in institutional money-market funds that are traded in active markets.


item2.txt
This was driven in part by our memory customers' migration from 2D to 3D NAND, which requires more CMP processing steps.
Revenue for our third quarter of fiscal 2018 was $150.4 million, which represented an increase of 17.6% from the third quarter of fiscal 2017, with revenue in dielectrics slurries, polishing pads and tungsten slurries increasing 21.0%, 18.9% and 17.5%, respectively, from the same quarter last year.
We currently expect our gross margin for the full fiscal year 2018 to be at the high end of our revised guidance range of 52% to 53%, including NexPlanar amortization expense; this is an increase from our prior full year guidance range of 51% to 53%.
There have been no material changes in our critical accounting estimates during the first nine months of fiscal 2018.
Revenue was $150.4 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018, which represented a 17.6%, or $22.5 million, increase from the three months ended June 30, 2017.
The increase in revenue was primarily driven by a $15.2 million increase due to higher sales volume, a $6.2 million increase due to higher value product mix, and a $1.7 million increase due to foreign exchange fluctuations, partially offset by a $0.6 million decrease due to price changes.
Total cost of goods sold was $69.7 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018, which represented an increase of 6.6%, or $4.3 million, from the three months ended June 30, 2017.


item3.txt
Approximately 26% of our revenue is transacted in currencies other than the U.S. dollar.


item4.txt
A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met.


part2.txt
While we are not involved in any legal proceedings that we believe will have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows, we periodically become a party to legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business.
We do not believe there have been any material changes in our risk factors since the filing of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017.
However, we may update our risk factors, including adding or deleting them, in our SEC filings from time to time for clarification purposes or to include additional information, at management's discretion, even when there have been no material changes.
Furthermore, competitive dynamics within the semiconductor industry may impact our business.


