In the opinion of management, these unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements include all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for the fair statement of Cabot Microelectronics’ financial position as of December 31, 2018, cash flows for the three months ended December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, and results of operations for the three months ended December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017.
The Consolidated Balance Sheets as of September 30, 2018 were derived from audited financial statements.
This Report on Form 10-Q does not contain all of the footnote disclosures from the annual financial statements and should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes thereto included in Cabot Microelectronics’ Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018.
All intercompany transactions and balances between the companies have been eliminated as of December 31, 2018.
The accounting estimates that require management's most difficult and subjective judgments include, but are not limited to, those estimates related to bad debt expense, inventory valuation, impairment of long-lived assets and investments, business combinations, goodwill, other intangible assets, share-based compensation, income taxes and contingencies.
The comparative information has not been restated and continues to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for those periods.
The Company changed its accounting policy for revenue recognition for customer incentives that provide free products and tiered pricing.
We previously accrued for undelivered free product as a charge to cost of sales.
In prior fiscal years, in accordance with ASC 605, we did not consider prospective tiered pricing to represent a material right.
See Note 3. for disaggregated revenue, the reconciliation of contract balances and transaction price allocation to remaining performance obligations for contracts expected to remain effective beyond one year.
A contract’s transaction price is allocated to each distinct performance obligation and recognized as revenue when, or as, the performance obligation is satisfied.Except as required by law, Cabot Microelectronics undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements made by it to reflect new information, subsequent events or circumstances.
Some semiconductor industry analysts are predicting a weaker demand in the first half of the calendar year, with expectations for some strengthening in the second half of calendar 2019, which would indicate a return to a more traditional seasonal pattern for the industry.
This was driven in part by our memory customers’ migration from 2D to 3D NAND, which requires more CMP processing steps and significantly increases the need for consumables, including tungsten slurries.
In the Performance Materials segment, we also recorded strong revenue, driven by increased demand for our industry leading drag-reducing agents, or DRA’s.The information set forth in Note 12 “Commitments and Contingencies,” to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Report on Form 10-Q is incorporated herein by reference.
Transactions such as these could have negative effects on our results of operations, in areas such as contingent liabilities, gross margins, amortization charges related to intangible assets and other effects of accounting for the purchases of other business entities.
We have identified our Performance Materials segment as another area of potential continued growth and the product offerings in our Performance Materials segment are similarly concentrated.