Cabot Microelectronics Corporation ("Cabot Microelectronics'', "the Company'', "us'', "we'', or "our'') supplies high-performance polishing slurries and pads used in the manufacture of advanced integrated circuit (IC) devices within the semiconductor industry, in a process called chemical mechanical planarization (CMP).
CMP polishes surfaces at an atomic level, thereby helping to enable IC device manufacturers to produce smaller, faster and more complex IC devices with fewer defects.
We develop, produce and sell CMP slurries for polishing many of the conducting and insulating materials used in IC devices.
We also develop and provide products for demanding surface modification applications in other industries through our Engineered Surface Finishes (ESF) business.
In the opinion of management, these unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements include all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for the fair statement of Cabot Microelectronics' financial position as of December 31, 2017, cash flows for the three months ended December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, and results of operations for the three months ended December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016.
The Consolidated Balance Sheets as of September 30, 2017 were derived from audited financial statements.
All intercompany transactions and balances between the companies have been eliminated as of December 31, 2017.
The accounting estimates that require management's most difficult and subjective judgments include, but are not limited to, those estimates related to bad debt expense, inventory valuation, valuation and classification of auction rate securities, impairment of long-lived assets and investments, business combinations, goodwill, other intangible assets, interest rate swaps, share-based compensation, income taxes and contingencies.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company entered into a managed investment arrangement with a third party to invest in fixed income securities.
We have presented these securities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2017 as a current asset due to management's intent to use these funds for current business requirements.
Unrealized gains and losses, net of the related tax effect, are recorded within other comprehensive income.Forward-looking statements reflect our current expectations and are inherently uncertain.
In our first quarter of fiscal 2018, we experienced continued solid demand for our products, particularly for memory and logic applications, as well as continued strength in China.
We achieved record quarterly revenue in our tungsten slurry and polishing pads product areas.
There have been no material changes in our critical accounting estimates during the first three months of fiscal 2018.Approximately 23% of our revenue is transacted in currencies other than the U.S. dollar.We do not believe there have been any material changes in our risk factors since the filing of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017.
However, we may update our risk factors, including adding or deleting them, in our SEC filings from time to time for clarification purposes or to include additional information, at management's discretion, even when there have been no material changes.