PART II - OTHER INFORMATION
Item 1: Legal Proceedings
We are the subject of various pending or threatened legal actions in the ordinary course of our business.
All such matters are subject to many uncertainties and outcomes that are not predictable with assurance.
In our opinion, as of March 31, 2019, there were no claims or litigation pending that would be reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or liquidity.
Item 1A: Risk Factors
Conducting business in foreign countries involves additional financial, operating, and regulatory risks.
All of our employees in Tianjin, China are represented by a labor union, and our employees in Beijing, China are represented by a separate labor union pursuant to the requirements of China’s National Labor Law.
These two labor unions do not have collective bargaining rights.
We are in the process of transitioning several product lines from our Tianjin facility to additional contract manufacturers in China and elsewhere throughout 2019 and 2020.
The transition of manufacturing will result in a reduction of a significant portion of our workforce in Tianjin, China.
We are currently negotiating severance arrangements for these workers.
In the third quarter 2018, the Office of the United States Trade Representative imposed duties on certain Chinese imports containing industrially significant technologies, including certain PCTEL antenna and antenna components, and there are additional tariffs under review.
Tariffs impact the gross margin that we earn on sales of its products and have necessitated price increases.
Furthermore, political uncertainty surrounding international trade disputes and protectionist measures may have a negative effect on customer confidence and spending.
We will continue to monitor and adjust prices as necessary and as market conditions permit.
The impact of the tariffs on our future revenue and profitability is uncertain.
Item 2: Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
None.
Item 3: Defaults Upon Senior Securities
None.
Item 4: Mine Safety Disclosures
Not applicable.
Item 5: Other Information
In January 2019, the Company entered into an eleven-year lease with FP Gateway 270 for 21,030 square feet of office space in Clarksburg, Maryland for our test and measurement product line.
This new office lease will replace the leased office in Germantown, Maryland.
The total lease obligations pursuant to the new lease agreement is approximately $5.4 million with a commencement date of January 1, 2020 and termination date of February 28, 2031.
Item 6: Exhibits
SIGNATURE
PCTEL, Inc.,
a Delaware corporation
David A. Neumann
Chief Executive Officer
Kevin J. McGowan
Chief Financial Officer
