Item 4: Controls and Procedures
Our management evaluated, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
In designing and evaluating our disclosure controls and procedures, management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can only provide reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives.
Based on that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that as of the end of the period covered by this report, our disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities and Exchange Act, as amended (the “Exchange Act”) were effective to ensure that information we are required to disclose in reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure, and that such information is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms.
In connection with the evaluation required by Rule 13a-15(d), management, with the participation of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer has identified that there have been no changes in our internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act) that occurred during the period covered by this report that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
Beginning January 1, 2019, we adopted ASC 842 “Leases”.
It is expected to have an immaterial impact on our ongoing net income; however, we implemented changes to our processes related to lease recognition and related internal controls.
These changes included the development of new procedures related to the determination of lease classification, ongoing contract review requirements, and gathering of information to comply with disclosure requirements.
Item 4: Mine Safety Disclosures
Not applicable.
Item 5: Other Information
In January 2019, the Company entered into an eleven-year lease with FP Gateway 270 for 21,030 square feet of office space in Clarksburg, Maryland for our test and measurement product line.
This new office lease will replace the leased office in Germantown, Maryland.
The total lease obligations pursuant to the new lease agreement is approximately $5.4 million with a commencement date of January 1, 2020 and termination date of February 28, 2031.
Item 6: Exhibits
SIGNATURE
PCTEL, Inc.,
a Delaware corporation
David A. Neumann
Chief Executive Officer
Kevin J. McGowan
Chief Financial Officer
