PART II - OTHER INFORMATION
Item 1: Legal Proceedings
We are the subject of various pending or threatened legal actions in the ordinary course of our business.
All such matters are subject to many uncertainties and outcomes that are not predictable with assurance.
In our opinion, as of September 30, 2019, there were no claims or litigation pending that would be reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or liquidity.
Item 1A: Risk Factors
Conducting business in foreign countries involves additional financial, operating, and regulatory risks.
We have a manufacturing facility in Tianjin, China and an engineering design center in Beijing, China.
All our Tianjin, China employees are represented by a labor union, and our employees in Beijing, China are represented by a separate labor union pursuant to the requirements of China’s National Labor Law.
These two labor unions do not have collective bargaining rights.
In order to optimize the cost structure of our antenna product line and increase our competitiveness, we have engaged several contract manufacturers over the last several years to manufacture certain antennas and we are in the process of transitioning manufacturing of antenna products from our Tianjin facility to contract manufacturers in China and elsewhere.
We expect the transition to be substantially completed by the end of our 2020 fiscal year (the “Transition Period”) and we expect to recognize cumulative pre-tax charges of approximately $1.0 million consisting of severance and other transition costs.
It is expected that a total of approximately 140 positions, or approximately 35% of the Company’s entire full-time global workforce, will be eliminated over the course of the Transition Period at an aggregate cost of approximately $0.9 million.
These separation costs will be paid in cash.
Other non-cash costs associated with the transition to contract manufacturers include fixed asset dispositions estimated to be $0.1 million.
We recognized restructuring expenses of $0.3 million during the third quarter ended September 30, 2019.
We anticipate that the remaining charges will be recognized as restructuring expenses during the fourth quarter of 2019 and the first half of 2020.
We expect to make cash payments for employee separation costs during the fourth quarter of 2019 and the first half of 2020.
We expect to retain the lease on our Tianjin facility for manufacturing of lower-volume, highly-customized antenna products and for administration of remaining China operations with a workforce of approximately 65 personnel until the end of the facility’s current lease term in October 2020.
Thereafter we intend to continue such manufacturing activities to the extent that we are successful in negotiating an extension of the lease term at a reasonable cost.
Beginning in the third quarter 2018, the Office of the United States Trade Representative imposed duties on certain Chinese imports containing industrially significant technologies, including certain PCTEL antenna and antenna components.
Additional tariffs were instituted in September 2019.
Tariffs impact the gross margin that we earn on sales of our products and have necessitated price increases.
Furthermore, political uncertainty surrounding international trade disputes and protectionist measures may have a negative effect on customer confidence and spending.
We will continue to monitor and adjust prices as necessary and as market conditions permit but we may not be able to adjust our prices enough to cover all of our tariff costs.
The impact of the tariffs on our future revenue and profitability is uncertain.
Item 2: Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
None.
Item 3: Defaults Upon Senior Securities
None.
Item 4: Mine Safety Disclosures
Not applicable.
Item 5: Other Information
None.
Item 6: Exhibits
SIGNATURE
PCTEL, Inc.,
a Delaware corporation
David A. Neumann
Chief Executive Officer
Kevin J. McGowan
Chief Financial Officer
