Item 1: Financial Statements (unaudited)
PCTEL, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
PCTEL, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (unaudited)
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
PCTEL, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE (LOSS) INCOME (unaudited)
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
PCTEL, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements
PCTEL, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
PCTEL, INC.
NOTES TO THE CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the Three and Nine Months Ended September 30, 2018 (Unaudited)
1.
Basis of Presentation
The accompanying unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
GAAP”) for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X.
Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by U.S. GAAP for complete financial statements.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring accruals) considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included.
For further information, refer to the audited consolidated financial statements and footnotes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 (the “2017 Form 10-K”).
Nature of Operations
PCTEL, Inc. (“PCTEL”, the “Company”, “we”, “ours”, and “us”) delivers Performance Critical TELecom technology solutions to the wireless industry.
PCTEL is a leading global supplier of wireless network antenna and testing solutions.
PCTEL’s Connected Solutions segment designs and manufactures precision antennas.
PCTEL antennas are deployed in small cells, enterprise Wi-Fi access points, fleet management and transit systems, and in network equipment and devices for the Industrial Internet of Things (“IIoT”).
PCTEL’s RF Solutions segment provides test tools that improve the performance of wireless networks globally.
Mobile operators, neutral hosts, and equipment manufacturers rely on PCTEL to analyze, design, and optimize next generation wireless networks.
Segment Reporting
Effective August 2018, the Company consolidated its organizational structure to drive growth and address the convergence in the industrial IoT, public safety, and 4G infrastructure markets and the emergence of new technologies such as 5G.
The Company’s operations, engineering, business development, sales and marketing, and operational general and administrative functions were consolidated into single enterprise-wide organizations.
As a result of the reorganization that occurred in the third quarter 2018, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, as the chief operating decision maker (“CODM”) began assessing operating profits and identified assets at the enterprise level for resource allocations, and instead of segment managers, the Chief Operating Officer began reporting to maintaining regular contact with the CODM to discuss operating activities, financial results, forecasts, and plans for the entire business.
All operating profit and cash flows are measured and managed at the enterprise level.
Until the reorganization, PCTEL operated in two segments for reporting purposes, Connected Solutions and RF Solutions.
The CODM assessed operating profits and identified assets for the Connected Solutions and RF Solutions segments for resource allocations.
Each segment had its own segment manager as well as its own engineering, business development, sales and marketing, and operational general and administrative functions.
The Company managed its balance sheet and cash flows centrally at the corporate level, with the exception of trade accounts receivable and inventory which were managed at the segment level.
Each of the segment managers reported to and maintained regular contact with the CODM to discuss operating activities, financial results, forecasts, and plans for the segment.
All of the Company’s accounting and finance, human resources, information technology (“IT”) and legal functions were provided on a centralized basis through the corporate function.
Because the reorganization occurred during the third quarter 2018, this report reflects the segment reporting structure that was in effect for all of 2017 and through August of 2018.
Beginning with the Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, the Company will not report any segment information.
The Company will report revenue and gross profit for its two major product lines, Antenna Products and Test and Measurement Products.
Connected Solutions Segment
PCTEL Connected Solutions designs and manufactures precision antennas.
PCTEL antennas are deployed primarily in small cells, enterprise Wi-Fi access points, fleet management and transit systems, and in equipment and devices for the IIoT.
Revenue growth in these markets is driven by the increased use of wireless communications and increased complexity occurring in these markets.
PCTEL antennas are primarily sold to original equipment manufacturer (“OEM”) providers where they are designed into the customer’s solution.
Competition in the antenna markets is fragmented.
Competitors include Airgain, Amphenol, Laird, Pulse, and Taoglas.
The Company seeks out product applications that command a premium for product performance and customer service, and it avoids commodity markets.
PCTEL maintains expertise in several technology areas in order to be competitive in the antenna market.
These include radio frequency engineering, mobile antenna design and manufacturing, mechanical engineering, product quality and testing, and wireless network engineering.
RF Solutions Segment
PCTEL RF Solutions provides test tools that improve the performance of wireless networks globally, with a focus on LTE, public safety, and emerging 5G technologies.
Network operators, neutral hosts, and equipment manufacturers rely on PCTEL’s scanning receivers and testing solutions to analyze, design, and optimize their networks.
Revenue growth is driven by the implementation and roll out of new wireless technology standards (i.e.
3G to 4G, 4G to 5G).
PCTEL test equipment is sold directly to wireless carriers or to OEMs who integrate the Company’s products into their solutions which are then sold to wireless carriers.
Competitors for PCTEL’s test tool products include OEMs such as Anritsu, Berkley Varitronics, Digital Receiver Technology, and Rohde and Schwarz.
PCTEL maintains expertise in several technology areas in order to be competitive in the test tool market.
These include radio frequency engineering, digital signal process engineering, manufacturing, mechanical engineering, product quality and testing, and wireless network engineering.
During the quarter ended June 30, 2017, the Company approved a plan to sell its Network Engineering Services business (“Engineering Services”) and shift its focus to research and development driven radio frequency (“RF”) products.
On July 31, 2017, the Company sold substantially all of the assets of the Company’s Engineering Services business to Gabe’s Construction Co., Inc. (“Gabe’s”) for a purchase price of $1.45 million.
The Engineering Services business provided design, testing, commissioning, optimization, and consulting services for cellular, Wi-Fi and public safety networks and was a reporting unit within the RF Solutions segment.
The disposition of Engineering Services qualified as a discontinued operation for reporting purposes due to the material significance of its historical results and because this disposition represented a strategic shift by the Company to focus on products.
As such, the Company reported the results of its Engineering Services business as discontinued operations beginning with the quarter ended June 30, 2017.
The Company restated the results of Engineering Services as discontinued operations for the three and six months ended June 30, 2017.
See Note 5 for more information on discontinued operations.
Basis of Consolidation
The unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements of the Company include the condensed consolidated balance sheet and the condensed consolidated statement of stockholders’ equity as of September 30, 2018, and the condensed consolidated statements of operations, statements of comprehensive (loss) income, and cash flows for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The interim condensed consolidated financial statements are unaudited and reflect all adjustments of a normal recurring nature that are, in the opinion of management, necessary for a fair presentation of the interim period financial statements.
The condensed consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2017 is derived from the audited financial statements as of December 31, 2017.
Certain amounts in the prior year have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
The unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements of the Company have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).
Accordingly, certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP have been condensed or omitted.
The significant accounting policies followed by the Company are set forth within the 2017 Form 10-K.
There were no changes in the Company’s significant accounting policies during the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
See Note 13 related to Revenue from Contracts with Customers for additional disclosures related to revenue policies.
In addition, the Company reaffirms the use of estimates in the preparation of the financial statements as set forth in the 2017 Form 10-K.
These unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the 2017 Form 10-K.
The results of operations for the period ended September 30, 2018 may not be indicative of the results for the period ending December 31, 2018.
Foreign Operations
The Company is exposed to foreign currency fluctuations due to its foreign operations and because products are sold internationally.
The functional currency for the Company’s foreign operations is predominantly the applicable local currency.
Accounts of foreign operations are translated into U.S. dollars using the exchange rate in effect at the applicable balance sheet date for assets and liabilities and average monthly rates prevailing during the period for revenue and expense accounts.
Adjustments resulting from translation are included in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income, a separate component of stockholders’ equity.
Gains and losses resulting from other transactions originally in foreign currencies and then translated into U.S. dollars are included in the condensed consolidated statement of operations.
Net foreign exchange gains (losses) resulting from foreign currency transactions included in other income,
net were $37 and $(45) for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Net foreign exchange gains (losses) resulting from foreign currency transactions included in other income, net were $28 and $(98) for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
In June 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update No.
2016-13 (“ASU 2016-13”) regarding ASC Topic 326, “Financial Instruments - Credit Losses,” which modifies the measurement of expected credit losses of certain financial instruments.
The amendments will be effective for the Company on January 1, 2020.
The Company is currently evaluating this guidance and the impact it will have on its consolidated financial statements.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (“Topic 842”), which amends existing guidance to require lessees to recognize assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for the rights and obligations created by long-term leases and to disclose additional quantitative and qualitative information about leasing arrangements.
Topic 842 also provides clarifications surrounding the presentation of the effects of leases in the income statement and statement of cash flows.
This guidance will be effective for the Company on January 1, 2019.
The Company has prepared a complete portfolio of its active leases and has developed a project plan to implement Topic 842.
The Company is currently evaluating key policy elections and considerations prompted by the standard.
The Company is in process of drafting an internal policy document to address the new standard requirements and is in process of evaluating the impact of the new lease accounting guidance on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
2.
Fair Value of Financial Instruments
The Company follows accounting guidance for fair value measurements and disclosures, which establishes a fair value hierarchy that requires the Company to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value.
Fair value is a market-based measurement that should be determined based on assumptions that market participants would use
Cash equivalents are measured at fair value and investments are recognized at amortized cost in the Company’s financial statements.
Accounts receivable and other investments are financial assets with carrying values that approximate fair value due to the short-term nature of these assets.
Accounts payable is a financial liability with a carrying value that approximates fair value due to the short-term nature of these liabilities.
3.
Earnings per Share
4.
Cash, Cash Equivalents and Investments
Cash and Cash Equivalents
At September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, cash and cash equivalents included bank balances and investments with original maturities less than 90 days.
At September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the Company’s cash equivalents were invested in highly liquid AAA rated money market funds that are required to comply with Rule 2a-7 of the Investment Company Act of 1940.
Such funds utilize the amortized cost method of accounting, seek to maintain a constant $1.00 per share price, and are redeemable upon demand.
The Company restricts its investments in AAA money market funds to those invested 100% in either short-term U.S. government agency securities or bank repurchase agreements collateralized by these same securities.
The fair values of these money market funds are established through quoted prices in active markets for identical assets (Level 1 inputs).
The Company’s cash in U.S. banks is insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation up to the insurable limit of $250.
The Company had $1.6 million and $1.2 million of cash and cash equivalents in foreign bank accounts at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.
Included in such amounts are cash of $1.4 million and $1.0 million in China bank accounts at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.
As of September 30, 2018, the Company has no intentions of repatriating the cash in its foreign bank accounts in China.
If the Company decides to repatriate the cash in the foreign bank accounts, it may experience difficulty in doing so in a timely manner.
The Company may also be exposed to foreign currency fluctuations and taxes if it repatriates these funds.
The Company is in process of liquidating its Israeli legal entity and will repatriate the cash net of taxes from the foreign bank account in Israel upon liquidation.
The Company accounted for the tax impact of the repatriation of the Israel cash in 2017.
The Company’s cash in its foreign bank accounts is not insured.
Investments
At September 30, 2018, the Company’s short-term investments consisted of U.S. government agency bonds, AA or higher rated corporate bonds, and certificates of deposit.
At December 31, 2017, the Company’s short-term investments consisted of pre-funded municipal bonds, U.S. government agency bonds, AA or higher rated corporate bonds, and certificates of deposit.
All of the investments at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017 were classified as held-to-maturity.
The bonds have original maturities greater than 90 days and mature in less than one year.
The Company’s bond investments are recorded at the purchase price and carried at amortized cost.
The income and principal from the pre-refunded municipal bonds were secured by an irrevocable trust of U.S. Treasury securities.
Approximately 8% of the Company’s municipal bond investments were protected by bond default insurance at December 31, 2017.
All of the municipal bonds matured during the quarter ended June 30, 2018.
The Company categorizes its financial instruments within a fair value hierarchy according to accounting guidance for fair value.
The fair value hierarchy is described under the Fair Value of Financial Instruments in Note 2.
For the Level 2 investments, the Company uses quoted prices of similar assets in active markets.
The fair values in the table above reflect net unrealized losses of $23 and $34 at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.
During the quarter ended June 30, 2017, the Company approved a plan to sell its Engineering Services business and shift its focus to research and development driven RF products.
On July 31, 2017, the Company sold its Engineering Services business to Gabe’s.
The Company filed a Form 8-K related to the disposition on August 4, 2017.
The disposition met the requirements for classification as held for sale during the quarter ended June 30, 2017 because the disposition met all the criteria outlined in the accounting guidance.
Due to the significance of the results during the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015, and 2014, and because this disposition represented a strategic shift by the Company to focus on products, the disposition of Engineering Services also qualified as a discontinued operation for reporting purposes.
As such, the Company reported the results of its Engineering Services business as discontinued operations for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2017.
There were no activities related to discontinued operations during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 other than transition services related to the billing for one customer.
The Company completed the transition for billing as of June 30, 2018.
The Company sold the fixed assets and backlog of the Engineering Services business to Gabe’s for $1.45 million.
At closing, the Company received $1.4 million, consisting of $1.3 million for the sale of the business and $0.1 million related to future services.
The Company recorded a pre-tax book gain of $0.5 million in discontinued operations during the quarter ended September 30, 2017.
The net pre-tax book gain included proceeds from the sale of assets minus the book value of the assets disposed as well as severance and related payroll benefits for terminated employees.
The book value of the assets was $0.6 million at the date of closing.
On August 1, 2017, the Company terminated 25 employees, and Gabe’s hired 11 of these employees.
The severance and related benefits for the terminated employees who were not subsequently hired by Gabe’s was $0.2 million.
The income tax gain was $0.3 million, which included the tax value of the fixed assets and the remaining tax value for intangible assets no longer being used by the Company as of the sale to Gabe’s.
The Company retained working capital of approximately $0.5 million, including accounts receivable, accounts payable, and accrued liabilities.
There was no impairment loss recorded on the disposal of the long-lived assets because the fair value of the assets less cost to sell was higher than the carrying value of the assets.
All the revenues and cost of revenues in discontinued operations related to services provided by the Company.
6.
Goodwill and Intangible Assets
Goodwill
There were no changes to goodwill during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018.
The $3.3 million of goodwill on the balance sheet relates to the RF Solutions segment.
There were no triggering events for the RF Solutions segment during the quarter ended September 30, 2018.
The Company will continue to monitor goodwill for impairment going forward.
Due to the Company’s reorganization in the third quarter 2018, its operations, engineering, business development, sales and marketing, and operational general and administrative functions were consolidated into a single enterprise-wide organizations.
Since there are no longer reportable segments, the Company will not disclose segment information starting with the Form-10K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
Beginning with the fourth quarter 2018, the Company will evaluate the goodwill based on the cash flows for the Test and Measurement product line.
The revenues and gross margins will be specifically identified, and the operating expenses will be a combination of direct expenses and allocated expenses.
The cash flows for Test and Measurement product line will only be prepared for testing goodwill and will not be reviewed by the Company’s CODM.
Intangible Assets
The Company amortizes intangible assets with finite lives on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives, which range from one to six years.
Amortization expense was approximately $0.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $0.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and $0.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017, respectively.
Amortization for technology assets is included in cost of revenues and amortization for all other intangible assets is included in operating expenses.
For the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, $0.1 million of the intangible asset amortization was included in operating expenses and $0.2 million of the amortization expense was included in cost of revenues.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, $0.3 million of the intangible asset amortization was included in operating expenses and $0.5 million of the amortization expense was included in cost of revenues.
The $0.8 million decrease in the net book value of intangible assets at September 30, 2018 compared to December 31, 2017 relates to amortization expense for the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
7.
Balance Sheet Information
Accounts Receivable
Accounts receivable are recorded at invoiced amounts with standard net terms that range between 30 and 90 days.
The Company extends credit to its customers based on an evaluation of a customer’s financial condition and collateral is generally not required.
The Company maintains an allowance for estimated uncollectible accounts receivable.
The allowance is based on the Company’s assessment of known delinquent accounts, historical experience, and other currently available evidence of the collectability and the aging of accounts receivable.
The Company’s allowance for doubtful accounts was $0.3 million at September 30, 2018 and at December 31, 2017.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market and include material, labor and overhead costs using the first-in, first-out method of costing.
Inventories as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017 were composed of raw materials, sub-assemblies, finished goods and work-in-process.
The Company had consigned inventory with customers of $0.7 million and $0.5 million at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.
The Company records allowances to reduce the value of inventory to the lower of cost or market, including allowances for excess and obsolete inventory.
Reserves for excess inventory are calculated based on our estimate of inventory in excess of normal and planned usage.
Obsolete reserves are based on our identification of inventory where the carrying value is above net realizable value.
The allowance for inventory losses was $3.1 million at September 30, 2018 and $3.0 million at December 31, 2017.
Prepaid and Other Current Assets
Prepaid assets are stated at cost and are amortized over the useful lives (up to one year) of the assets.
Property and Equipment
Property and equipment are stated at cost and are depreciated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets.
The Company depreciates computer equipment over three to five years, office equipment, manufacturing and test equipment, and motor vehicles over five years, furniture and fixtures over seven years, and buildings over 30 years.
Leasehold improvements are amortized over the shorter of the corresponding lease term or useful life.
Depreciation expense and gains and losses on the disposal of property and equipment are included in cost of sales and operating expenses in the condensed consolidated statements of operations.
Maintenance and repairs are expensed as incurred.
Depreciation and amortization expense was approximately $0.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Depreciation and amortization expense was approximately $2.1 million and $1.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Amortization for capital leases is included in depreciation and amortization expense.
See Note 10 for information related to capital leases.
Liabilities
The condensed consolidated statements of operations include $0.8 million and $0.7 million of stock compensation expense for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The condensed consolidated statements of operations include $2.6 million and $2.5 million of stock compensation expense for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The Company accounts for forfeitures as they occur.
Restricted Stock – Service Based
The Company grants restricted shares as employee and director incentives.
When service-based restricted stock is granted, the Company records deferred stock compensation within additional paid in capital, representing the fair value of the common stock on the date the restricted shares are granted.
The Company records stock compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the vesting period of the applicable service-based restricted shares.
These grants vest over various periods.
During the first quarter 2018, the Company issued 420,977 service-based restricted stock awards to employees that vest in equal annual increments over three years.
During the second quarter 2018, the Company issued 60,998 restricted stock awards to the board of directors that vested upon issuance.
The intrinsic value of service-based restricted shares that vested during the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 was $36 and $1.3 million, respectively.
The intrinsic value of service-based restricted shares that vested during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, and 2017 was $0.8 million and $2.5 million, respectively.
At September 30, 2018, total unrecognized compensation expense related to restricted stock was approximately $3.4 million to be recognized through 2021 over a weighted average period of 1.4 years.
Restricted Stock Units – Service Based
The Company grants restricted stock units as employee incentives.
Restricted stock units are primarily granted to foreign employees for long-term incentive purposes.
Employee restricted stock units are service-based awards and are amortized over the vesting period.
At the vesting date, these units are converted to shares of common stock.
The Company records expense on a straight-line basis for restricted stock units.
The intrinsic value of service-based restricted stock units that vested and were issued as shares during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 was $29 and $40, respectively.
No service-based restricted stock units vested during the three months ended September 30, 2018 or 2017.
As of September 30, 2018, the unrecognized compensation expense related to the unvested portion of the Company’s restricted stock units was approximately $0.1 million, to be recognized through 2021 over a weighted average period of 1.2 years.
Stock Options
The Company grants stock options to purchase common stock as long-term incentives.
The exercise price of the stock options is no less than the fair value of the Company’s stock on the grant date.
The stock options have a seven-year life and generally vest over a period of four years, 25% after one year, and ratably on a monthly basis thereafter.
Stock options may be exercised at any time prior
to their expiration date or within ninety days of termination of employment, or such shorter time as may be provided in the related stock option agreement.
The intrinsic value is based on the share price of $4.65 at September 30, 2018.
The fair value of each stock option outstanding was estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model.
The Black-Scholes option-pricing model was developed for use in estimating the fair value of traded options, which have no vesting restrictions and are fully transferable.
Because the Company’s employee stock options have characteristics significantly different
from those of traded options, and because changes in the subjective input assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate, the existing models may not necessarily provide a reliable single measure of the fair value of the employee stock options.
In addition, option valuation models require the input of highly subjective assumptions including the expected stock price volatility and expected option life.
The dividend yield rate was calculated by dividing the Company’s annual dividend by the closing price on the grant date.
The risk-free interest rate was based on the U.S. Treasury yields with a remaining term that approximates the expected life of the options granted.
The expected volatility was based on a five-year historical period of the Company’s stock price.
The expected life for options granted was based on historical data of employee exercise performance.
The Company records expense based on the graded vesting method.
As of September 30, 2018, the unrecognized compensation expense related to the unvested portion of the Company’s stock options was approximately $8, to be recognized through 2021 over a weighted average period of 1.3 years.
Performance-based Equity Awards
The Company had 95,500 and 110,500 unvested performance awards at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.
There were 15,000 cancelled performance awards during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 due to employee separations.
As of September 30, 2018, the Company does not expect any of the outstanding performance awards to vest.
Short-term incentive plan
Incentive awards earned by certain executives and key managers under the Company’s 2018 short-term incentive plan (“STIP”) will be settled 50% in cash and 50% in shares of the Company’s stock for certain executives.
The incentive awards for all other participants under the 2018 STIP will be 100% in cash.
All incentive awards earned under the 2017 STIP were paid in cash.
The Company has not recorded any expense related to the 2018 STIP because it does not believe that the performance thresholds will be met.
Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“ESPP”)
The ESPP enables eligible employees to purchase common stock at the lower of 85% of the fair market value of the common stock on the first or last day of each offering period.
Each offering period is approximately six months.
The Company received proceeds of $0.4 million from the issuance of 68,212 shares under the ESPP in February 2018 and received proceeds of $0.3 million from the issuance of 72,218 shares under the ESPP in February 2017.
The Company received proceeds of $0.3 million from the issuance of 88,583 shares under the ESPP in August 2018 and received proceeds of $0.3 million from the issuance of 67,383 shares under the ESPP in August 2017.
Based on the 15% discount and the fair value of the option feature of the ESPP, it is considered compensatory.
Compensation expense is calculated using the fair value of the employees’ purchase rights under the Black-Scholes model.
The dividend yield rate was calculated by dividing the Company’s annual dividend by the closing price on the grant date.
The risk-free interest rate was based on the U.S. Treasury yields with a remaining term that approximates the expected life of the options granted.
The volatility was based on a five-year historical period of the Company’s stock price.
The expected life was based on the offering period.
Board of Director Equity Awards
The Company grants shares of the Company’s stock under the PCTEL, Inc. Stock Plan to members of its Board of Directors as an annual retainer for committee service.
These awards vest upon issuance.
New directors receive a one-time grant that vests over three years.
In June, 2018, the Company issued 60,988 shares of the Company’s stock with a fair value of $0.4 million.
In June, 2017, the Company issued 52,786 shares of the Company’s stock with a fair value of $0.4 million.
Employee Withholding Taxes on Stock Awards
For ease in administering the issuance of stock awards, the Company holds back shares of vested restricted stock awards and short-term incentive plan stock awards for the value of the statutory withholding taxes.
For each individual receiving a share award, the Company redeems the shares it computes as the value for the withholding tax and remits this amount to the appropriate tax authority.
For withholding taxes related to stock awards, the Company paid $0.3 million and $1.2 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Employee Benefit Plans
The Company’s 401(k) plan covers all of the U.S. employees beginning the first day of the month following the first month of their employment.
Under this plan, employees may elect to contribute up to 15% of their current compensation to the 401(k) plan up to the statutorily prescribed annual limit.
The Company matches employee contributions up to 4%, and may also make discretionary contributions to the 401(k) plan.
The Company also contributes to various retirement plans for foreign employees.
10.
Commitments and Contingencies
Restructuring -Discontinued Operations
During the first quarter 2016, the Company exited from its Colorado office in order to consolidate facility space and recorded restructuring expense for the remaining obligations under the lease, net of proceeds for a sublease.
The Company signed a sublease for the office space in the second quarter 2017.
In July 2017, the Engineering Services business was sold to Gabe’s Construction.
The activity related to Engineering Services is reported as discontinued operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017.
The obligation for the Colorado lease was retained by the Company.
See Note 5 for additional information related to discontinued operations.
Operating Leases
The rent expense under leases was $0.3 million and $0.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018, and 2017, respectively, and was $0.8 million and $0.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
In August 2017, the Company executed a new seven-year lease for 5,977 square feet of office space in Akron, Ohio for wireless product development.
The annual lease obligation pursuant to the lease agreement is approximately $0.1 million.
The Company assumed occupancy of this office in March 2018.
In April 2018, the Company extended its lease of its first-floor facility space in Tianjin, China.
The total lease obligation pursuant to the lease agreement is approximately $0.1 million.
The lease expires in October 2020 which is consistent with the expiration for the second-floor facility lease.
During the first quarter 2016, the Company vacated its Colorado office lease in order to consolidate facility space related to our Engineering Services reporting unit.
In May 2017, the Company signed a sublease with a term through the lease termination date.
The lease expires on October 31, 2020.
See discussion related to the Colorado office in the restructuring section of this Note 10.
Capital Leases
Warranty Reserve and Sales Returns
The Company allows its major distributors and certain other customers to return unused product under specified terms and conditions.
The Company accrues for product returns based on historical sales and return trends.
The refund liability related to estimated sales returns was $0.2 million at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, and is included within accrued liabilities on the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheets.
The Company offers repair and replacement warranties of up to five years for certain antenna products and scanning receiver products.
The Company’s warranty reserve is based on historical sales and costs of repair and replacement trends.
The warranty reserve was $0.4 million at September 30, 2018 and at September 30, 2017, and is included in other accrued liabilities in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheets.
On December 22, 2017, the United States federal government enacted the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“Tax Act”), marking a change from a worldwide tax system to a modified territorial tax system in the United States.
As part of this change, the Tax Act provides for a transition tax on the accumulated unremitted foreign earnings and profits of foreign subsidiaries (“Transition Tax”), a reduction of the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from 34% to 21%, and an indefinite carryforward of net operating losses (“NOLs”) incurred in 2018 and future periods.
In response to the enactment of the Tax Act in late 2017, the SEC issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
118 (“SAB 118”) to address situations where the accounting is incomplete for certain income tax effects of the Tax Act at the time of issuance of an entity’s financial statements for the reporting period in which the Tax Act was enacted.
Under SAB 118, a company may record provisional amounts during a measurement period for specific income tax effects of the Tax Act for which the accounting is incomplete, but a reasonable estimate can be determined, and when unable to determine a reasonable estimate for any income tax effects, report provisional amounts in the first reporting period in which a reasonable estimate can be determined.
The measurement period should not extend beyond one year.
To determine the amount of the Transition Tax, the Company determined, in addition to other factors, the amount of post-1986 earnings and profits of relevant subsidiaries, as well as the amount of non-U.S. income taxes paid on such earnings.
At December 31, 2017, the Company recorded provisional income tax expense of $0.6 million related to the deemed repatriation of the accumulated unremitted earnings and profits of the Company’s foreign subsidiaries.
This provisional amount was based on information that was available at the time, including estimated tax earnings and profits from foreign subsidiaries.
In September 2018, the Company adjusted the accounting for the effects of the Transition Tax, in accordance with the guidance from the I.R.S., states, and other government agencies.
The Company recorded an adjustment of $0.1 million to deferred tax assets related to the Transition Tax for federal income taxes.
The Company plans to finalize the Transition Tax at December 31, 2018.
Because the Company’s 2017 taxable
loss was in excess of $2.5 million before the inclusion of the Section 965 Income, no cash was paid, and no installment payment plan is required.
The Tax Act also includes a provision designed to tax global intangible low taxed income (“GILTI”).
Under the provision, a U.S. shareholder is required to include in gross income the amount of its GILTI, which is generally the net income of its controlled foreign corporations in excess of a 10% return on depreciable tangible assets after identification of other income subject to non-deferral rules.
Under U.S. GAAP, the Company is allowed to make an accounting policy choice of either (1) treating taxes due on future U.S. inclusions in taxable income related to GILTI as a current-period expense when incurred (the "period cost method") or (2) factoring such amounts into the Company's measurement of its deferred taxes (the "deferred method").
Due to the complexity of the new GILTI tax rules and uncertainty of the application of the foreign tax credit rules in relation to GILTI, the Company is continuing to evaluate this provision of the Tax Act.
As of September 30, 2018, the Company does not expect to have a GILTI inclusion for 2018.
The Company recorded an income tax benefit of $0.5 million and $1.0 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively.
The benefit recorded for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 differed from the statutory rate of 21% because the Company did not record income tax benefits for losses with finite lives such as state net operating losses and due to permanent differences.
The Company recorded an income tax expense of $0.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017 and an income tax benefit of $0.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017.
The net tax benefit for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 differed from the statutory rate of 34% due to the combination of U.S. pretax losses and foreign pretax profits taxed at lower rates.
The net tax benefit for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 included a $0.2 million income tax benefit related to state rate and apportionment changes and a $0.1 million income tax benefit related to previously unrecognized tax benefits for research credits.
The Company had deferred tax assets net of deferred tax liabilities of $8.7 million and $7.7  million at September 30, 2018 and at December 31, 2017, respectively, virtually all of which are related to the United States tax jurisdiction.
The Company’s gross deferred tax assets consist of NOLs and credits as well as timing differences.
The Company’s NOLs and credits generated as of December 31, 2017 have a finite life primarily based on the 20-year carry forward of federal net operating losses.
The timing differences have a ratable reversal pattern over 12 years.
On a regular basis, the Company evaluates the recoverability of deferred tax assets and the need for a valuation allowance.
Such evaluations involve the application of significant judgment.
The Company considers multiple factors in its evaluation of the need for a valuation allowance.
The Company’s valuation allowance against its deferred tax assets was $5.4 million and $5.2 million at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.
For the deferred tax assets related to federal NOLs generated through 2017 research credits and all state NOLs, the Company believes that it is more likely than not that these deferred tax assets will not be realized based on the negative evidence of a cumulative three-year loss through September 30, 2018 and expiration of these NOLs.
The Company does not have a valuation allowance on its deferred tax assets related to timing differences or federal NOLs generated in 2018 because the losses can be carried forward indefinitely.
The analysis that the Company prepared to determine the valuation allowance required significant judgment and assumptions regarding future market conditions as well as forecasts for profits, taxable income, and taxable income by jurisdiction.
Due to the sensitivity of the analysis, changes to the assumptions in subsequent periods could have a material effect on the valuation allowance.
The Company’s gross unrecognized tax benefit was $0.7 million at September 30, 2018 and at December 31, 2017.
The Company files a consolidated federal income tax return, income tax returns with various states, and foreign income tax returns in various foreign jurisdictions.
The Company’s U.S. federal tax returns remain subject to examination for 2015 and subsequent periods.
The Company’s U.S. state tax returns remain subject to examination for 2012 and subsequent periods.
The Company’s foreign tax returns remain subject to examination for 2010 and subsequent periods.
12.
Segment, Customer and Geographic Information
In August 2018, the Company announced a reorganization of its organizational structure to drive growth and address the convergence in the industrial IoT, public safety, and 4G infrastructure markets and the emergence of new technologies such as 5G.
The Company’s operations, engineering, business development, sales and marketing, and operational general and administrative functions were consolidated into a single enterprise-wide organization.
Changes in the organizational structure that were initiated in the third quarter 2018 resulted in the CODM assessing operating profits and identified assets at the enterprise level for resource allocations.
All operating profit and cash flows are measured and managed at the total Company level.
Prior to the reorganization, PCTEL operated in two segments for reporting purposes, Connected Solutions and RF Solutions.
The Company’s CODM assessed operating profits and identified assets for the Connected Solutions and RF Solutions segments for resource allocations.
Each segment had its own segment manager as well as its own engineering, business development, sales and marketing, and operational general and administrative functions.
All of the Company’s accounting and finance, human resources, IT and legal functions are provided on a centralized basis through the corporate function.
The Company managed its balance sheet and
cash flows centrally at the corporate level, with the exception of trade accounts receivable and inventory which were managed at the segment level.
Each of the segment managers reported to and maintained regular contact with the CODM to discuss operating activities, financial results, forecasts, or plans for the segment.
Because the reorganization occurred during the third quarter 2018, this report has been prepared under the segment reporting structure that was in effect for all of 2017 and through August 2018.
Beginning with the Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, the Company will not report any segment information.
The Company will report revenue and gross profit for its two major product lines, Antenna Products and Test and Measurement Products.
The following table represents the customers that accounted for 10% or more of revenues during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017.
The following table represents the customer that accounted for 10% or more of total trade accounts receivable at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017.
13.
Revenue from Contracts with Customers
Under Topic 606, a contract with a customer is an agreement which both parties have approved, that creates enforceable rights and obligations, has commercial substance, and has identified payment terms, and for which collectability is probable.
Once the Company has entered into a contract, it is evaluated to identify performance obligations.
For each performance obligation, revenue is recognized as control of promised goods or services transfers to the customer in an amount that reflects the consideration the Company expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services.
The amount of revenue recognized takes into account variable consideration, such as returns and volume rebates.
A majority of the Company’s revenue is short cycle in nature with shipments within one year from order.
The Company's payment terms generally range between 30 to 90 days.
All of the Company’s revenue relates to contracts with customers.
The Company’s accounting contracts are from purchase orders or purchase orders combined with purchase agreements.
The majority of the Company’s revenue is recognized on a “point-in-time” basis and a nominal amount of revenue is recognized “over time”.
For the sale of antenna products and test and measurement products, the Company satisfies its performance obligations generally at the time of shipment, or upon delivery based on the contractual terms with its customers.
For products shipped on consignment, the Company recognizes revenue upon delivery from the consignment location.
For its test and measurement software tools, the Company has a performance obligation to provide software maintenance and support for one year.
The Company recognizes revenues for the maintenance and support over this period.
The Company considers shipping and handling performed by the Company as fulfillment activities.
Amounts billed for shipping and handling are included in revenues, while costs incurred for shipping and handling are included in cost of revenues.
The Company excludes taxes from the transaction price.
Cost of contracts include sales commissions.
The Company expenses the cost of contracts when incurred because the amortization period is one year or less.
The Company allows its major distributors and certain other customers to return unused product under specified terms and conditions.
The Company estimates product returns based on historical sales and return trends and records a corresponding refund liability.
The refund liability was $0.2 million at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, and is included within accrued liabilities on the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheets.
The December 31, 2017 refund liability was reclassified from accounts receivable to accrued liabilities for consistency with the current year presentation.
Additionally, the Company recorded an asset based on historical experience for the amount of product we expect to return to inventory as a result of the return, which is recorded in inventories in the condensed consolidated balance sheets.
The product return asset was $0.1 million at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017.
There were no contract assets at September 30, 2018 or December 31, 2017.
The Company records contract liabilities for deferred revenue and customer prepayments.
Contract liabilities are recorded in accrued liabilities in the condensed consolidated balance sheets.
The contract liability was $0.2 million and $0.3 million at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.
The Company recognized revenue of $0.1 million and $0.2 million during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, related to contract liabilities at the beginning of the period.
Item 1: Legal Proceedings
We are the subject of various pending or threatened legal actions in the ordinary course of our business.
All such matters are subject to many uncertainties and outcomes that are not predictable with assurance.
In our opinion, as of September 30, 2018, there were no claims or litigation pending that would be reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or liquidity.
Item 1A: Risk Factors
Conducting business in foreign countries involves additional financial, operating, and regulatory risks.
In the third quarter 2018, the Office of the United States Trade Representative (“USTR”) imposed duties on certain Chinese imports containing industrially significant technologies, including certain PCTEL antenna and antenna components, and there are additional tariffs under review.
Tariffs impact the gross margin that the Company earns on sales of its products and have necessitated price increases.
Furthermore, political uncertainty surrounding international trade disputes and protectionist measures may have a negative effect on customer confidence and spending.
The Company will continue to monitor and adjust prices as necessary and as market conditions permit.
The impact of the tariffs on the Company’s future revenue and profitability is uncertain.
