j2 Global, Inc., together with its subsidiaries (“j2 Global”, the “Company”, “our”, “us”, or “we”), is a leading provider of internet services. Through our Cloud Services business, we provide cloud services to consumers and businesses and license our intellectual property (“IP”) to third parties. In addition, the Cloud Services business includes fax, voice, backup, security and email marketing products. Our Digital Media business specializes in the technology, gaming, broadband, business to business (“B2B”), healthcare, and international markets, offering content, tools and services to consumers and businesses. 
The accompanying interim condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of j2 Global and its direct and indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries. All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
j2 Global reserves for receivables it may not be able to collect. The reserves for the Company’s Cloud Services business are typically driven by the volume of credit card declines and past due invoices and are based on historical experience as well as an evaluation of current market conditions. The reserves for the Company’s Digital Media business are typically driven by past due invoices based on historical experience. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates the adequacy of these reserves. 
j2 Global recognizes revenue when the Company satisfies its obligation by transferring control of the goods or services to its customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services (see Note 3 - Revenues). 
The Company determines whether revenue should be reported on a gross or net basis by assessing whether the Company is acting as the principal or an agent in the transaction. If the Company is acting as the principal in a transaction, the Company reports revenue on a gross basis. If the Company is acting as an agent in a transaction, the Company reports revenue on a net basis. 
j2 Global complies with the provisions of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) ASC Topic No. 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (“ASC 820”), in measuring fair value and in disclosing fair value measurements. ASC 820 provides a framework for measuring fair value and expands the disclosures required for fair value measurements of financial and non-financial assets and liabilities.
As of March 31, 2019, the carrying value of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, interest receivable, accounts payable, accrued expenses, interest payable, customer deposits and long-term debt are reflected in the financial statements at cost. With the exception of certain investments and long-term debt, cost approximates fair value due to the short-term nature of such instruments. The fair value of the Company’s outstanding debt was determined using the quoted market prices of available debt instruments with similar terms and maturities. As of the same dates, the carrying value of other long-term liabilities approximated fair value as the related interest rates approximate rates currently available to j2 Global.
The Company accounts for its investments in debt securities in accordance with ASC Topic No. 320, Investments - Debt Securities (“ASC 320”). Debt investments are typically comprised of corporate debt securities. j2 Global determines the appropriate classification of its investments at the time of acquisition and evaluates such determination at each balance sheet date. Trading securities are those investments that the Company intends to sell within a few hours or days and are carried at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses included in investment income. Available-for-sale debt securities are those investments j2 Global does not intend to hold to maturity and can be sold. Available-for-sale securities are carried at fair value with unrealized gains and losses included in other comprehensive income. Held-to-maturity securities are those investments which the Company has the ability and intent to hold until maturity and are recorded at amortized cost. All debt securities are accounted for on a specific identification basis.
The Company accounts for its investments in equity securities in accordance with ASC Topic No. 321, Investments - Equity Securities (“ASC 321”) which requires the accounting for equity investments (other than those accounted for using the equity method of accounting) generally be measured at fair value for equity securities with readily determinable fair values. For equity securities without a readily determinable fair value that are not accounted for by the equity method, the Company measures the equity security using cost, less impairment, if any, and plus or minus observable price changes arising from orderly transactions in the same or similar investment from the same issuer. Any unrealized gains or losses will be reported in current earnings (see Note 5 - Investments).
The Company recognizes its equity in the net earnings or losses relating to the investment in OCV on a one-quarter lag due to the timing and availability of financial information from OCV. If the Company becomes aware of a significant decline in value, the loss will be recorded in the period in which the Company identifies the decline.
Property and equipment are stated at cost. Equipment under capital leases is stated at the present value of the minimum lease payments. Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. The estimated useful lives of property and equipment range from 1 to 10 years. Fixtures, which are comprised primarily of leasehold improvements and equipment under capital leases, are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives or for leasehold improvements, the related lease term, if less. The Company has capitalized certain internal use software and website development costs which are included in property and equipment. The estimated useful life of costs capitalized is evaluated for each specific project and ranges from 1 to 5 years.
j2 Global measures the contingent earn-out liabilities in connection with acquisitions at fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable inputs classified within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy (see Note 6 - Fair Value Measurements). The Company may use various valuation techniques depending on the terms and conditions of the contingent consideration including a Monte-Carlo simulation. This simulation uses a probability distribution for each significant input to produce hundreds or thousands of possible outcomes and the results are analyzed to determine probabilities of different outcomes occurring. Significant increases or decreases to these inputs in isolation would result in a significantly higher or lower liability with a higher liability capped by the contractual maximum of the contingent earn-out obligation. Ultimately, the liability will be equivalent to the amount paid, and the difference between the fair value estimate and the amount paid will be recorded in earnings. The amount paid that is less than or equal to the liability on the acquisition date is reflected as cash used in financing activities in our consolidated statements of cash flows. Any amount paid in excess of the liability on the acquisition date is reflected as cash used in operating activities.
Certain prior year reported amounts have been reclassified to conform to the 2019 presentation.
is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software (and hosting arrangements that include an internal-use software). The amendments in this ASU require an entity (customer) in a hosting arrangement that is a service to (1) determine which implementation costs to capitalize as an asset related to the service contract and which costs to expense; (2) expense the capitalized implementation costs of a hosting arrangement that is a service contract over the term of the hosting arrangement; (3) apply the existing impairment guidance to the capitalized implementation costs as if the costs were long-lived assets; (4) present the expense related to the capitalized implementation costs in the same line item in the statement of income as the fees associated with the hosting element (service) of the arrangement and classify payments for capitalized implementation costs in the statement of cash flows in the same manner as payments made for fees associated with the hosting arrangements; and (5) present the capitalized implementation costs in the statement of financial position in the same line item that a prepayment for the fees of the associated hosting arrangement would be presented. This ASU is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2019. The Company is currently evaluating the effect of this ASU on its financial statements and related disclosures.
Digital Media revenues are earned primarily from the delivery of advertising services, from subscriptions to services, data and information, and from licensing.
Revenue from subscriptions is earned through the granting of access to, or delivery of, data products or services to customers. Subscriptions cover video games and related content, health information, data and other copyrighted material. Revenues under such agreements are recognized over the contract term for use of the service. Revenues are also earned from listing fees, subscriptions to online publications, and from other sources. Subscription revenues are recognized over time.
j2 Global generates Digital Media revenues through the license of certain assets to clients. Assets are licensed for clients’ use in their own promotional materials or otherwise. Such assets may include logos, editorial reviews, or other copyrighted material. Revenues under such license agreements are recognized over the contract term for use of the asset. Technology assets are also licensed to clients. These assets are recognized over the term of the access period. The Digital Media business also generates revenue from other sources which include marketing and production services. Such other revenues are generally recognized over the period in which the products or services are delivered. 
j2 Global also generates Digital Media revenues from transactions involving the sale of perpetual software licenses, related software support and maintenance, hardware used in conjunction with its software, and other related services. Revenue is recognized for these software transactions with multiple performance obligations after (i) the Company has had an approved contract and is committed to perform the respective obligations and (ii) the Company can identify and quantify each obligation and its respective selling price. Once the respective performance obligations have been identified and quantified, revenue will be recognized when the obligations are met, either over time or at a point in time depending on the nature of the obligation.
Revenues from software license performance obligations are generally recognized upfront at the point in time that the software is made available to the customer to download and use. Revenues for related software support and maintenance performance obligations are related to technical support provided to customers as needed and unspecified software product upgrades, maintenance releases and patches during the term of the support period when they are available. The Company is obligated to make the support services available continuously throughout the contract period. Therefore, revenues for support contracts are generally recognized ratably over the contractual period the support services are provided. Hardware product and related software performance obligations, such as an operating system or firmware, are highly interdependent and interrelated and are accounted for as a bundled performance obligation. The revenues for this bundled performance obligation are generally recognized at the point in time that the hardware and software products are delivered and ownership is transferred to the customer. Other service revenues are generally recognized over time as the services are performed.
networks, (ii) through the Company’s lead-generation business and (iii) through the Company’s subscriptions. The Company records revenue on a net basis with respect to revenue paid to the Company by certain third-party advertising networks who serve online display and video advertising across the Company’s owned-and-operated web properties and certain third-party sites.
The Company’s Cloud Services revenues substantially consist of monthly recurring subscription and usage-based fees, which are primarily paid in advance by credit card. The Company defers the portions of monthly, quarterly, semi-annually and annually recurring subscription and usage-based fees collected in advance of the satisfaction of performance obligations and recognizes them in the period earned. 
Along with our numerous proprietary Cloud Services solutions, the Company also generates revenues by reselling various third-party solutions, primarily through our email security and online backup lines of business. These third-party solutions, along with our proprietary products, allow the Company to offer customers a variety of solutions to better meet their needs. The Company records revenue on a gross basis with respect to reseller revenue because the Company has control of the specified good or service prior to transferring control to the customer. 
The Cloud Services business also generates revenues by licensing certain technology to third parties. Generally, revenue is recognized over time as the third party uses the licensed technology over the period.
The Company adopted ASU 2014-09 and its related standard updates in January 2018 using a modified-retrospective approach with the cumulative effect of initially applying the Update recognized at the date of application in retained earnings. The change in accounting principle in the first quarter of 2018 resulted in an adjustment to the Company’s retained earnings of $1.6 million (see Condensed Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity).
The Company has recorded $53.2 million and $38.9 million of revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, which was previously included in the contract liability balance as of the beginning of the each respective year. 
As of March 31, 2019, the Company acquired $3.6 million of deferred revenue in connection with the Company’s business acquisitions (see Note 4 - Business Acquisitions) which are subject to purchase accounting adjustments.
The Company’s contracts with customers may include multiple performance obligations. For such arrangements, revenues are allocated to each performance obligation based on its relative standalone selling price. 
The Company satisfies its performance obligations within the Digital Media business upon delivery of services to its customers. In addition, the Company provides content to its advertising partners which the Company sells to its partners’ customer base and receives a revenue share based on the terms of the agreement. 
The Company satisfies its performance obligations within the Cloud Services business upon delivery of services to its customers. Payment terms vary by type and location of our customers and the services offered. The term between invoicing and when payment is due is not significant. Due to the nature of the services provided, there are no obligations for returns.
In determining whether products and services are considered distinct performance obligations that should be accounted for separately versus together may require significant judgment. Judgment is also required to determine the standalone selling price for each distinct performance obligation. 
The Company has concluded revenue is recognized based on delivery of services over the contract period for advertising and on a straight-line basis over the contract period for subscriptions. The Company believes that the methods described are a faithful depiction of the transfer of goods and services.
The Company has concluded that the best measure of progress toward the complete satisfaction of the performance obligation over time is a time-based measure. The Company recognizes revenue on a straight-line basis throughout the subscription period and believes that the method used is a faithful depiction of the transfer of goods and services. 
The Company’s Digital Media business has technology subscriptions that have standalone functionality. As a result, they are considered to be functional intellectual property where the performance obligations are satisfied at a point in time. This is evidenced once a digital key is delivered to the customer. Once the key is delivered to the customer, the customer has full control of the technology and the Company has no further performance obligations. The Company has concluded that revenue is recognized once the digital key is delivered. The Company believes that this method is a faithful depiction of the transfer of goods and services.
As a practical expedient, the Company has not assessed whether a contract has a significant financing component because the Company expects at contract inception that the period between payment by the customer and the transfer of promised goods or services by the Company to the customer will be one year or less. In addition, the Company has determined that the payment terms that the Company provides to its customers are structured primarily for reasons other than the provision of finance to the Company. The Company typically charges a single upfront amount for the services because other payment terms would affect the nature of the risk assumed by the Company to provide service given the costs of the customer acquisition and the highly competitive and commoditized nature of the business we operate which allows customers to easily move from one provider to another. This additional risk may make it uneconomical to provide the service.
The Company has applied the practical expedient for certain revenue streams to exclude the value of remaining performance obligations for (i) contracts with an original expected term of one year or less or (ii) contracts for which the Company recognizes revenue in proportion to the amount it has the right to invoice for services performed.
The Company uses acquisitions as a strategy to grow its customer base by increasing its presence in new and existing markets, expand and diversify its service offerings, enhance its technology, and acquire skilled personnel.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019, the Company recorded adjustments to the initial working capital related to prior period acquisitions in the Digital Media business, which resulted in a net decrease in goodwill of $1.5 million (see Note 7 - Goodwill and Intangible Assets). Such adjustments had an immaterial impact on the amortization expense within the condensed consolidated statement of income for the three months ended March 31, 2019.
Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and represents intangible assets that do not qualify for separate recognition. Goodwill recognized associated with these acquisitions during the three months ended March 31, 2019 is $37.4 million, of which $33.2 million is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
Investments consist of equity and debt securities. 
During the year ended December 31, 2018, the Company recorded an unrealized losses to earnings because an observable price for a similar instrument was observed in the market at an amount that was below the original carrying price of the investment (see Note 6 - Fair Value Measurements).
Regardless of the classification of the debt securities as available-for-sale or held-to-maturity, the Company has assessed each position for impairment. j2 Global regularly reviews and evaluates each investment that has an unrealized loss. An unrealized loss exists when the current fair value of an individual security is less than its amortized cost basis. Unrealized losses that are determined to be temporary in nature are recorded, net of tax, in accumulated other comprehensive income for available-for-sale securities.
•the Company’s ability and intent to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery.
•information provided by third-party valuation experts.
For these debt securities, a critical component of the evaluation for other-than-temporary impairments is the identification of credit impairment, where management does not expect to receive cash flows sufficient to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the security. Credit impairment is assessed using a combination of a discounted cash flow model that estimates the cash flows on the underlying securities and a market comparable method, where the security is valued based upon indications from the secondary market of what discounts buyers demand when purchasing similar securities. The cash flow model incorporates actual cash flows from the securities through the current period and then projects the remaining cash flows using relevant interest rate curves over the remaining term. These cash flows are discounted using a number of assumptions, some of which include prevailing implied credit risk premiums, incremental credit spreads and illiquidity risk premiums, among others.
Securities that have been identified as other-than-temporarily impaired are written down to their current fair value. For debt securities that are intended to be sold or that management believes it more-likely-than-not that it will be required to sell prior to recovery, the full impairment is recognized immediately in earnings.
For available-for-sale and held-to-maturity debt securities that management has no intent to sell and believes that it more-likely-than-not that it will not be required to sell prior to recovery, only the credit loss component of the impairment is recognized in earnings, while the rest of the fair value impairment is recognized in other comprehensive income. The credit loss component recognized in earnings is identified as the amount of principal cash flows not expected to be received over the remaining term of the security.
As of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, we did not recognize any other-than-temporary impairment losses.
On September 25, 2017, the Company entered into a commitment to invest $200 million (approximately 66.7% of equity) in the OCV Fund. The total expected commitment to the OCV Fund is expected to be approximately $300 million. The primary purpose of the Fund is to provide a limited number of select investors with the opportunity to realize long-term appreciation from public and private companies, with a particular focus on the technology and life science industries. The general activities of the OCV Fund is to buy, sell, hold and otherwise invest in securities of every kind and nature and rights and options with respect thereto, including, without limitation, stock, notes, bonds, debentures and evidence of indebtedness; to exercise all rights, powers, privileges and other incidents of ownership or possession with respect to securities held or owned by the OCV Fund; to enter into, make and perform all contracts and other undertakings; and to engage in all activities and transactions as may be necessary, advisable or desirable to carry out the foregoing.
During 2019, the Company received capital call notices from the management of OCV Management, LLC. for $9.8 million, inclusive of certain management fees, of which $9.8 million has been paid for the three months ended March 31, 2019. 
The Company recognizes its equity in the net earnings or losses relating to the investment in OCV on a one-quarter lag due to the timing and availability of financial information from OCV. If the Company becomes aware of a significant decline in value, the loss will be recorded in the period in which the Company identifies the decline.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, the Company recognized an investment loss of $0.5 million and zero, net of tax benefit, respectively. During the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, the Company recognized management fees of $0.8 million and zero, net of tax benefit, respectively. The loss is presented in the Company’s condensed consolidated statement of income as loss from equity investments, net.
As a limited partner, the Company’s maximum exposure to loss is limited to its proportional ownership in the partnership. In addition, the Company is not required to contribute capital in an aggregate amount in excess of its capital commitment and any expected losses will not be in excess of the Capital Account. Finally, there are no call or put options, or other types of arrangements, which limit the Company’s ability to participate in losses and returns of the Fund.
 §Level 1 – Observable inputs that reflect quoted prices (unadjusted) for identical assets or liabilities in active markets.
 §Level 2 – Observable inputs other than quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities, quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in inactive markets, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.
 §Level 3 – Unobservable inputs which are supported by little or no market activity.
The fair value hierarchy also requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value.
The fair value of our senior notes is determined using quoted market prices or dealer quotes for instruments with similar maturities and other terms and credit ratings, which are Level 2 inputs. The fair value of long-term debt at March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018 was $1.2 billion and $1.1 billion, respectively (see Note 8 - Long-Term Debt).
The Company classifies its contingent consideration liability in connection with acquisitions within Level 3 because factors used to develop the estimated fair value are unobservable inputs, such as volatility and market risks, and are not supported by market activity. The fair value of the contingent consideration liability was determined using option based approaches. This methodology was utilized because the distribution of payments is not symmetric and amounts are only payable upon certain earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”) thresholds being reached. Such valuation approach included a Monte-Carlo simulation for the contingency since the financial metric driving the payments is path dependent. For similar reasons, certain of the Company’s available-for-sale debt securities are classified within Level 3. The fair value of these debt securities was derived using a hybrid approach consisting of two scenarios and subsequent allocation among each of the outstanding securities. Both scenarios consider unobservable inputs in the market such as time to liquidity, volatility, dividend 
At the end of each reporting period, management reviews the inputs to the fair value measurements of financial and non-financial assets and liabilities to determine when transfers between levels are deemed to have occurred. For the three months ended March 31, 2019, there were no transfers that have occurred between levels.
In connection with the acquisition of Humble Bundle, on October 13, 2017, contingent consideration of up to an aggregate of $40.0 million may be payable upon achieving certain future EBITDA thresholds and had a fair value of $40.0 million and $40.0 million at March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively. Due to the Company’s achievement of certain EBITDA targets for the year ended December 31, 2018 and due to the amended contingent consideration agreement, $40.0 million is payable and is classified as a current liability on the consolidated balance sheet.
In connection with the acquisition of bestblackfriday.com, on July 13, 2018, contingent consideration of up to an aggregate of $2.0 million may be payable upon achieving a certain number of visitors and had a fair value of $1.5 million and $1.5 million at March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.
In connection with the acquisition of DemandShore, on July 19, 2018, contingent consideration of up to an aggregate of $1.9 million may be payable upon achieving certain future EBITDA and revenue thresholds and had a fair value of $1.3 million and $1.3 million at March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.
In connection with the acquisition of DownDetector, on August 9, 2018, contingent consideration of up to an aggregate of $3.7 million may be payable upon achieving certain number of average monthly unique visitors thresholds and had a fair value of $2.8 million and $3.6 million at March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively. In connection with achieving certain visitor thresholds, contingent consideration of $0.8 million was paid to the seller during the first quarter of 2019 in connection with this acquisition.
In connection with the acquisition of Ekahau Inc., on October 10, 2018, contingent consideration of up to an aggregate of $15.0 million may be payable upon achieving certain future revenue thresholds and had a fair value of $8.6 million and $3.7 million at March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.
In connection with the acquisition of Safe Send AS, on March 29, 2019, contingent consideration of up to an aggregate of $1.0 million may be payable upon achieving certain future revenue thresholds and had a fair value of $1.0 million at March 31, 2019. 
During the three months ended March 31, 2019, the Company recorded an increase in the fair value of the contingent consideration of $5.0 million and reported such increase in general and administrative expenses.
Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired in a business combination. Intangible assets resulting from the acquisitions of entities accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting are recorded at the estimated fair value of the assets acquired. Identifiable intangible assets are comprised of purchased customer relationships, trademarks and trade names, developed technologies and other intangible assets. The fair values of these identified intangible assets are based upon expected future cash flows or income, which take into consideration certain assumptions such as customer turnover, trade names and patent lives. These determinations are primarily based upon the Company’s historical experience and expected benefit of each intangible asset. If it is determined that such assumptions are not accurate, then the resulting change will impact the fair value of the intangible asset. Identifiable intangible assets are amortized over the period of estimated economic benefit, which ranges from one to 20 years. 
Amortization expense, included in general and administrative expense, approximated $37.3 million and $33.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Amortization expense is estimated to approximate $137.1 million, $95.0 million, $64.4 million, $42.9 million and $34.5 million for the remaining nine months of fiscal year 2019 through fiscal year 2023, respectively, and $107.9 million thereafter through the duration of the amortization period.
On June 27, 2017, j2 Cloud Services, LLC (“j2 Cloud”) and j2 Cloud Co-Obligor (the “Co-Issuer” and together with j2 Cloud, the “Issuers”), wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Company, completed the issuance and sale of $650 million aggregate principal amount of their 6.0% senior notes due in 2025 (the “6.0% Senior Notes”) in a private placement offering exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933. The 6.0% Senior Notes are presented as long-term debt, net of deferred issuance costs, on the condensed consolidated balance sheets as of March 31, 2019. 
The 6.0% Senior Notes bear interest at a rate of 6.0% per annum, payable semi-annually in arrears on January 15 and July 15 of each year, commencing on January 15, 2018. The 6.0% Senior Notes mature on July 15, 2025, and are senior unsecured obligations of the Issuers and are guaranteed on an unsecured basis by certain subsidiaries of j2 Cloud (as defined in the Indenture agreement dated June 27, 2017, the “Indenture”). If j2 Cloud or any of its restricted subsidiaries acquires or creates a domestic restricted subsidiary, other than an insignificant subsidiary (as defined in the Indenture), after the issue date, or any insignificant subsidiary ceases to fit within the definition of insignificant subsidiary, such restricted subsidiary is required to unconditionally guarantee, jointly and severally, on an unsecured basis, the Issuers’ obligations under the 6.0% Senior Notes.
The Indenture contains certain restrictive and other covenants applicable to j2 Cloud and subsidiaries designated as restricted subsidiaries including, but not limited to, restrictions on (i) paying dividends or making distributions on j2 Cloud’s membership interests or repurchasing j2 Cloud’s membership interests; (ii) making certain restricted payments; (iii) creating liens or entering into sale and leaseback transactions; (iv) entering into transactions with affiliates; (v) merging or consolidating with another company; and (vi) transferring and selling assets. These covenants include certain exceptions. Violation of these covenants could result in a default which could result in the acceleration of outstanding amounts if such default is not cured or waived within the time periods outlined in the Indenture. Restricted payments, specifically dividend payments, are applicable only if j2 Cloud and subsidiaries designated as restricted subsidiaries has a leverage ratio of greater than 3.0 to 1.0. In addition, if such leverage ratio is in excess of 3.0 to 1.0, the restriction on restricted payments is subject to various exceptions, including an exception for the payment of restricted payments up to $75 million. These contractual provisions did not, as of March 31, 2019, restrict j2 Cloud’s ability to pay dividends to j2 Global, Inc. The company is in compliance with its debt covenants as of March 31, 2019.
As of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the estimated fair value of the 6.0% Senior Notes was approximately $677.6 million and $645.5 million, respectively, and was based on the quoted market prices of debt instruments with similar terms, credit rating and maturities of the 6.0% Senior Notes which are Level 2 inputs (see Note 6 - Fair Value Measurements).
As of March 31, 2019, the conversion rate is 14.7316 shares of j2 Global common stock for each $1,000 principal amount of Convertible Notes, which represents a conversion price of approximately $67.88 per share of j2 Global common stock. The conversion rate is subject to adjustment for certain events as set forth in the indenture governing the Convertible Notes, but will not be adjusted for accrued interest. In addition, following certain corporate events that occur on or prior to June 20, 2021, j2 Global will increase the conversion rate for a holder that elects to convert its Convertible Notes in connection with such a corporate event.
Holders have the right to require j2 Global to repurchase for cash all or part of their Convertible Notes on each of June 15, 2021 and June 15, 2024 at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Convertible Notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the relevant repurchase date. In addition, if a fundamental change, as defined in the indenture governing the Convertible Notes, occurs prior to the maturity date, holders may require j2 Global to repurchase for cash all or part of their Convertible Notes at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Convertible Notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the fundamental change repurchase date.
In accordance with ASC 470-20, Debt with Conversion and Other Options, convertible debt that can be settled for cash is required to be separated into the liability and equity component at issuance, with each component assigned a value. The value assigned to the liability component is the estimated fair value, as of the issuance date, of similar debt without the conversion feature. The difference between the cash proceeds and estimated fair value of the liability component, representing the value of the conversion premium assigned to the equity component, is recorded as a debt discount on the issuance date. This debt discount is amortized to interest expense using the effective interest method over the period from the issuance date through the first stated repurchase date on June 15, 2021.
The Convertible Notes are carried at face value less any unamortized debt discount and debt issuance costs. The fair value of the Convertible Notes at each balance sheet date is determined based on recent quoted market prices or dealer quotes for the Convertible Notes, which are Level 1 inputs (see Note 6 - Fair Value Measurements). If such information is not available, the fair value is determined using cash-flow models of the scheduled payments discounted at market interest rates for comparable debt without the conversion feature. As of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the estimated fair value of the Convertible Notes was approximately $539.1 million and $457.0 million, respectively.
j2 Global leases certain facilities and equipment under non-cancelable operating and finance leases which expire at various dates through 2026. Office and equipment leases are typically for terms of three to five years and generally provide renewal options for terms up to an additional five years. Some of the Company’s leases include options to terminate within one year.
In certain agreements in which the Company leases office space where the Company is the tenant, it subleases the site to various other companies through a sublease agreement. 
Upon adoption of ASU 2016-02 and its related Updates, the Company recorded approximately $72.0 million of right-of-use assets and approximately $75.0 million of operating lease liabilities. 
Total sublease income for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 was $0.9 million and $0.6 million, respectively. Total estimated aggregate sublease income to be received in the future is $7.7 million.
The lease term is generally the minimum noncancelable period of the lease. The Company does not include option periods unless the Company determined it is reasonably certain of exercising the option at inception or when a triggering event occurs.
On February 17, 2011, Emmanuel Pantelakis (“Pantelakis”) filed suit against a j2 Global affiliate in the Ontario Superior Court of Justice (No. 11-50673), alleging that the j2 Global affiliate breached a contract relating to Pantelakis’s use of the 
Campaigner service. The j2 Global affiliate filed a responsive pleading on March 23, 2011 and responses to undertakings on July 16, 2012. On November 6, 2012, Pantelakis filed a second amended statement of claim, reframing his lawsuit as a negligence action. The j2 Global affiliate filed an amended statement of defense on April 8, 2013. Discovery has closed. A judicial pre-trial conference took place on September 27, 2018. There is an anticipated trial date of January 2020.
On January 7, 2019, j2 Cloud Services, LLC entered into a Credit Agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) with certain lenders from time to time party thereto (collectively, the “Lenders”) and MUFG Union Bank, N.A., as sole lead arranger and as administrative agent for the Lenders (the “Agent”). Pursuant to the Credit Agreement, the Lenders have provided j2 Cloud Services with a credit facility of $100.0 million (the “Credit Facility”) with an option to request an increase of up to $50.0 million. The proceeds of the Credit Facility are intended to be used for working capital and general corporate purposes of j2 Cloud and its subsidiaries, including to finance certain permitted acquisitions and capital expenditures in accordance with the terms of the Credit Agreement. As of March 31, 2019, the Company had not drawn on the Credit Facility. 
The final maturity of the Credit Facility will occur on January 7, 2024. j2 Cloud is permitted to make voluntary prepayments of the Credit Facility at any time without payment of a premium or penalty. 
The obligations under the Credit Facility and certain cash management and hedging obligations are and will be fully and unconditionally guaranteed by certain of j2 Cloud’s existing and subsequently acquired or organized direct and indirect domestic subsidiaries pursuant to a guarantee agreement and secured by a lien on the equity interests of certain of j2 Cloud’s foreign subsidiaries.
The Company has capitalized the total of $0.4 million in debt issuance costs, which are being amortized to interest expense over the life of the Credit Facility. As of March 31, 2019, these debt issuance costs, net of amortization, were $0.4 million. The related interest expense was zero for the three months ended March 31, 2019.
The Company’s tax provision for interim periods is determined using an estimate of the Company’s annual effective tax rate adjusted for discrete interim period tax impacts. Each quarter the Company updates its estimated annual effective tax rate and, if the estimate changes, makes a cumulative adjustment. The Company’s effective tax rate was (0.9)% and 27.1% for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Income before income taxes included income from domestic operations of $2.5 million and $(8.7) million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and income from foreign operations of $30.1 million and $34.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Cash paid for income taxes net of refunds received was $6.7 million and $5.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
In February 2012, the Company’s Board of Directors approved a program authorizing the repurchase of up to five million shares of our common stock through February 20, 2013 (the “2012 Program”) which was subsequently extended through February 20, 2020. On November 29, 2018, the Company entered into a Rule 10b5-1 trading plan with a broker to facilitate the repurchase program. 600,000 shares were repurchased under the share repurchase program in 2018 at an aggregate cost of $42.5 million and were subsequently retired in March 2019. During the three month period ended March 31, 2019, the Company repurchased zero shares under this program. Cumulatively at March 31, 2019, 2.7 million shares were repurchased at an aggregate cost of $101.1 million (including an immaterial amount of commission fees).
As a result of the purchase of j2 Global common stock through the Company’s share repurchase program, the number of shares available for purchase under the 2012 Program is 1,338,689 shares of j2 Global common stock. 
Periodically, participants in j2 Global’s stock plans surrender to the Company shares of j2 Global stock to pay the exercise price or to satisfy tax withholding obligations arising upon the exercise of stock options or the vesting of restricted stock. During the three month period ended March 31, 2019, the Company purchased 16,400 shares from plan participants for this purpose.
13.Stock Options and Employee Stock Purchase Plan
The 2007 Plan provides for the granting of incentive stock options, nonqualified stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units and other share-based awards. 4,500,000 shares of j2 Global common stock are authorized to be used for 2007 Plan purposes. Options under the 2007 Plan may be granted at exercise prices determined by the Board of Directors, provided that the exercise prices shall not be less than the fair market value of j2 Global’s common stock on the date of grant for incentive stock options and not less than 85% of the fair market value of j2 Global’s common stock on the date of grant for non-statutory stock options. As of March 31, 2019, 129,239 shares underlying options and 3,080 shares of restricted units were outstanding under the 2007 Plan. The 2007 Plan terminated on February 14, 2017.
The 2015 Plan provides for the granting of incentive stock options, nonqualified stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance shares, performance share units and other share-based awards and is intended as a successor plan to the 2007 Plan since no further grants will be made under the 2007 Plan. 4,200,000 shares of j2 Global common stock are authorized to be used for 2015 Plan purposes. Options under the 2015 Plan may be granted at exercise prices determined by the Board of Directors, provided that the exercise prices shall not be less than the higher of the par value or 100% of the fair market value of j2 Global’s common stock subject to the option on the date the option is granted. As of March 31, 2019, 423,000 shares underlying options and 37,312 shares of restricted stock units were outstanding under the 2015 Plan.
All stock option grants are approved by “outside directors” within the meaning of Internal Revenue Code Section 162(m).
The total intrinsic values of options exercised during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 were $8.0 million and $1.5 million, respectively.
The Company recognized $0.2 million and $0.2 million of compensation expense related to stock options for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. As of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, unrecognized stock compensation related to non-vested stock options granted under each of the share-based compensation plans approximated $7.6 million and $6.9 million, respectively. Unrecognized stock compensation expense related to non-vested stock options granted under these plans is expected to be recognized ratably over a weighted-average period of 6.6 years (i.e., the remaining requisite service period).
j2 Global has awarded restricted stock and restricted stock units to its Board of Directors and senior staff pursuant to certain share-based compensation plans. Compensation expense resulting from restricted stock and restricted unit grants is measured at fair value on the date of grant and is recognized as share-based compensation expense over the applicable vesting period. Vesting periods are approximately one year for awards to members of the Company’s Board of Directors, five years for senior staff (excluding market-based awards discussed below) and eight years for the Chief Executive Officer. 
The Company recognized $4.5 million and $6.2 million of compensation expense related to restricted stock and restricted stock units for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. As of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the Company had unrecognized share-based compensation cost of approximately $63.9 million and $61.6 million, respectively, associated with these awards. This cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 5.4 years for awards and 3.4 years for units.
j2 Global determined that a plan provision exists which allows for the more favorable of two exercise prices, commonly referred to as a “look-back” feature. The purchase price discount and the look-back feature cause the Purchase Plan to be compensatory and the Company to recognize compensation expense. The compensation cost is recognized on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period. The Company used the Black-Scholes option pricing model to calculate the estimated fair value of the purchase right issued under the ESPP. The expected volatility is based on historical volatility of the Company’s common stock. The risk-free interest rate is based on U.S. Treasury zero-coupon issues with a term equal to the expected term of the option assumed at the date of grant. The Company uses an annualized dividend yield based upon the per share dividends declared by its Board of Directors. Estimated forfeiture rates were 1.96% as of March 31, 2019.
For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, zero and 851 shares were purchased under the Purchase Plan, respectively. Cash received upon the issuance of j2 Global common stock under the Purchase Plan was zero and $65,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. As of March 31, 2019, 1,589,981 shares were available under the Purchase Plan for future issuance.
The Company recognized $0.4 million and zero of compensation expense related to the Purchase Plan for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, there were zero options outstanding, respectively, which were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share because the exercise prices were greater than the average market price of the common stock.
16.Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income
On May 2, 2019, the Company’s Board of Directors approved a quarterly cash dividend of $0.4550 per share of j2 Global common stock payable on June 4, 2019 to all stockholders of record as of the close of business on May 20, 2019. Based on the significant number of current investment opportunities within the Company’s portfolio of businesses and the historic returns from prior investments, the Board of Directors has decided to suspend dividend payments for the foreseeable future after the June 4, 2019 payment.
See Note 10 – Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1) for information regarding certain legal proceedings in which we are involved.
Item 1A. Risk Factors
