j2 Global, Inc., together with its subsidiaries (“j2 Global”, the “Company”, “our”, “us”, or “we”), is a leading provider of internet services.
In addition, the Cloud Services segment includes fax, voice, backup, security and email marketing products.
Our Digital Media segment specializes in the technology, gaming, lifestyle and healthcare markets, offering content, tools and services to consumers and businesses.
All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
The accompanying interim condensed consolidated financial statements are unaudited and have been prepared in accordance with instructions for Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).
In the opinion of management, all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring adjustments) considered necessary for a fair presentation have been reflected in these interim financial statements.
j2 Global reserves for receivables it may not be able to collect.
The reserves for the Company’s Digital Media segment are typically driven by past due invoices based on historical experience.
On an ongoing basis, management evaluates the adequacy of these reserves.
j2 Global recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, services have been provided, the sales price is fixed and determinable and collection is probable.
j2 Global recognizes revenue when the Company satisfies its obligation by transferring control of the goods or services to its customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services (see Note 3 - Revenues).
The Company accounts for its investments in debt securities in accordance with ASC Topic No.
Debt investments are typically comprised of corporate debt securities.
j2 Global determines the appropriate classification of its investments at the time of acquisition and evaluates such determination at each balance sheet date.
Trading securities are those investments that the Company intends to sell within a few hours or days and are carried at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses included in investment income.
Available-for-sale securities are those investments j2 Global does not intend to hold to maturity and can be sold.
Held-to-maturity securities are those investments which the Company has the ability and intent to hold until maturity and are recorded at amortized cost.
All debt securities are accounted for on a specific identification basis.
321, Investments - Equity Securities (“ASC 321”) which requires the accounting for equity investments (other than those accounted for using the equity method of accounting) generally be measured at fair value for equity securities with readily determinable fair values.
For equity securities without a readily determinable fair value that are not accounted for by the equity method, the Company measures the equity security using cost, less impairment, if any, and plus or minus observable price changes arising from orderly transactions in the same or similar investment from the same issuer.
j2 believes that the OCV general partner, as a single decision maker, holds the ability to make the decisions about the activities that most significantly impacts the OCV Fund’s economic performance.
As a result, the Company has concluded that it will not consolidate OCV, as it is not the primary beneficiary of the OCV Fund, and will account for this investment under the equity-method of accounting.
The Company recognizes its equity in the net earnings or losses relating to the investment in OCV on a one-quarter lag due to the timing and availability of financial information from OCV.
820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (“ASC 820”), in measuring fair value and in disclosing fair value measurements.
ASC 820 provides a framework for measuring fair value and expands the disclosures required for fair value measurements of financial and non-financial assets and liabilities.
As of September 30, 2018, the carrying value of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, interest receivable, accounts payable, accrued expenses, interest payable, customer deposits and long-term debt are reflected in the financial statements at cost.
With the exception of certain investments and long-term debt, cost approximates fair value due to the short-term nature of such instruments.
The fair value of the Company’s outstanding debt was determined using the quoted market prices of available debt instruments with similar terms and maturities.
As of the same dates, the carrying value of other long-term liabilities approximated fair value as the related interest rates approximate rates currently available to j2 Global.
Property and equipment are stated at cost.
Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets.
The estimated useful lives of property and equipment range from 1 to 10 years.
Fixtures, which are comprised primarily of leasehold improvements and equipment under capital leases, are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives or for leasehold improvements, the related lease term, if less.
The Company has capitalized certain internal use software and website development costs which are included in property and equipment.
The estimated useful life of costs capitalized is evaluated for each specific project and ranges from 1 to 5 years.
These costs and discounts are amortized and included in interest expense over the life of the borrowing or term of the credit facility using the effective interest method.
j2 Global measures the contingent earn-out liabilities in connection with acquisitions at fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable inputs classified within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy (see Note 6 - Fair Value Measurements).
The Company may use various valuation techniques depending on the terms and conditions of the contingent consideration including a Monte-Carlo simulation.
Ultimately, the liability will be equivalent to the amount paid, and the difference between the fair value estimate and the amount paid will be recorded in earnings.
The amount paid that is less than or equal to the liability on the acquisition date is reflected as cash used in financing activities in our consolidated statements of cash flows.
Any amount paid in excess of the liability on the acquisition date is reflected as cash used in operating activities.
j2 Global is self-insured for certain subsidiaries providing health and dental insurance plans to its employees through a self-insurance structure.
Certain prior year reported amounts have been reclassified to conform to the 2018 presentation.
•use hindsight for lessees, in assessing the impairment of ROU assets.
The Company is currently evaluating the effect of this ASU on our financial statements and related disclosures.
Digital Media revenues are earned primarily from the delivery of advertising services and from subscriptions to services and information.
Payment is received in arrears by check or wire and includes terms aligned with the industry standard of 90 days or less.
Revenue from subscriptions is earned through the granting of access to, or delivery of, certain data products or services to customers.
Subscriptions cover video games and related content, health information, data and other copyrighted material.
Revenues are also earned from listing fees, subscriptions to online publications, and from other sources.
Assets are licensed for clients’ use in their own promotional materials or otherwise.
The Digital Media business also generates other types of revenues, marketing and production services, and from other sources.
Such other revenues are generally recognized over the period in which the products or services are delivered.
Revenues are no longer generated in 2018 from certain marketing and production services as a result of the sale of certain Digital Media assets during 2017.
The Company records revenue on a gross basis with respect to revenue generated (i) by the Company serving online display and video advertising across its owned and operated web properties, on third-party sites or on unaffiliated advertising networks, (ii) through the Company’s lead-generation business and (iii) through the Company’s subscriptions.
The Company records revenue on a net basis with respect to revenue paid to the Company by certain third-party advertising networks who serve online display and video advertising across the Company’s owned-and-operated web properties and certain third-party sites.
The Company’s Cloud Services revenues substantially consist of monthly recurring subscription and usage-based fees, which are primarily paid in advance by credit card.
The Company defers the portions of monthly, quarterly, semi-annually and annually recurring subscription and usage-based fees collected in advance of the satisfaction of performance obligations and recognizes them in the period earned.
Along with our numerous proprietary Cloud Services solutions, the Company also generates revenues by reselling various third-party solutions, primarily through our email security and online backup lines of business.
These third-party solutions, along with our proprietary products, allow the Company to offer customers a variety of solutions to better meet their needs.
The Company records revenue on a gross basis with respect to reseller revenue because the Company has control of the specified good or service prior to transferring control to the customer.
With regard to royalty-bearing license arrangements, the Company recognizes revenues of license fees earned during the applicable period.
Generally, revenue is recognized over time as the third party uses the licensed technology over the period.
The Company has recorded $67.9 million of revenue for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 which was previously included in the contract liability balance as of the adoption date.
As a result, such revenue is excluded from the disclosure for the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
The Company’s contracts with customers may include multiple performance obligations.
For such arrangements, revenues are allocated to each performance obligation based on its relative standalone selling price.
Payments for these services are typically due shortly after they have been provided.
In addition, the Company provides content to its advertising partners which the Company sells to its partners’ customer base and receives a revenue share based on the terms of the agreement.
Payment terms vary by type and location of our customers and the services offered.
The term between invoicing and when payment is due is not significant.
For certain services and customer types, we require payment before services are delivered to the customer.
Due to the nature of the services provided, there are no obligations for returns.
Judgment is also required to determine the standalone selling price for each distinct performance obligation.
The Company has concluded revenue is recognized based on delivery of services over the contract period for advertising and on a straight-line basis over the contract period for subscriptions.
The Company has concluded that the best measure of progress toward the complete satisfaction of the performance obligation over time is a time-based measure.
The Company recognizes revenue on a straight-line basis throughout the subscription period and believes that the method used is a faithful depiction of the transfer of goods and services.
The Company’s Digital Media segment has technology subscriptions that have standalone functionality.
As a result, they are considered to be functional intellectual property where the performance obligations are satisfied at a point in time.
This is evidenced once a digital key is delivered to the customer.
Once the key is delivered to the customer, the customer has full control of the technology and the Company has no further performance obligations.
The Company has concluded that revenue is recognized once the digital key is delivered.
As a practical expedient, the Company has not assessed whether a contract has a significant financing component because the Company expects at contract inception that the period between payment by the customer and the transfer of promised goods or services by the Company to the customer will be one year or less.
In addition, the Company has determined that the payment terms that the Company provides to its customers are structured primarily for reasons other than the provision of finance to the Company.
The Company’s revenues are primarily generated from customer contracts that are for one year or less.
Costs primarily consist of incentive compensation paid based on the achievements of sales targets in a given period for related revenue streams and are recognized in the month when the revenue is earned.
For those customer contracts greater than one year, the Company capitalizes and amortizes the expenses over the period of benefit.
The Company uses acquisitions as a strategy to grow its customer base by increasing its presence in new and existing markets, expand and diversify its service offerings, enhance its technology, acquire skilled personnel and enter into other jurisdictions.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2018, these acquisitions contributed $26.1 million to the Company’s revenues.
Net income contributed by these acquisitions was not separately identifiable due to j2 Global’s integration activities and is impracticable to provide.
Total consideration for these transactions was $197.8 million, net of cash acquired and assumed liabilities and is subject to certain post-closing adjustments which may increase or decrease the final consideration paid.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, the Company recorded adjustments to prior period acquisitions due to the finalization of purchase accounting in the Cloud Services segment which resulted in a net decrease in goodwill of $1.0 million.
In addition, the Company recorded adjustments to the initial working capital related to prior period acquisitions in the Digital Media segment, which resulted in a net decrease in goodwill of $0.3 million.
Such adjustments had an immaterial impact on the amortization expense within the condensed consolidated statement of income for the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and represents intangible assets that do not qualify for separate recognition.
Goodwill recognized associated with these acquisitions during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 is $126.8 million, of which $38.3 million is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
Investments consist of certificates of deposits, equity and debt securities.
The Company has adopted ASU 2016-01 during the first quarter 2018 (see Note 2 - Recent Accounting Pronouncements) and determined that the equity securities that were received as part of the consideration for the sale of Tea Leaves Health, LLC (“Tea Leaves”) in fiscal year 2017 are without a readily determinable fair value because these securities are privately held, not traded on any public exchanges and not an investment in a mutual fund or similar investment.
As a result, management has elected to alternatively measure this investment at cost, less impairment, adjusted for subsequent observable price changes to estimate fair value.
In addition, the Company determined that the shares of redeemable preferred stock that were also received as part of the consideration for the sale of Tea Leaves are corporate debt securities and are classified as available-for-sale securities.
During the first nine months of 2018, the Company recorded an unrealized loss to earnings because an observable price for a similar instrument was observed in the market at an amount that was below the original carrying price of the investment (see Note 6 - Fair Value Measurements).
At September 30, 2018, the Company’s available-for-sale securities are carried at fair value, with the unrealized gains and losses reported as a component of stockholders’ equity.
Regardless of the classification of the securities as available-for-sale or held-to-maturity, the Company has assessed each position for impairment.
An unrealized loss exists when the current fair value of an individual security is less than its amortized cost basis.
Unrealized losses that are determined to be temporary in nature are recorded, net of tax, in accumulated other comprehensive income for available-for-sale securities.
•the Company’s ability and intent to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery.
•information provided by third-party valuation experts.
Credit impairment is assessed using a combination of a discounted cash flow model that estimates the cash flows on the underlying securities and a market comparable method, where the security is valued based upon indications from the secondary market of what discounts buyers demand when purchasing similar securities.
The cash flow model incorporates actual cash flows from the securities through the current period and then projects the remaining cash flows using relevant interest rate curves over the remaining term.
Securities that have been identified as other-than-temporarily impaired are written down to their current fair value.
For debt securities that are intended to be sold or that management believes it more-likely-than-not that it will be required to sell prior to recovery, the full impairment is recognized immediately in earnings.
For available-for-sale and held-to-maturity securities that management has no intent to sell and believes that it more-likely-than-not that it will not be required to sell prior to recovery, only the credit loss component of the impairment is recognized in earnings, while the rest of the fair value impairment is recognized in other comprehensive income.
The credit loss component recognized in earnings is identified as the amount of principal cash flows not expected to be received over the remaining term of the security.
As of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, we did not recognize any other-than-temporary impairment losses.
On September 25, 2017, the Company entered into a commitment to invest $200 million (approximately 66.7% of equity) in the OCV Fund.
The total expected commitment to the OCV Fund is expected to be approximately $300 million.
The primary purpose of the Fund is to provide a limited number of select investors with the opportunity to realize long-term appreciation from public and private companies, with a particular focus on the technology and life science industries.
The general activities of the OCV Fund is to buy, sell, hold and otherwise invest in securities of every kind and nature and rights and options with respect thereto, including, without limitation, stock, notes, bonds, debentures and evidence of indebtedness; to exercise all rights, powers, privileges and other incidents of ownership or possession with respect to securities held or owned by the OCV Fund; to enter into, make and perform all contracts and other undertakings; and to engage in all activities and transactions as may be necessary, advisable or desirable to carry out the foregoing.
As a limited partner in the Fund, the Company will pay an annual management fee to the manager equal to 2.0% (reduced by 10% each year beginning with the sixth year) of capital commitments.
In addition, subject to the terms and conditions of the Fund’s limited partnership agreement, once the Company has received distributions equal to its invested capital, the Fund’s general partner would be entitled to a carried interest equal to 20%.
The Fund has a six year investment period, subject to certain exceptions.
The commitment was approved by the Audit Committee of the Board in accordance with the Company’s related-party transaction approval policy.
The Company recognizes its equity in the net earnings or losses relating to the investment in OCV on a one-quarter lag due to the timing and availability of financial information from OCV.
The loss is presented in the Company’s condensed consolidated statement of income as loss from equity investments, net.
As a limited partner, the Company’s maximum exposure to loss is $29.8 million and is limited to its proportional ownership in the partnership.
In addition, the Company’s is not required to contribute capital in an aggregate amount in excess of its capital commitment and any expected losses will not be in excess of the Capital Account.
Finally, there are no call or put options, or other types of arrangements, which limit the Company’s ability to participate in losses and returns of the Fund.
 lLevel 1 – Observable inputs that reflect quoted prices (unadjusted) for identical assets or liabilities in active markets.
 lLevel 2 – Observable inputs other than quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities, quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in inactive markets, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.
 lLevel 3 – Unobservable inputs which are supported by little or no market activity.
The fair value hierarchy also requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value.
The Company’s money market funds are classified within Level 1.
The Company’s debt securities are classified within Level 2.
The Company values these Level 2 investments based on model-driven valuations using significant inputs derived from or corroborated by observable market data.
In addition, the Convertible Notes contain terms that may require the Company to pay contingent interest on the Convertible Notes which is accounted for as a derivative with fair value adjustments being recorded to interest expense (see Note 8 - Long Term Debt).
This derivative is fair valued using a binomial lattice convertible bond pricing model using historical and implied market information, which are Level 2 inputs.
This methodology was utilized because the distribution of payments is not symmetric and amounts are only payable upon certain earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”) thresholds being reached.
In connection with the acquisition of Humble Bundle, on October 13, 2017, contingent consideration of up to an aggregate of $40.0 million may be payable upon achieving certain future EBITDA thresholds and had a fair value of $34.1 million and $19.7 million at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.
In connection with the acquisition of blackfriday.com, on November 7, 2017, the Company achieved certain earnings targets and, as a result, contingent consideration of $0.8 million was paid to the seller during the first quarter 2018 in connection with this acquisition.
In connection with the acquisition of Mosaik Solutions, on June 18, 2018, contingent consideration of up to an aggregate of $1.0 million may be payable upon achieving certain income thresholds and had a fair value of $0.8 million at September 30, 2018.
In connection with the acquisition of bestblackfriday.com, on July 13, 2018, contingent consideration of up to an aggregate of $2.0 million may be payable upon achieving a certain number of visitors and had a fair value of $2.0 million at September 30, 2018.
In connection with the acquisition of DemandShore, on July 19, 2018, contingent consideration of up to an aggregate of $1.9 million may be payable upon achieving certain future EBITDA and revenue thresholds and had a fair value of $1.3 million at September 30, 2018.
In connection with the acquisition of DownDetector, on August 9, 2018, contingent consideration of up to an aggregate of $3.7 million may be payable upon achieving certain number of average monthly unique visitors thresholds and had a fair value of $2.9 million at September 30, 2018.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, the Company recorded an increase in the fair value of the contingent consideration of $14.4 million and reported such increase in general and administrative expenses.
Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired in a business combination.
Intangible assets resulting from the acquisitions of entities accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting are recorded at the estimated fair value of the assets acquired.
Identifiable intangible assets are comprised of purchased customer relationships, trademarks and trade names, developed technologies and other intangible assets.
Identifiable intangible assets are amortized over the period of estimated economic benefit, which ranges from one to 20 years.
Amortization expense, included in general and administrative expense, approximated $35.8 million and $31.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $102.7 million and $94.3 million for the nine month periods ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Amortization expense is estimated to approximate $204.4 million, $93.5 million, $59.2 million, $45.1 million and $36.2 million for fiscal years 2018 through 2022, respectively, and $129.7 million thereafter through the duration of the amortization period.
On June 27, 2017, j2 Cloud Services, LLC (“j2 Cloud”) and j2 Cloud Co-Obligor (the “Co-Issuer” and together with j2 Cloud, the “Issuers”), wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Company, completed the issuance and sale of $650 million aggregate principal amount of their 6.0% senior notes due in 2025 (the “6.0% Senior Notes”) in a private placement offering exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933.
The 6.0% Senior Notes mature on July 15, 2025, and are senior unsecured obligations of the Issuers and are guaranteed on an unsecured basis by certain subsidiaries of j2 Cloud (as defined in the Indenture agreement dated June 27, 2017, the “Indenture”).
If j2 Cloud or any of its restricted subsidiaries acquires or creates a domestic restricted subsidiary, other than an insignificant subsidiary (as defined in the Indenture), after the issue date, or any insignificant subsidiary ceases to fit within the definition of insignificant subsidiary, such restricted subsidiary is required to unconditionally guarantee, jointly and severally, on an unsecured basis, the Issuers’ obligations under the 6.0% Senior Notes.
The Issuers may redeem some or all of the 6.0% Senior Notes at any time on or after July 15, 2020 at specified redemption prices plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but excluding the redemption date.
Before July 15, 2020, in connection with certain equity offerings, the Issuers also may redeem up to 35% of the 6.0% Senior Notes at a price equal to 106.0% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but excluding the redemption date.
In addition, at any time prior to July 15, 2020, the Issuers may redeem some or all of the 6.0% Senior Notes at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the redemption date, plus an applicable “make-whole” premium.
The Indenture contains certain restrictive and other covenants applicable to j2 Cloud and subsidiaries designated as restricted subsidiaries including, but not limited to, restrictions on (i) paying dividends or making distributions on j2 Cloud’s membership interests or repurchasing j2 Cloud’s membership interests; (ii) making certain restricted payments; (iii) creating liens or entering into sale and leaseback transactions; (iv) entering into transactions with affiliates; (v) merging or consolidating with another company; and (vi) transferring and selling assets.
These covenants include certain exceptions.
Violation of these covenants could result in a default which could result in the acceleration of outstanding amounts if such default is not cured or waived within the time periods outlined in the Indenture.
Restricted payments, specifically dividend payments, are applicable only if j2 Cloud and subsidiaries designated as restricted subsidiaries has a leverage ratio of greater than 3.0 to 1.0.
In addition, if such leverage ratio is in excess of 3.0 to 1.0, the restriction on restricted payments is subject to various exceptions, including an exception for the payment of restricted payments up to $75 million.
These contractual provisions did not, as of September 30, 2018, restrict j2 Cloud’s ability to pay dividends to j2 Global, Inc.
The company is in compliance with its debt covenants as of September 30, 2018.
As of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the estimated fair value of the 6.0% Senior Notes was approximately $669.5 million and $684.1 million, respectively, and was based on the quoted market prices of debt instruments with similar terms, credit rating and maturities of the 6.0% Senior Notes which are Level 2 inputs (see Note 6 - Fair Value Measurements).
On June 10, 2014, j2 Global issued $402.5 million aggregate principal amount of 3.25% convertible senior notes due June 15, 2029 (the “Convertible Notes”).
Beginning with the six-month interest period commencing on June 15, 2021, the Company must pay contingent interest on the Convertible Notes during any six-month interest period if the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of the Convertible Notes for each of the five trading days immediately preceding the first day of such interest period equals or exceeds $1,300.
As of September 30, 2018, the conversion rate is 14.6680 shares of j2 Global common stock for each $1,000 principal amount of Convertible Notes, which represents a conversion price of approximately $68.18 per share of j2 Global common stock.
The conversion rate is subject to adjustment for certain events as set forth in the indenture governing the Convertible Notes, but will not be adjusted for accrued interest.
In addition, following certain corporate events that occur on or prior to June 20, 2021, j2 Global will increase the conversion rate for a holder that elects to convert its Convertible Notes in connection with such a corporate event.
j2 Global may not redeem the Convertible Notes prior to June 20, 2021.
No sinking fund is provided for the Convertible Notes.
Holders have the right to require j2 Global to repurchase for cash all or part of their Convertible Notes on each of June 15, 2021 and June 15, 2024 at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Convertible Notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the relevant repurchase date.
In addition, if a fundamental change, as defined in the indenture governing the Convertible Notes, occurs prior to the maturity date, holders may require j2 Global to repurchase for cash all or part of their Convertible Notes at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Convertible Notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the fundamental change repurchase date.
In accordance with ASC 470-20, Debt with Conversion and Other Options, convertible debt that can be settled for cash is required to be separated into the liability and equity component at issuance, with each component assigned a value.
The value assigned to the liability component is the estimated fair value, as of the issuance date, of similar debt without the conversion feature.
The difference between the cash proceeds and estimated fair value of the liability component, representing the value of the conversion premium assigned to the equity component, is recorded as a debt discount on the issuance date.
As a result, a conversion premium after tax of $37.7 million was recorded in additional paid-in capital.
As of September 30, 2018, the remaining period over which the unamortized debt discount will be amortized is 2.7 years.
The Convertible Notes are carried at face value less any unamortized debt discount and debt issuance costs.
The fair value of the Convertible Notes at each balance sheet date is determined based on recent quoted market prices or dealer quotes for the Convertible Notes, which are Level 1 inputs (see Note 6 - Fair Value Measurements).
If such information is not available, the fair value is determined using cash-flow models of the scheduled payments discounted at market interest rates for comparable debt without the conversion feature.
As of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the estimated fair value of the Convertible Notes was approximately $525.3 million and $504.5 million, respectively.
On February 17, 2011, Emmanuel Pantelakis (“Pantelakis”) filed suit against a j2 Global affiliate in the Ontario Superior Court of Justice (No.
11-50673), alleging that the j2 Global affiliate breached a contract relating to Pantelakis’s use of the Campaigner service.
On November 6, 2012, Pantelakis filed a second amended statement of claim, reframing his lawsuit as a negligence action.
The j2 Global affiliate filed an amended statement of defense on April 8, 2013.
Discovery has closed.
There is an anticipated trial date of January 2020.
On January 17, 2013, the Commissioner of the Massachusetts Department of Revenue (“Commissioner”) issued a notice of assessment to a j2 Global affiliate for sales and use tax for the period of July 1, 2003 through December 31, 2011.
On July 22, 2014, the Commissioner denied the j2 Global affiliate’s application for abatement.
On May 18, 2017, the Appellate Board decided in favor of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
The j2 Global affiliate has requested the findings of fact and conclusions of law from the Appellate Board.
It is the Company’s policy to expense as incurred legal fees related to various litigations.
The aggregate assessments at September 30, 2018 were not material.
The June 2018 U.S. Supreme Court ruling in South Dakota v. Wayfair, Inc., No.
The Company has a $4.6 million reserve established for these matters.
The Company’s tax provision for interim periods is determined using an estimate of the Company’s annual effective tax rate adjusted for discrete interim period tax impacts.
Each quarter the Company updates its estimated annual effective tax rate and, if the estimate changes, makes a cumulative adjustment.
The Company’s effective tax rate was 22.9% and 22.1% for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and 22.2% and 23.7% for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Income before income taxes included income from domestic operations of $4.3 million and $13.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and income from foreign operations of $100.7 million and $103.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The 2017 Tax Act was enacted on December 22, 2017.
In addition, SAB 118 provides for a measurement period of one year from the enactment date to finalize the accounting for effects of the 2017 Tax Act.
As of December 31, 2017, the Company recorded an estimated tax benefit of approximately $33.3 million.
As of September 30, 2018, the Company has not adjusted its provisional estimate related to re-measurement of its deferred tax balances.
Therefore, the Company did not include a provisional amount for this item in its financial statements for fiscal 2017.
Therefore, the Company has not determined its accounting policy on the GILTI provisions.
However, the standard requires that the Company reflect the impact of the GILTI provisions as a period expense until the accounting policy is finalized.
Therefore, the Company has included the provisional estimate of GILTI related to current-year operations in its estimated annual effective tax rate only and will be updating the impact and accounting policy as the analysis related to the GILTI provisions is completed.
As of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the Company had $55.7 million and $52.2 million, respectively, in liabilities for uncertain income tax positions.
Cash paid for income taxes net of refunds received was $21.9 million and $46.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The Company’s prepaid taxes were zero and $6.0 million at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.
The Company was under audit by the Georgia Department of Revenue (“Georgia DOR”) for tax years 2014 through 2016.
In June 2018, the Georgia DOR concluded its audit of tax years 2014 through 2016.
However, it is not currently possible to estimate the amount, if any, of such change.
In July 2016, the Company acquired and subsequently retired 935,231 shares of j2 Global common stock in connection with the acquisition of Integrated Global Concepts, Inc. As a result of the purchase of j2 Global common stock, the Company’s Board of Directors approved a reduction in the number of shares available for purchase under the 2012 Program by the same amount leaving 1,938,689 shares of j2 Global common stock available for purchase under this program.
During the nine month period ended September 30, 2018, we repurchased zero shares under this program.
Cumulatively at September 30, 2018, 2.1 million shares were repurchased at an aggregate cost of $58.6 million (including an immaterial amount of commission fees).
Periodically, participants in j2 Global’s stock plans surrender to the Company shares of j2 Global stock to pay the exercise price or to satisfy tax withholding obligations arising upon the exercise of stock options or the vesting of restricted stock.
During the three month period ended September 30, 2018, the Company purchased 9,509 shares from plan participants for this purpose.
Future dividends are subject to Board approval.
12.Stock Options and Employee Stock Purchase Plan
Each plan is described below.
The 2007 Plan provides for the granting of incentive stock options, nonqualified stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units and other share-based awards.
4,500,000 shares of j2 Global common stock are authorized to be used for 2007 Plan purposes.
Options under the 2007 Plan may be granted at exercise prices determined by the Board of Directors, provided that the exercise prices shall not be less than the fair market value of j2 Global’s common stock on the date of grant for incentive stock options and not less than 85% of the fair market value of j2 Global’s common stock on the date of grant for non-statutory stock options.
As of September 30, 2018, 250,577 shares underlying options and 6,460 shares of restricted units were outstanding under the 2007 Plan.
The 2015 Plan provides for the granting of incentive stock options, nonqualified stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance shares, performance share units and other share-based awards and is intended as a successor plan to the 2007 Stock Plan since no further grants will be made under the 2007 Stock Plan.
4,200,000 shares of j2 Global common stock are authorized to be used for 2015 Plan purposes.
Options under the 2015 Plan may be granted at exercise prices determined by the Board of Directors, provided that the exercise prices shall not be less than the higher of the par value or 100% of the fair market value of j2 Global’s common stock subject to the option on the date the option is granted.
As of September 30, 2018, 462,000 shares underlying options and 36,751 shares of restricted stock units were outstanding under the 2015 Plan.
All stock option grants are approved by “outside directors” within the meaning of Internal Revenue Code Section 162(m).
The total intrinsic values of options exercised during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 were $3.6 million and $2.1 million, respectively.
The Company recognized $0.2 million and $40,000 of compensation expense related to stock options for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $0.7 million and $0.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
As of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, unrecognized stock compensation related to non-vested stock options granted under each of the share-based compensation plans approximated $7.1 million and $0.2 million, respectively.
Unrecognized stock compensation expense related to non-vested stock options granted under these plans is expected to be recognized ratably over a weighted-average period of 7.1 years (i.e., the remaining requisite service period).
j2 Global uses the Black-Scholes option pricing model to calculate the fair value of each option grant.
The Company estimates the expected term based upon the historical exercise behavior of our employees.
The risk-free interest rate is based on U.S. Treasury zero-coupon issues with a term equal to the expected term of the option assumed at the date of grant.
The Company uses an annualized dividend yield based upon the per share dividends declared by its Board of Directors.
Estimated forfeiture rates were 11.71% and 14.07% as of September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
j2 Global has awarded restricted stock and restricted stock units to its Board of Directors and senior staff pursuant to certain share-based compensation plans.
Compensation expense resulting from restricted stock and restricted unit grants is measured at fair value on the date of grant and is recognized as share-based compensation expense over the applicable vesting period.
Vesting periods are approximately one year for awards to members of the Company’s Board of Directors, five years for senior staff (excluding market-based awards discussed below) and eight years for the Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”).
j2 Global has awarded certain key employees market-based restricted stock awards pursuant to the 2015 Plan.
Market conditions were factored into the grant date fair value using a Monte Carlo valuation model, which utilized multiple input variables to determine the probability of the Company achieving the specified stock price targets with a 20-day and 30-day lookback (trading days).
Stock-based compensation expense related to an award with a market condition will be recognized over the requisite service period using the graded-vesting method regardless of whether the market condition is satisfied, provided that the requisite service period has been completed.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, the Company awarded 473,501 and 85,825 market-based restricted stock awards, respectively.
The per share weighted average grant-date fair values of the market-based restricted stock awards granted during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 were $52.95 and $72.20, respectively.
The Company recognized $7.5 million and $4.4 million of compensation expense related to restricted stock and restricted stock units for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $20.2 million and $13.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
As of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the Company had unrecognized share-based compensation cost of approximately $67.6 million and $36.6 million, respectively, associated with these awards.
This cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 5.7 years for awards and 3.4 years for units.
The price of the j2 Global common stock purchased under the Purchase Plan for the offering periods is equal to 95% of the fair market value of the j2 Global common stock at the end of the offering period.
On February 2, 2018, the Company approved an amendment to the Company’s Amended and Restated 2001 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, to be effective May 1, 2018, such that (i) the purchase price for each offering period shall be 85% of the lesser of the fair market value of a share of common stock of the Company (a “Share”) on the beginning or the end of the offering period, rather than 95% of the fair market value of a Share at the end of the offering period, and (ii) each offering period will be six months, rather than three months.
j2 Global performed an analysis of the Amendment terms and determined that a plan provision exists which allows for the more favorable of two exercise prices, commonly referred to as a “look-back” feature.
The purchase price discount and the look-back feature cause the Purchase Plan to be compensatory and the Company to recognize compensation expense.
The compensation cost is recognized on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period.
The Company used the Black-Scholes option pricing model to calculate the estimated fair value of the purchase right issued under the ESPP.
The risk-free interest rate is based on U.S. Treasury zero-coupon issues with a term equal to the expected term of the option assumed at the date of grant.
The Company uses an annualized dividend yield based upon the per share dividends declared by its Board of Directors.
Estimated forfeiture rates were 0.10% as of September 30, 2018.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, 1,781 and 2,373 shares were purchased under the Purchase Plan, respectively.
As of September 30, 2018, 1,621,462 shares were available under the Purchase Plan for future issuance.
The Company recognized $0.3 million and zero of compensation expense related to the Purchase Plan for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $0.4 million and zero of compensation expense related to the Purchase Plan for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
For the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, there were zero options outstanding, respectively, which were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share because the exercise prices were greater than the average market price of the common stock.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, there were zero options outstanding, respectively, which were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share because the exercise prices were greater than the average market price of the common stock.
The Company’s Digital Media segment is driven primarily by advertising revenues, has relatively higher sales and marketing expense and has seasonal strength in the fourth quarter.
The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in Note 1 - Basis of Presentation.
The Company evaluates performance based on gross margin and profit or loss from operations before income taxes, not including nonrecurring gains and losses and foreign exchange gains and losses.
j2 Global maintains operations in the U.S., Canada, Ireland, Japan and other countries.
Geographic information about the U.S. and all other countries for the reporting periods is presented below.
Such information attributes revenues based on jurisdictions where revenues are reported (in thousands).
15.Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income
On October 10, 2018, in a cash transaction, the Company acquired through a share purchase all the issued capital of Ekahau Inc., a Virginia-based provider in solutions for enterprise Wi-Fi network design, troubleshooting and optimization.
On October 29, 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors approved a quarterly cash dividend of $0.4350 per share of j2 Global common stock payable on December 5, 2018 to all stockholders of record as of the close of business on November 19, 2018.
See Note 9 – Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1) for information regarding certain legal proceedings in which we are involved.
Item 1A.
The 10-K Risk Factors are not the only ones we face.
