Item 3.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which reflect management’s opinions only as of the date hereof.
J2 Global undertakes no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revision to these forward-looking statements.
Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio and borrowings under our Credit Facility that bear variable market interest rates.
The primary objectives of our investment activities are to preserve our principal while at the same time maximizing yields without significantly increasing risk.
To achieve these objectives, we maintain our portfolio of cash equivalents and investments in a mix of instruments that meet high credit quality standards, as specified in our investment policy or otherwise approved by the Board of Directors.
Our cash and cash equivalents are not subject to significant interest rate risk due to the short maturities of these instruments.
As of June 30, 2019, the carrying value of our cash and cash equivalents approximated fair value.
Our return on these investments is subject to interest rate fluctuations.
As of June 30, 2019, we had investments in debt securities with effective maturities greater than one year of approximately $22.1 million.
As of June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, we had cash and cash equivalent investments primarily in money market funds with maturities of 90 days or less of $155.5 million and $209.5 million, respectively.
Pursuant to the Credit Agreement, the Lenders have provided J2 Cloud Services with a credit facility of $100.0 million (the “Credit Facility”) with an option to request an increase of up to $50.0 million.
As of June 30, 2019, the Company had drawn $100.0 million on the Credit Facility.
If the LIBOR-based interest rates or Federal Funds Effective Rate would have increased by 100 basis points, annual interest expense would have increased by $1.0 million as it relates to our Credit Facility that bear variable market interest rates.
Our principal exposure to foreign currency risk relates to investment and inter-company debt in foreign subsidiaries that transact business in functional currencies other than the U.S. Dollar, primarily the Australian Dollar, the Canadian Dollar, the Euro, the Hong Kong Dollar, the Japanese Yen, the New Zealand Dollar, the Norwegian Kroner and the British Pound Sterling.
If we are unable to settle our short-term inter-company debts in a timely manner, we remain exposed to foreign currency fluctuations.
As we expand our international presence, we become further exposed to foreign currency risk by entering new markets with additional foreign currencies.
As currency exchange rates change, translation of the income statements of the international businesses into U.S.
Dollars affects year-over-year comparability of operating results, the impact of which is immaterial to the comparisons set forth in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Historically, we have not hedged translation risks because cash flows from international operations were generally reinvested locally; however, we may do so in the future.
Our objective in managing foreign exchange risk is to minimize the potential exposure to changes that exchange rates might have on earnings, cash flows and financial position.
Foreign exchange (gains) losses for the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 were $(0.3) million and $0.2 million, respectively, and for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 were $1.9 million and $2.0 million, respectively.
The decrease in losses to our earnings in the current period were attributable to decreased inter-company balances between periods in foreign subsidiaries that were in functional currencies other than the U.S. Dollar.
Cumulative translation adjustments, net of tax, included in other comprehensive income for the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 were $(1.2) million and $(14.6) million, respectively, and for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 were $(0.7) million and $(8.3) million, respectively.
However, we may in the future engage in hedging transactions to manage our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.
Item 3.Defaults Upon Senior Securities
