In addition to historical information, we have also made forward-looking statements in this report.
For those statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
We undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revision to these forward-looking statements.
◦Sustain growth or profitability, particularly in light of an uncertain U.S. or worldwide economy and the related impact on customer acquisition and retention rates, customer usage levels and credit and debit card payment declines;
j2 Global, Inc., together with its subsidiaries (“j2 Global”, “the Company”, “our”, “us” or “we”), is a leading provider of internet services.
Through our Cloud Services segment, we provide cloud services to consumers and businesses and license our intellectual property (“IP”) to third parties.
Our Digital Media segment specializes in the technology, gaming, lifestyle and healthcare markets offering content, tools and services to consumers and businesses.
Our Cloud Services segment generates revenues primarily from customer subscription and usage fees and from IP licensing fees.
Our Digital Media segment generates revenues from advertising and sponsorships, subscription and usage fees, performance marketing and licensing fees.
In addition to growing our business organically, on a regular basis we acquire businesses to grow our customer bases, expand and diversify our service offerings, enhance our technologies, acquire skilled personnel and enter into new markets.
Our consolidated revenues are currently generated from three basic business models, each with different financial profiles and variability.
Our Cloud Services segment is driven primarily by subscription revenues that are relatively higher margin, stable and predictable from quarter to quarter with some seasonal weakness in the fourth quarter.
The Cloud Services segment also includes the results of our IP licensing business, which can vary dramatically in both revenues and profitability from period to period.
Our Digital Media segment is driven primarily by advertising revenues, has relatively higher sales and marketing expense and has seasonal strength in the fourth quarter.
Our critical accounting policies are described in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on March 1, 2018.
During the three months ended March 31, 2018, there were no significant changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates, except for changes relating to our adoption of authoritative guidance associated with revenue recognition.
As of January 1, 2018, we adopted ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) using the modified retrospective method.
See Note 3 - Revenues to the condensed consolidated financial statements for our revenue recognition policy as of January 1, 2018.
The main focus of our Cloud Services offerings is to reduce or eliminate costs, increase sales and enhance productivity, mobility, business continuity and security of our customers as the technologies and devices they use evolve over time.
As a result, we expect to continue to take steps to enhance our existing offerings and offer new services to continue to satisfy the evolving needs of our customers.
In a given period, we may close greater or fewer acquisitions than in prior periods or acquisitions of greater or lesser significance than in prior periods.
Moreover, future acquisitions of businesses within this segment but with different business models may impact the segment’s overall profit margins.
Also, as IP licensing often involves litigation, the timing of licensing transactions is unpredictable and can and does vary significantly from period to period.
This variability can cause the overall segment’s financial results to materially vary from period to period.
The main focus of our advertising programs is to provide relevant and useful advertising to visitors to our websites and those included within our advertising networks, reflecting our commitment to constantly improve their overall web experience.
As a result, we expect to continue to take steps to improve the relevance of the ads displayed on our websites and those included within our advertising networks.
The operating margin we realize on revenues generated from ads placed on our websites is significantly higher than the operating margin we realize from revenues generated from those placed on third-party websites.
Growth in advertising revenues from our websites has generally exceeded that from third-party websites.
However, the trend in advertising spend is shifting to mobile devices and other newer advertising formats which generally experience lower margins than those from desktop computers and tablets.
We expect this trend to continue to put pressure on our margins.
In a given period, we may close greater or fewer acquisitions than in prior periods or acquisitions of greater or lesser significance than in prior periods.
Moreover, future acquisitions of businesses within this segment but with different business models may impact the segment’s overall profit margins.
We anticipate that the stable revenue trend in our Cloud Services segment combined with the improving revenue and profits in our Digital Media segment will result in overall improved revenue and profits for j2 Global on a consolidated basis, excluding the impact of any future acquisitions which can vary dramatically from period to period.
Our revenues consist of revenues from our Cloud Services segment and from our Digital Media segment.
Cloud Services revenues primarily consist of revenues from “fixed” customer subscription revenues and “variable” revenues generated from actual usage of our services.
Digital Media revenues primarily consist of advertising revenues, fees paid for generating business leads, and licensing and sale of editorial content and trademarks.
Our revenues in 2018 have increased over the comparable three month period of 2017 primarily due to a combination of acquisitions and organic growth within both the Digital Media and Cloud Services segments.
The increase in cost of revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was primarily due to an increase in costs associated with businesses acquired in and subsequent to the first quarter 2017 that resulted in additional editorial and production, network operations, and online processing fees.
Sales and Marketing.
Advertising cost for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was $38.5 million (primarily consists of $25.3 million of third-party advertising costs and $10.6 million of personnel costs) compared to 2017 of $31.5 million (primarily consists of $20.7 million third-party advertising costs and $10.0 million personnel costs).
The increase in sales and marketing expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2018 versus the prior comparable period was primarily due to increased personnel costs and advertising associated with the acquisition of businesses acquired in and subsequent to the first quarter 2017 within the Digital Media segment.
Research, Development and Engineering.
The increase in research, development and engineering costs for the three months ended March 31, 2018 versus the prior comparable period was primarily due to additional personnel costs associated with acquisitions within the Cloud Services and Digital Media segments and additional expenses for professional services.
The increase in general and administrative expense for the three months ended March 31, 2018 versus the prior comparable period was primarily due to additional amortization of intangible assets, depreciation of fixed assets, personnel costs relating to businesses acquired in and subsequent to the first quarter 2017, severance costs associated with acquisitions, fair value adjustments to contingent consideration and professional fees.
Our interest expense, net is generated primarily from interest expense due to outstanding debt, partially offset by interest income earned on cash, cash equivalents and investments.
Interest expense, net was $15.8 million and $12.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Our other expense, net is generated primarily from miscellaneous items, gain or losses on currency exchange and gains or losses on investments.
Other expense, net was $4.5 million and $0.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Other expense, net increased due to a loss on equity securities of $3.7 million and increased losses on currency exchange over the prior comparable period.
When necessary, we establish valuation allowances to reduce our deferred tax assets to an amount that will more likely than not be realized.
The 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“2017 Tax Act”) was enacted on December 22, 2017.
Consistent with guidance issued by SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
118 (“SAB 118”), the Company recorded provisional estimates for the income tax effects of the 2017 Tax Act in December 2017.
In addition, SAB 118 provides for a measurement period of one year from the enactment date to finalize the accounting for effects of the 2017 Tax Act.
We continue to analyze the impacts of the 2017 Tax Act and refine calculations.
The analysis included a preliminary assessment on the deductibility of certain amounts for which deferred tax assets may have been recorded.
As of December 31, 2017, we recorded an estimated tax benefit of approximately $33.3 million.
As of March 31, 2018, we did not adjust the provisional estimate related to re-measurement of deferred tax balances.
Therefore, we have not determined an accounting policy on the GILTI provisions.
However, the standard requires that we reflect the impact of the GILTI provisions as a period expense until the accounting policy is finalized.
Therefore, we have included the provisional estimate of GILTI related to current-year operations in its estimated annual effective tax rate only and will be updating the impact and accounting policy as the analysis related to the GILTI provisions is completed.
Provision for income taxes amounted to $7.0 million and $9.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Our effective tax rate was 27.1% and 26.7% for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
1.a decrease in tax benefit during 2018 related to revaluing deferred tax assets and liabilities; and
3.a decrease during 2018 from the reduction in the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate from 35% to 21% effective on January 1, 2018.
We evaluate the performance of our operating segments based on segment revenues, including both external and intersegment net sales, and segment operating income.
We account for intersegment sales and transfers based primarily on standard costs with reasonable mark-ups established between the segments.
Corporate assets consist of cash and cash equivalents, deferred income taxes and certain other assets.
Segment net sales of $149.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 increased $7.9 million, or 5.6%, from the prior comparable period due to business acquisitions.
Segment gross profit of $118.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 increased $6.0 million, or 5.4%, from the prior comparable period primarily due to business acquisitions.
Segment operating expenses of $61.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 increased $5.4 million, or 9.7%, from the prior comparable period primarily due to (a) additional expense associated with businesses acquired in and subsequent to the prior comparable period (b) increased bad debt expense; and (c) an allocation of certain shared Corporate operating costs.
As a result of these factors, segment operating income of $56.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 increased $0.6 million, or 1.0%, from the prior comparable period.
Our Cloud Services segment consists of several services which have similar economic characteristics, including the nature of the services and their production processes, the type of customers, as well as the methods used to distribute these services.
Segment net sales of $131.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 increased $18.0 million, or 15.9%, from the prior comparable period primarily due to business acquisitions.
Segment gross profit of $114.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 increased $12.6 million, or 12.4%, from the prior comparable period primarily due to business acquisitions.
Segment operating expenses of $117.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 increased $12.5 million, or 11.9%, from the prior comparable period primarily due to (a) additional expense associated with businesses acquired in and subsequent to the prior comparable period comprised primarily of salary and related costs, marketing costs, changes in fair value of contingent consideration and amortization of intangible assets; and (b) an allocation of certain shared Corporate operating costs.
As a result of these factors, segment operating (loss) income of $(3.4) million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 decreased $0.1 million, or 2.3%, from the prior comparable period.
At March 31, 2018, we had cash and investments of $396.3 million compared to $408.7 million at December 31, 2017.
The decrease in cash and investments resulted primarily from business acquisitions, dividends and interest paid, and purchases of property and equipment, partially offset by cash from operations.
As of March 31, 2018, cash and investments held within domestic and foreign jurisdictions were $146.1 million and $250.2 million, respectively.
On February 2, 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors approved a quarterly cash dividend of $0.4050 per share of common stock payable on March 9, 2018 to all stockholders of record as of the close of business on February 22, 2018.
On May 3, 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors approved a quarterly cash dividend of $0.4150 per share of j2 Global common stock payable on June 1, 2018 to all stockholders of record as of the close of business on May 18, 2018.
Future dividends are subject to Board approval.
As a limited partner in the Fund, the Company will pay an annual management fee to the manager equal to 2.0% (reduced by 10% each year beginning with the sixth year) of capital commitments.
In addition, subject to the terms and conditions of the Fund’s limited partnership agreement, once the Company has received distributions equal to its invested capital, the Fund’s general partner will be entitled to a carried interest equal to 20%.
The commitment was approved by the Audit Committee of the Board in accordance with the Company’s related-party transaction approval policy.
During the first quarter 2018, the Company received capital call notices from the management of OCV for approximately $13.4 million, inclusive of certain management fees.
We currently anticipate that our existing cash and cash equivalents and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated needs for working capital, capital expenditure, stock repurchases and cash dividends for at least the next 12 months.
Our primary sources of liquidity are cash flows generated from operations, together with cash and cash equivalents.
Net cash provided by operating activities was $103.9 million and $51.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Our operating cash flows resulted primarily from cash received from our customers offset by cash payments we made to third parties for their services, employee compensation and interest payments associated with our debt.
The increase in our net cash provided by operating activities in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily attributable to a decrease in accounts receivable and increased depreciation and amortization; partially offset by a decrease in accounts payable and accrued expenses.
Our cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash were $331.8 million and $350.9 million at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.
Net cash used in investing activities was $(107.0) million and $(13.4) million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
For the three months ended March 31, 2018, net cash used in investing activities was primarily attributable to business acquisitions, purchase of investments, and capital expenditures associated with the purchase of property and equipment.
For the three months ended March 31, 2017, net cash used in investing activities was primarily attributable to capital expenditures associated with the purchase of property and equipment, business acquisitions and the purchase of intangible assets.
The increase in our net cash used in investing activities in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily due to additional business acquisitions.
Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities was $(20.1) million and $25.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
For the three months ended March 31, 2018, net cash used in financing activities was primarily attributable to dividends paid, repurchases of stock and business acquisitions.
For the three months ended March 31, 2017, net cash provided by financing activities was primarily attributable to proceeds from a line of credit and exercise of stock options; partially offset by dividends paid, business acquisitions, and repurchases of stock.
During the three month period ended March 31, 2018, we repurchased zero shares under this program.
Cumulatively at March 31, 2018, 2.1 million shares were repurchased at an aggregate cost of $58.6 million (including an immaterial amount of commission fees).
As of March 31, 2018, our liability for uncertain tax positions was $53.3 million.
The future payments related to uncertain tax positions have not been presented in the table above due to the uncertainty of the amounts and timing of cash settlement with such authorities.
We have not presented contingent consideration associated with acquisitions in the table above due to the uncertainty of the amounts and the timing of cash settlements.
We are not party to any material off-balance sheet arrangements.
Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
In July 2016, the Company acquired and subsequently retired 935,231 shares of j2 Global common stock in connection with the acquisition of Integrated Global Concepts, Inc. As a result of the purchase of j2 Global common stock, the Company’s Board of Directors approved a reduction in the number of shares available for purchase under the 2012 Program by the same amount leaving 1,938,689 shares of j2 Global common stock available for purchase under this program.
During the three month period ended March 31, 2018, we repurchased zero shares under this program.
Cumulatively at March 31, 2018, 2.1 million shares were repurchased at an aggregate cost of $58.6 million (including an immaterial amount of commission fees).
