The accompanying interim condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of j2 Global and its direct and indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries. All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
j2 Global reserves for receivables it may not be able to collect. The reserves for the Company’s Cloud Services segment are typically driven by the volume of credit card declines and past due invoices and are based on historical experience as well as an evaluation of current market conditions. The reserves for the Company’s Digital Media segment are typically driven by past due invoices based on historical experience. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates the adequacy of these reserves. 
j2 Global recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, services have been provided, the sales price is fixed and determinable and collection is probable. 
j2 Global recognizes revenue when the Company satisfies its obligation by transferring control of the goods or services to its customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services (see Note 3 - Revenues). 
The Company has made an accounting policy election to exclude from the measurement of the transaction price all taxes assessed by a governmental authority that are (i) both imposed on and concurrent with a specific revenue-producing transaction and (ii) collected by the Company from a customer.
The Company accounts for its investments in debt securities in accordance with ASC Topic No. 320, Investments - Debt Securities (“ASC 320”). Debt investments are typically comprised of corporate and governmental debt securities. j2 Global determines the appropriate classification of its investments at the time of acquisition and evaluates such determination at each balance sheet date. Trading securities are those investments that the Company intends to sell within a few hours or days and are carried at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses included in investment income. Available-for-sale securities are those investments j2 Global does not intend to hold to maturity and can be sold. Available-for-sale securities are carried at fair value with unrealized gains and losses included in other comprehensive income. Held-to-maturity securities are those investments which the Company has the ability and intent to hold until maturity and are recorded at amortized cost. All debt securities are accounted for on a specific identification basis.
The Company accounts for its investments in equity securities in accordance with ASC Topic No. 321, Investments - Equity Securities (“ASC 321”) which requires the accounting for equity investments (other than those accounted for using the equity method of accounting) generally be measured at fair value for equity securities with readily determinable fair values. For equity securities without a readily determinable fair value that are not accounted for by the equity method, the Company measures the equity security using cost, less impairment, if any, and plus or minus observable price changes arising from orderly transactions in the same or similar investment from the same issuer. Any unrealized gains or losses will be reported in current earnings (see Note 5 - Investments).
The Company has concluded that, as a limited partner, although the obligations to absorb losses or benefit from the gains is not insignificant, the Company does not have “power” over OCV because it does not have the ability to direct the significant decisions which impact the economics of OCV. j2 believes that the OCV general partner, as a single decision maker, holds the ability to make the decisions about the activities that most significantly impacts the OCV Fund’s economic performance. As a result, the Company has concluded that it will not consolidate OCV, as it is not the primary beneficiary of the OCV Fund, and will account for this investment under the equity-method of accounting.
j2 Global complies with the provisions of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) ASC Topic No. 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (“ASC 820”), in measuring fair value and in disclosing fair value measurements. ASC 820 provides a framework for measuring fair value and expands the disclosures required for fair value measurements of financial and non-financial assets and liabilities.
As of June 30, 2018, the carrying value of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, interest receivable, accounts payable, accrued expenses, interest payable, customer deposits and long-term debt are reflected in the financial statements at cost. With the exception of certain investments and long-term debt, cost approximates fair value due to the short-term nature of such instruments. The fair value of the Company’s outstanding debt was determined using the quoted market prices of available debt instruments with similar terms and maturities. As of the same dates, the carrying value of other long-term liabilities approximated fair value as the related interest rates approximate rates currently available to j2 Global.
Property and equipment are stated at cost. Equipment under capital leases is stated at the present value of the minimum lease payments. Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. The estimated useful lives of property and equipment range from 1 to 10 years. Fixtures, which are comprised primarily of leasehold improvements and equipment under capital leases, are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives or for leasehold improvements, the related lease term, if less. The Company has capitalized certain internal use software and website development costs which are included in property and equipment. The estimated useful life of costs capitalized is evaluated for each specific project and ranges from 1 to 5 years.
liability capped by the contractual maximum of the contingent earn-out obligation. Ultimately, the liability will be equivalent to the amount paid, and the difference between the fair value estimate and the amount paid will be recorded in earnings. The amount paid that is less than or equal to the liability on the acquisition date is reflected as cash used in financing activities in our consolidated statements of cash flows. Any amount paid in excess of the liability on the acquisition date is reflected as cash used in operating activities.
Certain prior year reported amounts have been reclassified to conform to the 2018 presentation.
cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the period of adoption. In addition, this ASU provides a practical expedient to lessors to not separate nonlease components from the associated lease components similar to the expedient that is afforded to lessees. However, the lessor practical expedient is limited to circumstances in which the nonlease component or components otherwise would be accounted for under the new revenue guidance and both (1) the timing and pattern of transfer are the same for the nonlease component(s) and associated lease component and (2) the lease component, if accounted for separately, would be classified as an operating lease. This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company expects to adopt these ASUs January 1, 2019 and expects the adoption to have a material effect on its condensed consolidated balance sheet and disclosures. The Company continues to assess the effect of adoption and believes the most significant changes relate to the recognition of new right-of-use assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet for capital and operating leases. The Company has both capital and operating leases, both domestically and internationally, with varying expiration dates through 2025 in the aggregate amount of $80.2 million for the period ended June 30, 2018. Significant changes in leasing activity between now and adoption are not expected. In addition, the Company continues to identify which practical expedients will be elected, if any.
Digital Media revenues are earned primarily from the delivery of advertising services and from subscriptions to services and information.
Revenue from subscriptions is earned through the granting of access to, or delivery of, certain data products or services to customers. Subscriptions cover video games and related content, health information, data and other copyrighted material. Revenues under such agreements are recognized over the contract term for use of the service. Revenues are also earned from listing fees, subscriptions to online publications, and from other sources. Subscription revenues are recognized over time.
j2 Global also generates Digital Media revenues through the license of certain assets to clients. Assets are licensed for clients’ use in their own promotional materials or otherwise. Such assets may include logos, editorial reviews, or other copyrighted material. Revenues under such license agreements are recognized over the contract term for use of the asset. Technology assets are also licensed to clients. These assets are recognized over the term of the access period. The Digital Media business also generates other types of revenues, marketing and production services, and from other sources. Such other revenues are generally recognized over the period in which the products or services are delivered. Revenues are no longer generated in 2018 from certain marketing and production services as a result of the sale of certain Digital Media assets during 2017.
The Company records revenue on a gross basis with respect to revenue generated (i) by the Company serving online display and video advertising across its owned and operated web properties, on third-party sites or on unaffiliated advertising networks, (ii) through the Company’s lead-generation business and (iii) through the Company’s subscriptions. The Company records revenue on a net basis with respect to revenue paid to the Company by certain third-party advertising networks who serve online display and video advertising across the Company’s owned-and-operated web properties and certain third-party sites.
The Company’s Cloud Services revenues substantially consist of monthly recurring subscription and usage-based fees, which are primarily paid in advance by credit card. The Company defers the portions of monthly, quarterly, semi-annually and annually recurring subscription and usage-based fees collected in advance of the satisfaction of performance obligations and recognizes them in the period earned. 
Along with our numerous proprietary Cloud Services solutions, the Company also generates revenues by reselling various third-party solutions, primarily through our email security and online backup lines of business. These third-party solutions, along with our proprietary products, allow the Company to offer customers a variety of solutions to better meet their needs. The Company records revenue on a gross basis with respect to reseller revenue because the Company has control of the specified good or service prior to transferring control to the customer. 
The Cloud Services business also generates revenues by licensing certain technology to third parties. Generally, revenue is recognized over time as the third party uses the licensed technology over the period.
The Company has recorded $74.5 million of revenue for the six months ended June 30, 2018 which was previously included in the contract liability balance as of the adoption date. 
In connection with the acquisitions of ThreatTrack Security Holdings, Inc. and Mosaik Solutions, LLC (see Note 4 - Business Acquisitions), the Company acquired $24.3 million and $1.9 million of deferred revenue, respectively (subject to any purchase accounting adjustments).
The Company’s contracts with customers may include multiple performance obligations. For such arrangements, revenues are allocated to each performance obligation based on its relative standalone selling price. 
The Company satisfies its performance obligations within the Cloud Services segment upon delivery of services to its customers. Payment terms vary by type and location of our customers and the services offered. The term between invoicing and when payment is due is not significant. For certain services and customer types, we require payment before services are delivered to the customer. Due to the nature of the services provided, there are no obligations for returns.
In determining whether products and services are considered distinct performance obligations that should be accounted for separately versus together may require significant judgment. Judgment is also required to determine the standalone selling price for each distinct performance obligation. 
The Company has concluded revenue is recognized based on delivery of services over the contract period for advertising and on a straight-line basis over the contract period for subscriptions. The Company believes that the methods described are a faithful depiction of the transfer of goods and services.
The Company’s Cloud Services segment consists primarily of performance obligations that are satisfied over time. This has been determined based on the fact that the nature of services offered are subscription based and include fax, voice, backup, security and email marketing products where the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefit of the services provided regardless of whether the customer uses the services or not. As a result, the Company has concluded that the best measure of progress toward the complete satisfaction of the performance obligation over time is a time-based measure. The Company recognizes revenue on a straight-line basis throughout the subscription period and believes that the method used is a faithful depiction of the transfer of goods and services. 
The Company’s Digital Media segment has technology subscriptions where the performance obligations are satisfied at a point in time. This is evidenced once a digital key is delivered to the customer. Once the key is delivered to the customer, the customer has full control of the technology and the Company has no further performance obligations. The Company has concluded that revenue is recognized once the digital key is delivered. The Company believes that this method is a faithful depiction of the transfer of goods and services.
As a practical expedient, the Company has not assessed whether a contract has a significant financing component because the Company expects at contract inception that the period between payment by the customer and the transfer of promised goods or services by the Company to the customer will be one year or less. In addition, the Company has determined that the payment terms that the Company provides to its customers are structured primarily for reasons other than the provision of finance to the Company. The Company typically charges a single upfront amount for the services because other payment terms would affect the nature of the risk assumed by the Company to provide service given the costs of the customer acquisition and the highly competitive and commoditized nature of the business we operate which allows customers to easily move from one provider to another. This additional risk may make it uneconomical to provide the service.
The Company’s revenues are primarily generated from customer contracts that are for one year or less. Costs primarily consist of incentive compensation paid based on the achievements of sales targets in a given period for related revenue streams and are recognized in the month when the revenue is earned. As a practical expedient, for amortization periods which are determined to be one year or less, the Company expenses any incremental costs of obtaining the contract with a customer when incurred. For those customer contracts greater than one year, the Company capitalizes and amortizes the expenses over the appropriate contract periods.
The Company uses acquisitions as a strategy to grow its customer base by increasing its presence in new and existing markets, expand and diversify its service offerings, enhance its technology, acquire skilled personnel and enter into other jurisdictions.
During the six months ended June 30, 2018, the Company recorded adjustments to prior period acquisitions due to the finalization of purchase accounting in the Cloud Services segment which resulted in a net decrease in goodwill of $(1.0) million.  In addition, the Company recorded adjustments to the initial working capital related to prior period acquisitions in the Digital Media segment, which resulted in a net decrease in goodwill of $(0.4) million. Such adjustments had an immaterial impact on the amortization expense within the condensed consolidated statement of income for the six months ended June 30, 2018.
Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and represents intangible assets that do not qualify for separate recognition. Goodwill recognized associated with these acquisitions during the six months ended June 30, 2018 is $71.4 million, of which $13.9 million is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
The Company has adopted ASU 2016-01 during the first quarter 2018 (see Note 2 - Recent Accounting Pronouncements) and determined that the equity securities that were received as part of the consideration for the sale of Tea Leaves Health, LLC (“Tea Leaves”) in fiscal year 2017 are without a readily determinable fair value because these securities are privately held, not traded on any public exchanges and not an investment in a mutual fund or similar investment. As a result, management has elected to alternatively measure this investment at cost, less impairment, adjusted for subsequent observable price changes to estimate fair value. The Company will make a “reasonable effort” to identify any observable price changes for identical or similar investments with the issuer that are known are can be reasonably known. The adoption of ASU 2016-01 was done on a prospective basis and any changes in the carrying value of the equity securities will be reported in our current earnings as Other expense, net. In addition, the Company determined that the shares of redeemable preferred stock that was also received as part of the consideration for the sale of Tea Leaves are corporate debt securities and are classified as available-for-sale securities. 
During the first six months of 2018, the Company recorded an unrealized loss to earnings because an observable price for a similar instrument was observed in the market at an amount that was below the original carrying price of the investment (see Note 6 - Fair Value Measurements).
At June 30, 2018, the Company’s available-for-sale securities are carried at fair value, with the unrealized gains and losses reported as a component of stockholders’ equity.
Regardless of the classification of the securities as available-for-sale or held-to-maturity, the Company has assessed each position for impairment. j2 Global regularly reviews and evaluates each investment that has an unrealized loss. An unrealized loss exists when the current fair value of an individual security is less than its amortized cost basis. Unrealized losses that are determined to be temporary in nature are recorded, net of tax, in accumulated other comprehensive income for available-for-sale securities.
•the Company’s ability and intent to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery.
•information provided by third-party valuation experts.
For these securities, a critical component of the evaluation for other-than-temporary impairments is the identification of credit impairment, where management does not expect to receive cash flows sufficient to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the security. Credit impairment is assessed using a combination of a discounted cash flow model that estimates the cash flows on the underlying securities and a market comparable method, where the security is valued based upon indications from the secondary market of what discounts buyers demand when purchasing similar securities. The cash flow model incorporates actual cash flows from the securities through the current period and then projects the remaining cash flows using relevant interest rate curves over the remaining term. These cash flows are discounted using a number of assumptions, some of which include prevailing implied credit risk premiums, incremental credit spreads and illiquidity risk premiums, among others.
Securities that have been identified as other-than-temporarily impaired are written down to their current fair value. For debt securities that are intended to be sold or that management believes it more-likely-than-not that it will be required to sell prior to recovery, the full impairment is recognized immediately in earnings.
For available-for-sale and held-to-maturity securities that management has no intent to sell and believes that it more-likely-than-not that it will not be required to sell prior to recovery, only the credit loss component of the impairment is recognized in earnings, while the rest of the fair value impairment is recognized in other comprehensive income. The credit loss component recognized in earnings is identified as the amount of principal cash flows not expected to be received over the remaining term of the security.
As of June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, we did not recognize any other-than-temporary impairment losses.
On September 25, 2017, the Company entered into a commitment to invest $200 million (approximately 66.7% of equity) in the OCV Fund. The total expected commitment to the OCV Fund is expected to be approximately $300 million. The primary purpose of the Fund is to provide a limited number of select investors with the opportunity to realize long-term appreciation from public and private companies, with a particular focus on the technology and life science industries. The general activities of the OCV Fund is to buy, sell, hold and otherwise invest in securities of every kind and nature and rights and options with respect thereto, including, without limitation, stock, notes, bonds, debentures and evidence of indebtedness; to exercise all rights, powers, privileges and other incidents of ownership or possession with respect to securities held or owned by the OCV Fund; to enter into, make and perform all contracts and other undertakings; and to engage in all activities and transactions as may be necessary, advisable or desirable to carry out the foregoing.
During 2018, the Company received capital call notices from the management of OCV Management, LLC. for $34.6 million, inclusive of certain management fees, of which $21.7 million has been paid for the six months ended June 30, 2018. 
During the six months ended June 30, 2018, the Company recognized an investment loss of $3.0 million, net of tax benefit. The loss is presented in the Company’s condensed consolidated statement of income as loss from equity investments, net.
As a limited partner, the Company’s maximum exposure to loss is $17.7 million and is limited to its proportional ownership in the partnership. In addition, the Company’s is not required to contribute capital in an aggregate amount in excess of its capital commitment and any expected losses will not be in excess of the Capital Account. Finally, there are no call or put options, or other types of arrangements, which limit the Company’s ability to participate in losses and returns of the Fund.
 lLevel 1 – Observable inputs that reflect quoted prices (unadjusted) for identical assets or liabilities in active markets.
 lLevel 2 – Observable inputs other than quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities, quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in inactive markets, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.
 lLevel 3 – Unobservable inputs which are supported by little or no market activity.
The fair value hierarchy also requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value.
The Company’s debt securities are classified within Level 2. The Company values these Level 2 investments based on model-driven valuations using significant inputs derived from or corroborated by observable market data.
The fair value of our senior notes (8.0% senior unsecured notes at December 31, 2017 and 6.0% senior unsecured notes at June 30, 2018) (see Note 8 - Long-Term Debt) is determined using quoted market prices or dealer quotes for instruments with similar maturities and other terms and credit ratings, which are Level 2 inputs. The fair value of long-term debt at June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017 was $1.2 billion and $1.2 billion, respectively.
In addition, the Convertible Notes contain terms that may require the Company to pay contingent interest on the Convertible Notes which is accounted for as a derivative with fair value adjustments being recorded to interest expense (see Note 8 - Long Term Debt). This derivative is fair valued using a binomial lattice convertible bond pricing model using historical and implied market information, which are Level 2 inputs.
The Company classifies its contingent consideration liability in connection with acquisitions within Level 3 because factors used to develop the estimated fair value are unobservable inputs, such as volatility and market risks, and are not supported by market activity. The fair value of the contingent consideration liability was determined using option based approaches. This methodology was utilized because the distribution of payments is not symmetric and amounts are only payable upon certain earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”) thresholds being reached. Such valuation approach included a Monte-Carlo simulation for the contingency since the financial metric driving the payments is path dependent. Significant increases or decreases in either of the inputs noted above in isolation would result in a significantly lower or higher fair value measurement.
At the end of each reporting period, management reviews the inputs to the fair value measurements of financial and non-financial assets and liabilities to determine when transfers between levels are deemed to have occurred. For the six months ended June 30, 2018, there were no transfers that have occurred between levels.
In connection with the acquisition of Humble Bundle, on October 13, 2017, contingent consideration of up to an aggregate of $40.0 million may be payable upon achieving certain future EBITDA thresholds and had a fair value of $29.6 million and $19.7 million at June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.
In connection with the acquisition of blackfriday.com, on November 7, 2017, the Company achieved certain earnings targets and, as a result, contingent consideration of $0.8 million was paid to the seller during the first quarter 2018 in connection with this acquisition.
In connection with the acquisition of Mosaik Solutions, on June 18, 2018, contingent consideration of up to an aggregate of $1.0 million may be payable upon achieving certain income thresholds and had a fair value of $0.8 million at June 30, 2018.
During the six months ended June 30, 2018, the Company recorded an increase in the fair value of the contingent consideration of $9.9 million and reported such increase in general and administrative expenses.
Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired in a business combination. Intangible assets resulting from the acquisitions of entities accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting are recorded at the estimated fair value of the assets acquired. Identifiable intangible assets are comprised of purchased customer relationships, trademarks and trade names, developed technologies and other intangible assets. The fair values of these identified intangible assets are based upon expected future cash flows or income, which take into consideration certain assumptions such as customer turnover, trade names and patent lives. These determinations are primarily based upon the Company’s historical experience and expected benefit of each intangible asset. If it is determined that such assumptions are not accurate, then the resulting change will impact the fair value of the intangible asset. Identifiable intangible assets are amortized over the period of estimated economic benefit, which ranges from one to 20 years. 
On June 27, 2017, j2 Cloud Services, LLC (“j2 Cloud”) and j2 Cloud Co-Obligor (the “Co-Issuer” and together with j2 Cloud, the “Issuers”), wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Company, completed the issuance and sale of $650 million aggregate principal amount of their 6.0% senior notes due in 2025 (the “6.0% Senior Notes”) in a private placement offering exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933. The 6.0% Senior Notes are presented as long-term debt, net of deferred issuance costs, on the condensed consolidated balance sheets as of June 30, 2018. 
The 6.0% Senior Notes bear interest at a rate of 6.0% per annum, payable semi-annually in arrears on January 15 and July 15 of each year, commencing on January 15, 2018. The 6.0% Senior Notes mature on July 15, 2025, and are senior unsecured obligations of the Issuers and are guaranteed on an unsecured basis by certain subsidiaries of j2 Cloud (as defined in the Indenture agreement dated June 27, 2017, the “Indenture”). If j2 Cloud or any of its restricted subsidiaries acquires or creates a domestic restricted subsidiary, other than an insignificant subsidiary (as defined in the Indenture), after the issue date, or any insignificant subsidiary ceases to fit within the definition of insignificant subsidiary, such restricted subsidiary is required to unconditionally guarantee, jointly and severally, on an unsecured basis, the Issuers’ obligations under the 6.0% Senior Notes.
The Indenture contains certain restrictive and other covenants applicable to j2 Cloud and subsidiaries designated as restricted subsidiaries including, but not limited to, restrictions on (i) paying dividends or making distributions on j2 Cloud’s membership interests or repurchasing j2 Cloud’s membership interests; (ii) making certain restricted payments; (iii) creating liens or entering into sale and leaseback transactions; (iv) entering into transactions with affiliates; (v) merging or consolidating with another company; and (vi) transferring and selling assets. These covenants include certain exceptions. Violation of these covenants could result in a default which could result in the acceleration of outstanding amounts if such default is not cured or waived within the time periods outlined in the Indenture. Restricted payments, specifically dividend payments, are applicable only if j2 Cloud and subsidiaries designated as restricted subsidiaries has a leverage ratio of greater than 3.0 to 1.0. In addition, if such leverage ratio is in excess of 3.0 to 1.0, the restriction on restricted payments is subject to various exceptions, including an exception for the payment of restricted payments up to $75 million. These contractual provisions did not, as of June 30, 2018, restrict j2 Cloud’s ability to pay dividends to j2 Global, Inc. The company is in compliance with its debt covenants as of June 30, 2018.
As of June 30, 2018, the estimated fair value of the 6.0% Senior Notes was approximately $658.1 million and was based on the quoted market prices of debt instruments with similar terms, credit rating and maturities of the 6.0% Senior Notes which are Level 2 inputs (see Note 6 - Fair Value Measurements).
As of June 30, 2018, the conversion rate is 14.6399 shares of j2 Global common stock for each $1,000 principal amount of Convertible Notes, which represents a conversion price of approximately $68.31 per share of j2 Global common stock. The conversion rate is subject to adjustment for certain events as set forth in the indenture governing the Convertible Notes, but will not be adjusted for accrued interest. In addition, following certain corporate events that occur on or prior to June 20, 2021, j2 Global will increase the conversion rate for a holder that elects to convert its Convertible Notes in connection with such a corporate event.
Holders have the right to require j2 Global to repurchase for cash all or part of their Convertible Notes on each of June 15, 2021 and June 15, 2024 at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Convertible Notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the relevant repurchase date. In addition, if a fundamental change, as defined in the indenture governing the Convertible Notes, occurs prior to the maturity date, holders may require j2 Global to repurchase for cash all or part of their Convertible Notes at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Convertible Notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the fundamental change repurchase date.
In accordance with ASC 470-20, Debt with Conversion and Other Options, convertible debt that can be settled for cash is required to be separated into the liability and equity component at issuance, with each component assigned a value. The value assigned to the liability component is the estimated fair value, as of the issuance date, of similar debt without the conversion feature. The difference between the cash proceeds and estimated fair value of the liability component, representing the value of the conversion premium assigned to the equity component, is recorded as a debt discount on the issuance date. This debt discount is amortized to interest expense using the effective interest method over the period from the issuance date through the first stated repurchase date on June 15, 2021.
The Convertible Notes are carried at face value less any unamortized debt discount and debt issuance costs. The fair value of the Convertible Notes at each balance sheet date is determined based on recent quoted market prices or dealer quotes for the Convertible Notes, which are Level 1 inputs (see Note 6 - Fair Value Measurements). If such information is not available, the fair value is determined using cash-flow models of the scheduled payments discounted at market interest rates for comparable debt without the conversion feature. As of June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the estimated fair value of the Convertible Notes was approximately $539.4 million and $504.5 million, respectively.
On February 17, 2011, Emmanuel Pantelakis (“Pantelakis”) filed suit against a j2 Global affiliate in the Ontario Superior Court of Justice (No. 11-50673), alleging that the j2 Global affiliate breached a contract relating to Pantelakis’s use of the Campaigner service. The j2 Global affiliate filed a responsive pleading on March 23, 2011 and responses to undertakings on July 16, 2012. On November 6, 2012, Pantelakis filed a second amended statement of claim, reframing his lawsuit as a negligence action. The j2 Global affiliate filed an amended statement of defense on April 8, 2013. Discovery has closed. A judicial pre-trial has been set for September 27, 2018, with an anticipated trial date of January 2020.
On January 17, 2013, the Commissioner of the Massachusetts Department of Revenue (“Commissioner”) issued a notice of assessment to a j2 Global affiliate for sales and use tax for the period of July 1, 2003 through December 31, 2011. On July 22, 2014, the Commissioner denied the j2 Global affiliate’s application for abatement. On September 18, 2014, the j2 Global affiliate petitioned the Massachusetts Appellate Tax Board for abatement of the tax asserted in the notice of assessment (No. C325426). A trial was held on December 16, 2015. On May 18, 2017, the Appellate Board decided in favor of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. The j2 Global affiliate has requested the findings of fact and conclusions of law from the Appellate Board.
The Company’s tax provision for interim periods is determined using an estimate of the Company’s annual effective tax rate adjusted for discrete interim period tax impacts. Each quarter the Company updates its estimated annual effective tax rate and, if the estimate changes, makes a cumulative adjustment. The Company’s effective tax rate was 18.3% and 22.8% for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and 21.8% and 24.6% for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Income before income taxes included income from domestic operations of $0.2 million and $9.2 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and income from foreign operations of $64.1 million and $66.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The Company is subject to a territorial tax system under the 2017 Tax Act, in which it is required to provide for tax on GILTI earned by certain foreign subsidiaries. Additionally, the Company is required to make an accounting policy election to either recognize deferred taxes for temporary basis differences expected to reverse as GILTI in future years or provide for the tax expense related to GILTI in the year the tax is incurred as a period expense. As of June 30, 2018, the Company is still evaluating the effects of the GILTI provisions as guidance and interpretations continue to emerge. Therefore, the Company has not determined its accounting policy on the GILTI provisions. However, the standard requires that the Company reflect the impact of the GILTI provisions as a period expense until the accounting policy is finalized. Therefore, the Company has included the provisional estimate of GILTI related to current-year operations in its estimated annual effective tax rate only and will be updating the impact and accounting policy as the analysis related to the GILTI provisions is completed.
Cash paid for income taxes net of refunds received was $16.6 million and $26.5 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Certain taxes are prepaid during the year and, where appropriate, included within prepaid expenses and other current assets on the consolidated balance sheet. The Company’s prepaid taxes were $8.8 million and $6.0 million at June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.
In July 2016, the Company acquired and subsequently retired 935,231 shares of j2 Global common stock in connection with the acquisition of Integrated Global Concepts, Inc. As a result of the purchase of j2 Global common stock, the Company’s Board of Directors approved a reduction in the number of shares available for purchase under the 2012 Program by the same amount leaving 1,938,689 shares of j2 Global common stock available for purchase under this program. During the six month period ended June 30, 2018, we repurchased zero shares under this program. Cumulatively at June 30, 2018, 2.1 million shares were repurchased at an aggregate cost of $58.6 million (including an immaterial amount of commission fees).
Periodically, participants in j2 Global’s stock plans surrender to the Company shares of j2 Global stock to pay the exercise price or to satisfy tax withholding obligations arising upon the exercise of stock options or the vesting of restricted stock. During the three month period ended June 30, 2018, the Company purchased 31,839 shares from plan participants for this purpose.
Future dividends are subject to Board approval.
12.Stock Options and Employee Stock Purchase Plan
The 2007 Plan provides for the granting of incentive stock options, nonqualified stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units and other share-based awards. 4,500,000 shares of j2 Global common stock are authorized to be used for 2007 Plan purposes. Options under the 2007 Plan may be granted at exercise prices determined by the Board of Directors, provided that the exercise prices shall not be less than the fair market value of j2 Global’s common stock on the date of grant for incentive stock options and not less than 85% of the fair market value of j2 Global’s common stock on the date of grant for non-statutory stock options. As of June 30, 2018, 253,667 shares underlying options and 7,460 shares of restricted units were outstanding under the 2007 Plan. The 2007 Plan terminated on February 14, 2017.
The 2015 Plan provides for the granting of incentive stock options, nonqualified stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance shares, performance share units and other share-based awards and is intended as a successor plan to the 2007 Stock Plan since no further grants will be made under the 2007 Stock Plan. 4,200,000 shares of j2 Global common stock are authorized to be used for 2015 Plan purposes. Options under the 2015 Plan may be granted at exercise prices determined by the Board of Directors, provided that the exercise prices shall not be less than the higher of the par value or 100% of the fair market value of j2 Global’s common stock subject to the option on the date the option is granted. As of June 30, 2018, 462,000 shares underlying options and 44,884 shares of restricted stock units were outstanding under the 2015 Plan.
All stock option grants are approved by “outside directors” within the meaning of Internal Revenue Code Section 162(m).
The Company recognized $0.2 million and $50,000 of compensation expense related to stock options for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $0.5 million and $0.1 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. As of June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, unrecognized stock compensation related to non-vested stock options granted under each of the share-based compensation plans approximated $7.4 million and $0.2 million, respectively. Unrecognized stock compensation expense related to non-vested stock options granted under these plans is expected to be recognized ratably over a weighted-average period of 7.4 years (i.e., the remaining requisite service period).
j2 Global uses the Black-Scholes option pricing model to calculate the fair value of each option grant. The expected volatility is based on historical volatility of the Company’s common stock. The Company estimates the expected term based upon the historical exercise behavior of our employees. The risk-free interest rate is based on U.S. Treasury zero-coupon issues with a term equal to the expected term of the option assumed at the date of grant. The Company uses an annualized dividend yield based upon the per share dividends declared by its Board of Directors. Estimated forfeiture rates were 10.59% and 14.43% as of June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
j2 Global has awarded restricted stock and restricted stock units to its Board of Directors and senior staff pursuant to certain share-based compensation plans. Compensation expense resulting from restricted stock and restricted unit grants is measured at fair value on the date of grant and is recognized as share-based compensation expense over the applicable vesting period. Vesting periods are approximately one year for awards to members of the Company’s Board of Directors, five years for senior staff (excluding market-based awards discussed below) and eight years for the Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”). 
j2 Global has awarded certain key employees market-based restricted stock awards pursuant to the 2015 Plan. The market-based awards have vesting conditions that are based on specified stock price targets of the Company’s common stock. Market conditions were factored into the grant date fair value using a Monte Carlo valuation model, which utilized multiple input variables to determine the probability of the Company achieving the specified stock price targets with a 20-day and 30-day lookback (trading days). Stock-based compensation expense related to an award with a market condition will be recognized over the requisite service period using the graded-vesting method regardless of whether the market condition is satisfied, provided that the requisite service period has been completed. During the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, the Company awarded 473,501 and 85,825 market-based restricted stock awards, respectively. The per share weighted average grant-date fair values of the market-based restricted stock awards granted during the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 were $52.95 and $72.20, respectively.
The Company recognized $6.6 million and $5.5 million of compensation expense related to restricted stock and restricted stock units for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $12.8 million and $9.1 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. As of June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the Company had unrecognized share-based compensation cost of approximately $75.9 million and $36.6 million, respectively, associated with these awards. This cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 5.8 years for awards and 3.6 years for units.
The Purchase Plan provides for the issuance of a maximum of two million shares of the Company’s common stock. Under the Purchase Plan, eligible employees can have up to 15% of their earnings withheld, up to certain maximums, to be used to purchase shares of j2 Global common stock at certain plan-defined dates. The price of the j2 Global common stock purchased under the Purchase Plan for the offering periods is equal to 95% of the fair market value of the j2 Global common stock at the end of the offering period. On February 2, 2018, the Company approved an amendment to the Company’s Amended and Restated 2001 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, to be effective May 1, 2018, such that (i) the purchase price for each offering period shall be 85% of the lesser of the fair market value of a share of common stock of the Company (a “Share”) on the beginning or the end of the offering period, rather than 95% of the fair market value of a Share at the end of the offering period, and (ii) each offering period will be six months, rather than three months.
j2 Global performed an analysis of the Amendment terms and determined that a plan provision exists which allows for the more favorable of two exercise prices, commonly referred to as a “look-back” feature. The purchase price discount and the look-back feature cause the Purchase Plan to be compensatory and the Company to recognize compensation expense. The compensation cost is recognized on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period. The Company used the Black-Scholes option pricing model to calculate the estimated fair value of the purchase right issued under the ESPP. The expected volatility is based on historical volatility of the Company’s common stock. The risk-free interest rate is based on U.S. Treasury zero-coupon issues with a term equal to the expected term of the option assumed at the date of grant. The Company uses an annualized dividend yield based upon the per share dividends declared by its Board of Directors. Estimated forfeiture rates were 0.10% as of June 30, 2018.
For the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, 1,781 and 1,606 shares were purchased under the Purchase Plan, respectively. Cash received upon the issuance of j2 Global common stock under the Purchase Plan was $135,000 and $133,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. As of June 30, 2018, 1,621,462 shares were available under the Purchase Plan for future issuance.
The Company recognized $0.2 million and zero of compensation expense related to the Purchase Plan for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $0.2 million and zero of compensation expense related to the Purchase Plan for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
For the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, there were zero options outstanding, respectively, which were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share because the exercise prices were greater than the average market price of the common stock. For the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, there were zero options outstanding, respectively, which were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share because the exercise prices were greater than the average market price of the common stock. 
The Company’s Cloud Services segment is driven primarily by subscription revenues that are relatively higher margin, stable and predictable from quarter to quarter with some seasonal weakness in the fourth quarter. The Cloud Services segment also includes the results of our IP licensing business, which can vary dramatically in both revenues and profitability from period to period. The Company’s Digital Media segment is driven primarily by advertising revenues, has relatively higher sales and marketing expense and has seasonal strength in the fourth quarter. 
j2 Global maintains operations in the U.S., Canada, Ireland, Japan and other countries. Geographic information about the U.S. and all other countries for the reporting periods is presented below. Such information attributes revenues based on jurisdictions where revenues are reported (in thousands).
15.Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income
On July 6, 2018, the Company paid a capital call notice from the management of OCV Management, LLC, for approximately $12.9 million, inclusive of certain management fees.
On July 13, 2018, in a cash transaction, the Company acquired certain assets of bestblackfriday.com, an online business providing deals, offers, commerce related content and email marketing to consumers.
On July 19, 2018, in a cash transaction, the Company acquired through a share purchase all the issued capital of DemandShore Inc., a provider of lead generation to sales and marketing professionals across B2B technology companies globally.
On August 8, 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors approved a quarterly cash dividend of $0.4250 per share of j2 Global common stock payable on September 4, 2018 to all stockholders of record as of the close of business on August 20, 2018.
See Note 9 – Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1) for information regarding certain legal proceedings in which we are involved.
Item 1A. Risk Factors
Furthermore, much of our Digital Media e-commerce revenue comes from arrangements in which we are paid by retailers to promote their digital product and service offers on our sites. Certain states have implemented regulations that require retailers to collect and remit sales taxes on sales made to residents of such states if a publisher, such as us, that facilitated that sale is a resident of such state. Paid retailers in our marketplace that do not currently have sales tax nexus in any state that subsequently passes similar regulations and in which we have operations, employees or contractors now or in the future, may significantly alter the manner in which they pay us, cease paying us for sales we facilitate for that retailer in such state, or cease using our marketplace, each of which could adversely impact our business, financial condition, and operating results.
The use of consumer data by online service providers and advertising networks is a topic of active interest among federal, state, and international regulatory bodies, and the regulatory environment is unsettled and evolving. Federal, state, and international laws and regulations govern the collection, use, retention, disclosure, sharing, and security of data that we receive from and about our users. Our privacy and cookie policies and practices concerning the collection, use, and disclosure of user data are posted on our websites.
A number of U.S. federal laws, including those referenced below, impact our business. The Digital Millennium Copyright Act (“DMCA”) is intended, in part, to limit the liability of eligible online service providers for listing or linking to third-party websites that include materials that infringe copyrights or other rights of others. Portions of the Communications Decency Act (“CDA”) are intended to provide statutory protections to online service providers who distribute third-party content. We rely on the protections provided by both the DMCA and the CDA in conducting our business. If these or other laws or judicial interpretations are changed to narrow their protections, or if international jurisdictions refuse to apply similar provisions in foreign lawsuits, we will be subject to greater risk of liability, our costs of compliance with these regulations or to defend litigation may increase, or our ability to operate certain lines of business may be limited. The Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act (“COPPA”) is intended to impose restrictions on the ability of online services to collect some types of information from children under the age of 13. In addition, the Providing Resources, Officers, and Technology to Eradicate Cyber Threats to Our Children Act of 2008 (“PROTECT Act”) requires online service providers to report evidence of violations of federal child pornography laws under certain circumstances, as well as other federal, state or international laws and legislative efforts designed to protect children on the internet may impose additional requirements on us. U.S. export control laws and regulations impose requirements and restrictions on exports to certain nations and persons and on our business.
Many third-parties are examining whether the Americans with Disabilities Act (“ADA”) concept of public accommodation also extends to websites and to mobile applications. Generally, some plaintiffs have argued that websites and mobile applications are places of public accommodation under Title III of the ADA and, as such, must be equipped so that individuals with disabilities can navigate and make use of subject websites and mobile applications. The issue is currently under litigation and there is a split in the federal court of appeals circuits as to what the ADA requires. Certain appellate circuits have found that websites standing alone are subject to the ADA and therefore must be accessible to people with disabilities. Other circuits, including the Ninth Circuit, which has appellate jurisdiction over federal district courts in California and is where our company is headquartered, have found that in order for websites to be places of public accommodation, and therefore subject to the ADA there must be both a nexus between the website and the goods and services the website provides as well as a physical brick and mortar location for consumers. We cannot predict how the ADA will ultimately be interpreted as applied to websites and mobile applications.
As of May 25, 2018, certain data transfers from and between the European Union (“EU”) are subject to the GDPR. The GDPR prohibits data transfers from the EU to other countries outside of the EU, including the U.S., without appropriate security safeguards and practices in place. Previously, for certain data transfers from and between the EU and the U.S., j2 Global, like many other companies, had relied on what is referred to as the “EU-U.S. Safe Harbor,” in order to comply with privacy obligations imposed by EU countries. The European Court of Justice invalidated the EU-U.S. Safe Harbor. Although U.S. and EU policymakers approved a new framework known as “Privacy Shield” that would allow companies like us to continue to rely on some form of a safe harbor for the transfer of certain data from the EU to the U.S., the Privacy Shield may not be adequate for all data transfers between the EU and U.S. It is also unclear whether the United Kingdom (“UK”) will offer a similar program to Privacy Shield if the UK leaves the EU. Additionally, other countries that relied on the EU-U.S. Safe Harbor that were not part of the EU have also found that data transfers to the U.S. are no longer valid based on the European Court of Justice ruling. We cannot predict how or if this issue will be resolved nor can we evaluate any potential liability at this time.
The Company has put into place various alternative frameworks and grounds on which to rely in order to be in compliance with relevant law for the transfer of data from overseas locations to the U.S. including reviewing Company’s data collection process, procedures and putting into place Data Processing Agreements with vendors, partners and other third parties. Some independent data regulators have adopted the position that other forms of compliance are also invalid though the legal grounds for these findings remain unclear at this time. We cannot predict at this time whether the alternative grounds that j2 Global continues to implement will be found to be consistent with relevant laws nor can we evaluate what, if any, potential liability may be at this time.
On June 28, 2018, the California legislature enacted the CCPA, which imposes numerous regulations related to the processing of personal data of California consumers. The Company is assessing the impact of this law on its business and operations. 
The GDPR imposes significant compliance costs and exposes the Company to substantial risks.
