fls.txt



item1.txt
The Company reclassified immaterial amounts of $1.9 and $5.9 from cost of sales to selling and administrative expense for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively.
The Company also corrected an immaterial amount of $3.9 for the nine months ended September 30, 2019.
The Company reclassified an immaterial amount of $8.1 for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 within the operating activities of the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows between depreciation and amortization and certain other assets and liabilities to correct its presentation.
The Company utilizes both operating and finance leases in its portfolio of leased assets, however, the majority of these leases are classified as operating.
•The Company declined the hindsight practical expedient to determine the lease term and ROU asset impairment for existing leases.
Certain lease agreements include payments based on a variety of global indexes or rates.
These payment amounts have been projected using the index or rate as of lease commencement or the transition date and measured in ROU assets and lease liabilities.
Other leases contain variable payments that are based on actual usage of the underlying assets and, therefore, are not measured in assets or liabilities as the variable payments are not based on an index or a rate.
For real estate leases, these payments are most often tied to non-committed maintenance or utilities charges, and for equipment leases, to actual output or hours in operation.
These amounts typically become known when the invoice is received, which is when expense is recognized.
As of September 30, 2019, the Company did not have any material leases that have not yet commenced but that create significant rights and obligations.
ROU assets and liabilities are recognized at commencement date and initially measured based on the present value of lease payments over the defined lease term.
As most leases do not provide an implicit rate, the Company uses its incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments.
For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, there were no differences in the earnings (loss) per share amounts calculated under the two methods.
Total share-based compensation expense was $5.3 and $6.9 for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and was $19.4 and $27.2 for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The change resulted in an immaterial increase in share-based compensation expense in the first quarter of 2019.
Share-based compensation decreased $7.8 to $19.4 for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 primarily due to a reduction in performance shares awarded in 2019.


item2.txt
The Company’s operating structure is focused on its two customer segments — Banking and Retail.
Leveraging a broad portfolio of solutions, the Company offers its clients the flexibility to purchase the combination of services, software and systems that drive the most value to their business.
Branch and store automation helps financial institutions and retailers grow revenue, reduce costs, and increase convenience and security for their customers by migrating routine transactions, typically done inside the branch or store, to lower-cost automated channels.
The Company provides integrated solutions for financial institutions of all sizes designed to help drive operational efficiencies, differentiate the consumer experience, grow revenue and manage risk.
Managed services and outsourcing consists of managing the end-to-end business processes, technology integration and day-to-day operation of the self-service channel and the bank branch.
Our integrated business solutions include self-service fleet management, branch life-cycle management and ATM as-a-service capabilities.
These holistic, digitally-connected solutions are built upon an integrated software and services model and provided a modern and personalized experience for consumers, while delivering maximum efficiency and reliability for financial institutions.
The Company’s software encompasses front-end applications for consumer connection points as well as back-end platforms which manage channel transactions, operations and channel integration.
The Company's DN Vynamic software is the first end-to-end Connected Commerce software portfolio in the banking marketplace designed to simplify and enhance the consumer experience.
The Company’s comprehensive portfolio of retail solutions, software and services improves the checkout process for retailers while enhancing shopping experiences for consumers.


item3.txt



item4.txt
This quarterly report on Form 10-Q includes the certifications of the Company's Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO) required by Rule 13a-14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act).


part2.txt



