fls.txt



item1.txt
The Company included finance lease receivables of $13.3 and $14.4 in other assets as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, in the condensed consolidated balance sheets.
The Company's payment terms vary depending on the individual contracts and are generally fixed fee.
Third-party freight payments are recorded in cost of sales.
The Company includes a warranty in connection with certain contracts with customers, which are not considered to be separate performance obligations.
For additional information on product warranty refer to note 9.
The Company also has extended warranty and service contracts available for its customers, which are recognized as separate performance obligations.
Revenue is recognized on these contracts ratably as the Company has a stand-ready obligation to provide services when or as needed by the customer.
Managed services and outsourcing consists of the end-to-end business processes, solution management, upgrades and transaction processing.
For bundled packages, the Company accounts for individual services separately if they are distinct.
The stand-alone selling prices are determined based on the prices at which the Company separately sells the services.
Revenue on service contracts is recognized ratably over time, generally using an input measure, as the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits of the Company’s performance as the services are performed.
In some circumstances, when global service supply chain services are not included in a term contract and rather billed as they occur, revenue on these billed work services are recognized at a point in time as transfer of control occurs.
The Company applies the ‘as invoiced’ practical expedient related to performance obligations satisfied over time which permits the Company to recognize revenue in the amount to which it has a right to invoice the customer if that amount corresponds directly with the value to the customer of the Company’s performance completed to date.
These hardware-agnostic software applications facilitate millions of transactions via automated teller machines (ATMs), point of sale (POS) terminals, kiosks and other self-service devices.
Revenue from professional services are recognized over time, because the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits of the Company’s performance as the services are performed.
In the case of more significant professional services agreements, when the Company’s performance creates an asset with no alternative use to the Company and the Company has an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date, revenue is also recognized over time.
For retail customers, the checkout portfolio includes modular, integrated and mobile POS systems that meet evolving automation and omnichannel requirements of consumers.
For bundled packages, the Company accounts for individual system products separately if they are distinct - i.e. if a product or service is separately identifiable from other items in the bundled package and if a customer can benefit from it on its own or with other resources that are readily available to the customer.
The stand-alone selling prices are determined based on the prices at which the Company separately sells the products.


item2.txt
The Company's approximately 23,000 employees service our customer's integrated solutions and design and deliver convenient, "always on" and highly secure solutions that bridge the physical and the digital worlds of transactions.
Commensurate with its strategy, the Company is executing a multi-year integration and transformation program which aligns employee activities with the Company's goal of realizing $240 of cost reduction by the year 2020.
As a result, the Company will be implementing a streamlined operating model with clearer and more consistent spans of control.
These offerings enable customers to meet the growing demand for transaction availability at ATMs, POS, self-checkout systems (SCO) and other distributed assets in a cost-effective manner.
It is a new breed of as-a-service offering, designed to power the business operations of financial institutions, credit unions and retailers.
Managed services and outsourcing consists of managing the end-to-end business processes, technology integration and day-to-day operation of the self-service channel, bank branch and retail store networks.
Our integrated business solutions include store lifecycle management, self-service fleet management, branch lifecycle management, ATM as-a-service and managed mobility services.
In October 2017, the Company introduced Vynamic, the first end-to-end Connected Commerce software portfolio in the banking and retail marketplace.
Through collaboration with customers, engineering excellence and an efficient supply chain, the Company delivers industry-leading customer touchpoints to financial institutions, retailers and other customers.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt



