fls.txt



item1.txt
•The Company declined the hindsight practical expedient to determine the lease term and ROU asset impairment for existing leases.
The decision to decline the hindsight practical expedient resulted in relying on assessments made under ASC 840 during transition and re-assessing under ASC 842 going forward.
The weighted-average discount rates used for operating and finance leases varies due to the jurisdictional composition, whereas the Company has an immaterial amount of finance leases that are primarily comprised of leases in Turkey which have higher interest rates.
These payment amounts have been projected using the index or rate as of lease commencement or the transition date and measured in ROU assets and lease liabilities.
Other leases contain variable payments that are based on actual usage of the underlying assets and therefore are not measured in assets or liabilities as the variable payments are not based on an index or a rate.
For real estate leases, these payments are most often tied to non-committed maintenance or utilities charges, and for equipment leases, to actual output or hours in operation.
As of March 31, 2019, the Company did not have any leases that have not yet commenced but that create significant rights and obligations.
ROU assets and liabilities are recognized at commencement date and initially measured based on the present value of lease payments over the defined lease term.
As most leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments.
The Company calculated basic and diluted earnings (loss) per share under both the treasury stock method and the two-class method.
For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, there were no differences in the earnings (loss) per share amounts calculated under the two methods.
Share-based compensation is primarily recognized as a component of selling and administrative expense.
Total share-based compensation expense was $9.3 and $13.7 for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The change resulted in an immaterial increase in share-based compensation expense for the three months ended March 31, 2019.
The effective tax rate on loss from continuing operations was (85.0) percent for the three months ended March 31, 2019.
The effective tax rate on the net loss was (40.4) percent for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
The expense on the loss is due primarily from impacts related to GILTI on the estimated annual tax rate.


item2.txt
The Company’s operating structure is focused on its two customer segments - Banking and Retail.
Branch and store automation helps financial institutions and retailers grow revenue, reduce costs, and increase convenience and security for their customers by migrating routine transactions, typically done inside the branch or store, to lower-cost automated channels.
The Company’s advisory services team collaborates with its clients to define the ideal customer experience, modify processes, refine existing staffing models and deploy technologies that meet business objectives.
The Company provides integrated solutions for financial institutions of all sizes designed to help drive operational efficiencies, differentiate the consumer experience, grow revenue and manage risk.
Managed services and outsourcing consists of managing the end-to-end business processes, technology integration and day-to-day operation of the self-service channel and the bank branch.
Our integrated business solutions include self-service fleet management, branch life-cycle management and ATM as-a-service capabilities.
The Company’s software encompasses front-end applications for consumer connection points as well as back-end platforms which manage channel transactions, operations and integration.
In 2017, the Company introduced DN Vynamic™ Software, the first end-to-end Connected Commerce software portfolio in the banking marketplace designed to simplify and enhance the consumer experience.
In addition, DN Vynamic suite's open application program interface (API) architecture is built to simplify operations by eliminating the traditional focus on internal silos and enabling tomorrow's inter-connected partnerships between financial institutions and payment providers.
The Company’s comprehensive portfolio of retail solutions, software and services improves the checkout process for retailers while enhancing shopping experiences for consumers.


item3.txt



item4.txt
This quarterly report on Form 10-Q includes the certifications of the Company's Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO) required by Rule 13a-14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act).


part2.txt
There have been no material developments with respect to the legal proceedings reported in the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.


