fls.txt



item1.txt
As a result of applying the correction retrospectively, previously reported service cost of sales for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 increased by $1.0 and $3.0, respectively, and previously reported net income and basic and diluted earnings per share decreased by $0.6 and $0.01 and $1.9 and $0.02, respectively.
The Company included finance lease receivables of $14.9 and $14.4 in other assets as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, in the condensed consolidated balance sheets.
The Company reclassified $8.0 from other current assets to restricted cash as of December 31, 2017 in the condensed consolidated balance sheets and was included in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash as of September 30, 2017 in the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows.
In certain contracts where services are provided prior to billing, the Company recognizes a contract asset within trade receivables and other current assets.
Third-party freight payments are recorded in cost of sales.
The Company includes a warranty in connection with certain contracts with customers, which are not considered to be separate performance obligations.
For additional information on product warranty refer to note 9.
The Company also has extended warranty and service contracts available for its customers, which are recognized as separate performance obligations.
Revenue is recognized on these contracts ratably as the Company has a stand-ready obligation to provide services when or as needed by the customer.
Managed services and outsourcing consists of the end-to-end business processes, solution management, upgrades and transaction processing.
The Company's hardware-agnostic software applications facilitate millions of transactions via automated teller machines (ATMs), point of sale (POS) terminals, kiosks, and other self-service devices.
The Company’s software solution includes its professional services team, who provides systems integration, customization, consulting and project management.
The Company considered ASC 606-10-32-34(c)(2), which provides the criteria that "the entity has not yet established a price for that good or service, and the good or service has not previously been sold on a standalone basis (that is, the selling price is uncertain)."
The percentage of the Company's consolidated net sales recognized from integration and customization of software represented approximately one percent for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017.
Revenue from professional services are recognized over time, because the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits of the Company’s performance as the services are performed or when the Company’s performance creates an asset with no alternative use to the Company and the Company has an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date.
The retail product portfolio includes modular, integrated and mobile POS and self-checkout (SCO) terminals that meet evolving automation and omnichannel requirements of consumers.
For bundled packages, the Company accounts for individual services separately if they are distinct.
Revenue on service contracts is recognized ratably over time, generally using an input measure, as the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits of the Company’s performance as the services are performed.


item2.txt
•Initiated a services modernization program which includes updating customer touchpoints (ATM or POS), automating incident reporting and responses, and standardizing offerings and internal support processes.
•Increased its ownership stake in Diebold Nixdorf AG to 27.7 shares, or approximately 93 percent, as of September 30, 2018.
•Won Windows 10 ATM product upgrade contracts with several North America financial institutions, including an agreement with a regional United States (U.S.) bank for more than 500 DN Vynamic software licenses and a new managed services agreement.
The Company’s operating structure is focused on its two customer segments - Banking and Retail.
Leveraging a broad portfolio of solutions, the Company offers customers the flexibility to purchase the combination of services, software and systems that drive the most value to their business.
The Company provides integrated solutions for financial institutions of all sizes - tailored to help drive operational efficiencies, differentiate the consumer experience, grow revenue and manage risk.
Diebold Nixdorf AllConnectSM Services is a new breed of as-a-service offering, designed to power the business operations of financial institutions of all sizes.
Our integrated business solutions include self-service fleet management, branch life-cycle management and ATM as-a-service capabilities.
From a software perspective, the Company provides financial institutions with front-end applications for consumer connection points as well as back-end platforms that manage channel transactions, operations and integration.
These hardware-agnostic software applications facilitate millions of transactions via ATMs, kiosks, and other self-service devices, as well as via digital channels such as online and mobile.


item3.txt
The Company operates in Argentina through a wholly-owned subsidiary, Diebold Argentina, S.A.


item4.txt
This quarterly report on Form 10-Q includes the certifications of the Company's Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO) required by Rule 13a-14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act).


part2.txt
There have been no material developments with respect to the legal proceedings reported in the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.


