fls.txt



item1.txt
The Company reclassified an immaterial amount of $5.4 for the six months ended June 30, 2018 within the operating activities of the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows between depreciation and amortization and certain other assets and liabilities to correct its presentation.
The Company utilizes both operating and finance leases in its portfolio of leased assets, however, the majority of these leases are classified as operating.
•The Company declined the hindsight practical expedient to determine the lease term and ROU asset impairment for existing leases.
These payment amounts have been projected using the index or rate as of lease commencement or the transition date and measured in ROU assets and lease liabilities.
Other leases contain variable payments that are based on actual usage of the underlying assets and therefore are not measured in assets or liabilities as the variable payments are not based on an index or a rate.
For real estate leases, these payments are most often tied to non-committed maintenance or utilities charges, and for equipment leases, to actual output or hours in operation.
These amounts typically become known when the invoice is received, which is when expense is recognized.
As of June 30, 2019, the Company did not have any material leases that have not yet commenced but that create significant rights and obligations.
As most leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments.
The Company calculated basic and diluted earnings (loss) per share under both the treasury stock method and the two-class method.
For the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, there were no differences in the earnings (loss) per share amounts calculated under the two methods.
Total share-based compensation expense was $4.8 and $6.6 for the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and was $14.1 and $20.3 for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The change resulted in an immaterial increase in share-based compensation expense in the first quarter of 2019.
Share-based compensation decreased $6.2 to $14.1 for the six months ended June 30, 2019 primarily due to a reduction in shares awarded in 2019.
Performance shares are granted to employees and vest based on the achievement of certain performance objectives, as determined by the board of directors each year.
The effective tax rate on loss from continuing operations was (20.0) percent for the three months ended June 30, 2019 and (59.5) percent for the six months ended June 30, 2019. its Barbados structure to meet the covenant requirements under its credit agreement, which resulted in additional discrete tax expense, which was offset in part by the valuation allowance release relating to the Company’s nondeductible interest expense that was carried forward from December 31, 2018.
The effective tax rate on loss from continuing operations was 18.8 percent for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 5.1 percent for the six months ended June 30, 2018.


item2.txt
•Benefited from solid growth in self-checkout (SCO) demand from a number of European customers, including a $7.0 contract with U.K.-based retailer, Co-Op, for more than 400 self-checkout terminals and related services The Company’s integrated solutions connect digital and physical channels conveniently, securely and efficiently for millions of consumers every day.
As an innovation partner for nearly all of the world's top 100 financial institutions and a majority of the top 25 global retailers, the Company delivers unparalleled services and technology that power the daily operations and consumer experience of banks and retailers around the world.
In order to achieve these savings, the Company has and will continue to restructure the workforce, integrate and optimize systems and processes, transition workloads to lower cost locations and consolidate real estate holdings.
The Company’s operating structure is focused on its two customer segments - Banking and Retail.
The Company’s advisory services team collaborates with its clients to define the ideal customer experience, modify processes, refine existing staffing models and deploy technologies that meet business objectives.
The Company provides integrated solutions for financial institutions of all sizes designed to help drive operational efficiencies, differentiate the consumer experience, grow revenue and manage risk.
Managed services and outsourcing consists of managing the end-to-end business processes, technology integration and day-to-day operation of the self-service channel and the bank branch.
Our integrated business solutions include self-service fleet management, branch life-cycle management and ATM as-a-service capabilities.
The Company’s software encompasses front-end applications for consumer connection points as well as back-end platforms which manage channel transactions, operations and channel integration.
The Company's DN Vynamic software is the first end-to-end Connected Commerce software portfolio in the banking marketplace designed to simplify and enhance the consumer experience.
The Company’s comprehensive portfolio of retail solutions, software and services improves the checkout process for retailers while enhancing shopping experiences for consumers.


item3.txt



item4.txt
This quarterly report on Form 10-Q includes the certifications of the Company's Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO) required by Rule 13a-14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act).


part2.txt



