fls.txt
All forward-looking statements in this Form10-Q are based upon information available to the Company on the date of this Form10-Q, and the Company assumes no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements.


item1.txt



item2.txt
Issuer Direct Corporation (Issuer Direct Corporation and its subsidiaries are hereinafter collectively referred to as “Issuer Direct”, the “Company”, “We” or “Our” unless otherwise noted).
Our corporate offices are located at 500 Perimeter Park Drive, Suite D, Morrisville, North Carolina, 27560.
We use these channels to communicate with our investors and the public about our company, our products and services and other related matters.
It is possible that information we post on some of these channels could be deemed to be material information.
Issuer Direct is an industry-leading global communications and compliance company focusing on the needs of corporate issuers.
Issuer Direct's principal platform, Platform id.™, empowers users by thoughtfully integrating the most relevant tools, technologies and products, thus eliminating the complexity associated with producing and distributing their business communications and financial information.
We work with a diverse customer base, which not only includes corporate issuers, but also professional firms, such as investor relations and public relations firms, and the accounting and the legal communities.
Corporate issuers and their service providers utilize Platform id.
and related services from document creation all the way to dissemination to regulatory bodies, platforms and shareholders.
As part of our Platform and Technology strategy, we have been working with several select stock exchanges, whereby we make available certain parts of our platform, under agreement, to integrate our offerings.
is our primary cloud-based subscription platform that efficiently and effectively helps manage the events of our customers seeking to distribute their messaging to key constituents, investors, markets and regulatory systems around the globe.
consists of several related but distinct shareholder communications and compliance modules.
Certain of these capabilities were historically part of our disclosure management and shareholder communications offerings, but are now included into our fully integrated platform.
Currently, approximately 60% of our ACCESSWIRE revenue is on a subscription basis.
On July 3, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Filing Services Canada Inc. (“FSCwire”), which not only increased our customer base, but more importantly increased our global footprint, distribution capabilities and editorial team.
Our ACCESSWIRE news editing offering is available within our core Platform id.
also includes our targeting and outreach database and intelligence analytics module.
This module is centered around both our shareholder communications and news distribution offerings.
During the fourth quarter of 2017, our dataset and analytics were integrated into our ACCESSWIRE offering as a way to add value and expand distribution via highly targeted lists of professionals from the dataset.
Over the past year, we have been focused on refining the model of digital distribution of our customers’ message to the investment community and beyond.
This has been accomplished by integrating our shareholder outreach module, formerly known as Investor Network, into and with Platform id.
Most of the customers subscribing to this module today are historical PrecisionIR (“PIR”) – Annual Report Service (“ARS”) users, as well as new customers purchasing the entire Platform id.
We have migrated some of the customers from the traditional ARS business into this new digital subscription business.
We have invested time and financial resources developing and integrating systems and processes within Platform id.
We believe this offering will further increase our brand awareness.


item4.txt
As of the end of the period covered by this quarterly report on Form10-Q, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer conducted an evaluation of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15 and 15d-15 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934).
None, except as previously disclosed on the Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on July 5, 2018.
None.


