fls.txt
All forward-looking statements in this Form10-Q are based upon information available to the Company on the date of this Form10-Q, and the Company assumes no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited financial statements.
The unaudited interim consolidated balance sheet as of March 31, 2019 and statements of income, comprehensive income, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 included herein, have been prepared in accordance with the instructions for Form 10-Q under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), and Article 10 of Regulation S-X under the Exchange Act.
In the opinion of management, they include all normal recurring adjustments necessary for a fair presentation of the financial statements.
Results of operations reported for the interim periods are not necessarily indicative of results for the entire year.
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
Significant intercompany accounts and transactions are eliminated in consolidation.
Diluted net income per share is computed by dividing the net income for the period by the weighted average number of common and dilutive common equivalent shares outstanding during the period.
Substantially all of the Company’s revenue comes from contracts with customers for subscriptions to its cloud-based products or contracts to perform compliance or other services.
Customers consist primarily of corporate issuers and professional firms, such as investor relations and public relations firms.
The Company's revenues are measured based on consideration specified in the contract with each customer.
The Company recognizes revenue for subscriptions evenly over the contract period, upon distribution for per release contracts and upon event completion for webcasting events.
For service contracts that include stand ready obligations, revenue is recognized evenly over the contract period.
For all other services delivered on a per project or event basis, the revenue is recognized at the completion of the event.
The Company believes recognizing revenue for subscriptions and stand ready obligations using a time-based measure of progress, best reflects the Company’s performance in satisfying the obligations.
For bundled contracts, revenue is allocated to each performance obligation based on its relative standalone selling price.
Standalone selling prices are based on observable prices at which the Company separately sells the subscription or services.
If a standalone selling price is not directly observable, the Company uses the residual method to allocate any remaining costs to that subscription or service.
The Company regularly reviews standalone selling prices and updates these estimates if necessary.
The Company invoices its customers based on the billing schedules designated in its contracts, typically upfront on either a monthly, quarterly or annual basis or per transaction at the completion of the performance obligation.
Deferred revenue for the periods presented was primarily related to subscription and service contracts, which are billed upfront, quarterly or annually, however the revenue has not yet been recognized.
The associated deferred revenue is generally recognized ratably over the billing period.
Since substantially all of the contracts have terms of one year or less, the Company has elected to use the practical expedient regarding the existence of a significant financing.
Costs to obtain contracts with customers consist primarily of sales commissions.


