fls.txt
Forward-looking statements reflect management’s expectations and are inherently uncertain.


item1.txt
The consolidated financial statements of AVX Corporation and its subsidiaries (“AVX” or the “Company”) include all accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries.
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States have been omitted in accordance with the rules and regulations of the SEC for interim financial statements.
These consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018.
During the three month period ended June 30, 2018, there were no significant changes to any critical accounting policies or to the methodology used in determining estimates including those related to investment securities, inventories, goodwill, intangible assets, property and equipment, and contingencies other than those discussed below and in Note 3 related to revenue recognition.
We recognize revenue as performance obligations are satisfied, which is when the customer takes control of the products as they are shipped to or received by the customer in accordance with the terms of the agreement of sale.
Payment terms for the Company’s sales are generally less than 90 days.
Substantially all of the Company’s receivables are collected within twelve months of the transfer of products to the customer and the Company expects this to continue going forward.
The Company applies the practical expedient within ASC 606 to all of its contracts with payment terms less than or equal to twelve months and does not recognize a financing component in the determination of the transaction price.
Based on the evaluation of our resale arrangements with Kyocera, including consideration of the primary indicators set forth in ASC 606, we record revenue related to products purchased and resold on a gross basis.
The Company pays commissions to sales representatives on a per-sale basis and applies the practical expedient available within ASC 340.
The Company recognizes the estimated variable consideration to be received as revenue and records a related reduction to accounts receivable or as an accrued expense for the consideration not expected to be received, based upon its estimate of credits issued or products returned under the sales allowance programs described below.
We utilize the “portfolio approach” practical expedient in ASC 606, which allows entities to apply the guidance to a portfolio of contracts with similar characteristics because the effects on the financial statements of this approach would not differ materially from applying the guidance to individual contracts.
Sales revenue and cost of sales reported in the statement of operations are reduced to reflect estimated returns.
The estimated value of the return to customer’s inventory is recorded as an asset.
When the product is returned and verified, the customer is given credit against their accounts receivable.
Stock rotation is a program whereby distributor customers are allowed to return, for credit, qualified inventory, semi-annually, equal to a certain percentage, primarily limited to 5% of the previous six months net sales.
An asset is recorded for the estimated value of returned product.
We believe that these procedures enable us to make reliable estimates of future returns under the stock rotation program.
When the product is returned and verified, the distributor is given credit against their accounts receivable.
Ship-from-Stock and Debit (“ship and debit”) is a program designed to assist distributor customers in meeting competitive prices in the marketplace on sales to their end customers.
Ship and debit programs require a request from the distributor for a pricing adjustment for a specific part for a sale to the distributor’s end customer from the distributor’s stock.
We believe that these procedures enable us to make reliable estimates of future credits under the ship and debit program.
Regarding finance leases, lessees are required to 1) recognize a right-of-use asset and a lease liability, initially measured at the present value of the lease payments, in the statement of financial position, 2) recognize interest on the lease liability separate from the amortization of the right-of-use asset in the statement of comprehensive income, and 3) classify repayments of the principal portion of the lease liability within financing activities and payments of interest on the lease liability and variable lease payments within operating activities in the statement of cash flows.
In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-12, “Derivatives and Hedging.” The standard aims to align the designation and measurement guidance for qualifying hedging relationships and the presentation of hedge results for cash flow and fair value hedge accounting with risk management activities.
Management is currently evaluating the impact this guidance will have on our consolidated financial statements.
We recorded approximately $18,168 of identifiable intangible assets and $26,049 of goodwill pertaining to this acquisition.
The Ethertronics business is now named AVX Antenna and is consolidated with our Electronic Components segment.


