fls.txt
Forward-looking statements reflect management’s expectations and are inherently uncertain.


item1.txt
The consolidated financial statements of AVX Corporation and its subsidiaries (“AVX” or the “Company”) include all accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries.
We have prepared the accompanying financial statements pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) for interim financial reporting.
These consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended  March 31, 2017.
Accordingly, this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q should be read in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended  March 31, 2017.
This was the primary reason for a change in AVX's global tax rate estimate for the fiscal year ending  March 2018, resulting in a blended, estimated global tax rate of 27% for fiscal 2018.
The Act also resulted in an estimated net decrease in the valuation of U.S. net current and deferred tax assets and liabilities of $24.7 million.
This one-time tax is assessed at a 15.5% rate on all such earnings held in cash or liquid asset positions, and at an 8% rate on all other non-liquid asset positions.
This one-time tax was recorded in the results for the quarter ended December 31, 2017, and was approximately $75.6 million, which is payable in installments over an eight-year period beginning in 2018.
Based on our current interpretation of the Act, we made reasonable estimates to record provisional adjustments during our fiscal third quarter ended  December 31, 2017.
In  February 2016, FASB issued ASU 2016-02, “Leases.” This guidance changes the requirements for inclusion of certain right-of-use assets and the associated lease liabilities to be included in a statement of financial position.
Regarding operating leases, lessees are required to 1) recognize a right-of-use asset and a lease liability, initially measured at the present value of the lease payments, in the statement of financial position, 2) recognize a single lease cost, calculated so that the cost of the lease is allocated over the lease term on a generally straight-line basis, and 3) classify all cash payments within operating activities in the statement of cash flows.
The standard became effective for the interim reporting period ending  June 30, 2017 and has not had a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
In  January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-04, “Intangibles – Goodwill and Other.” This guidance simplifies how an entity is required to test goodwill for impairment by eliminating Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test.
Instead, an entity should perform its annual, or interim, goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount and recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value; however, the loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.
The adoption of this standard has not had a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
In  August 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-12, “Derivatives and Hedging.” The standard aims to align the designation and measurement guidance for qualifying hedging relationships and the presentation of hedge results for cash flow and fair value hedge accounting with risk management activities.
Management is currently evaluating the impact this guidance will have on our consolidated financial statements.
Therefore, final amounts recorded  may differ from information presented pending further review of the acquired business.
During the three and nine month periods ended  December 31, 2016 and 2017, there have been no transfers of assets or liabilities between levels within the fair value hierarchy.
The funds in the non-qualified deferred compensation program are valued based on the number of shares in the funds using a price per share traded in an active market.
If the cost of an investment exceeds its fair value, among other factors, we evaluate general market conditions, the duration and extent to which the fair value is less than cost, and whether or not we expect to recover the security's entire amortized cost.
Once a decline in fair value is determined to be other-than-temporary, an impairment charge is recorded and a new cost basis in the investment is established.
We primarily use forward contracts, with maturities generally less than four months, designated as cash flow hedges, to protect against the foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in our forecasted transactions related to purchase commitments and sales, denominated in various currencies.
We also use derivatives not designated as hedging instruments to hedge foreign currency balance sheet exposures.
These derivatives are used to offset currency changes in the fair value of the hedged assets and liabilities.
Fair values for all of our derivative financial instruments are valued by adjusting the market spot rate by forward points, based on the date of the contract.
At  March 31, 2017 and  December 31, 2017, all of our forward contracts are valued using Level 2 measurements.


