fls.txt
This new standard replaces the use of forward-looking information to estimate credit losses and requires credit losses for available for sale debt securities to be recorded through an allowance for credit losses rather than a reduction in the amortized cost basis.
Management is currently evaluating the impact of ASU 2016-13 on our consolidated financial statements.
The forward-looking information may include, among other information, statements concerning our outlook for fiscal year 2020, overall volume and pricing trends, cost reduction and acquisition strategies and their anticipated results, and expectations for research and development and capital expenditures.
Any forward-looking statements by the Company are intended to speak only as of the date thereof.


item1.txt
The Company has prepared the accompanying financial statements pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) for interim financial reporting.
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States have been omitted in accordance with the rules and regulations of the SEC for interim financial statements.
These consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended  March 31, 2019.
Accordingly, this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q should be read in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended  March 31, 2019.
During the three and six month periods ended  September 30, 2019, there were no significant changes to any critical accounting policies or to the methodology used in determining estimates including those related to investment securities, inventories, goodwill, intangible assets, property and equipment, and contingencies.
During the six month period ended  September 30, 2019, goodwill increased by $10,896 due to the purchase of Chengdu OK New Energy ("COKNE") and was partially offset by foreign currency translation.
Certain amounts in the prior year consolidated financial statements have been reclassified to the current year presentation.
In  June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, “Financial Instruments – Credit Losses: Measurements of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments.” This standard requires the measurement and recognition of expected credit losses held at amortized cost.
Management is currently evaluating the impact of ASU 2016-13 on our consolidated financial statements.
The adoption of this standard has not had a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
Management is currently assessing the impact ASU 2018-14 will have on our disclosures.
The Company early adopted this standard effective  April 1, 2019, utilizing the prospective approach to all implementation costs incurred after the date of adoption.
The adoption of ASU 2018-15 has not had a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
The Company paid $1,839 and $4,090 for its operating leases in the three and six months ended  September 30, 2019, respectively which are included in operating cash flows on the consolidated statement of cash flows.
During the three and six month periods ended  September 30, 2019, there have been no transfers of assets or liabilities between levels within the fair value hierarchy.
The funds in the non-qualified deferred compensation program are valued based on the number of shares in the funds using a price per share traded in an active market.
If the cost of an investment exceeds its fair value, among other factors, we evaluate general market conditions, the duration and extent to which the fair value is less than cost, and whether or not we expect to recover the security's entire amortized cost.
Once a decline in fair value is determined to be other-than-temporary, an impairment charge is recorded and a new cost basis in the investment is established.
We primarily use forward contracts, with maturities generally less than four months, designated as cash flow hedges, to protect against the foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in our forecasted transactions related to purchase commitments and sales, denominated in various currencies.
These derivatives are used to offset currency changes in the fair value of the hedged assets and liabilities.
Fair values for all of our derivative financial instruments are valued by adjusting the market spot rate by forward points, based on the date of the contract.
At  March 31, 2019 and  September 30, 2019, all of our forward contracts are valued using Level 2 measurements.
Our long-term and short-term investment securities are accounted for as held-to-maturity securities and are carried at amortized cost.
All income generated from the held-to-maturity securities investments are recorded as interest income.
The amortized cost and estimated fair value of held-to-maturity investments at  September 30, 2019, by contractual maturity, are shown below.
Actual maturities  may differ from contractual maturities because issuers  may have the right to call or prepay obligations without call or prepayment penalties.


