ITEM 1.
Financial statements
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
Notes to financial statements
1.
Description of business, including segment and geographic area information
We report the results of our remaining business activities in Other.
Other includes operating segments that do not meet the quantitative thresholds for individually reportable segments and cannot be aggregated with other operating segments.
Other includes DLP® products, calculators and custom ASIC products.
Our centralized manufacturing and support organizations, such as facilities, procurement and logistics, provide support to our operating segments, including those in Other.
Costs incurred by these organizations, including depreciation, are charged to the segments on a per-unit basis.
Consequently, depreciation expense is not an independently identifiable component within the segments’ results and, therefore, is not provided.
Segment information
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
Geographic area information
The following geographic area information includes revenue based on product shipment destination.
The revenue information is not necessarily indicative of the geographic area in which the end applications containing our products are ultimately consumed because our products tend to be shipped to the locations where our customers manufacture their products.
Specifically, many of our products are shipped to our customers in China who may include these parts in the manufacture of their own end products, which they may in turn export to their customers around the world.
2.
Basis of presentation and significant accounting policies and practices
Basis of presentation
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP) and on the same basis as the audited financial statements included in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, except for the effects of adopting Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No.
2016-02, Leases (Topic 842).
The Consolidated Statements of Income, Comprehensive Income and Cash Flows for the periods ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, and the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of September 30, 2019, are not audited but reflect all adjustments that are of a normal recurring nature and are necessary for a fair statement of the results of the periods shown.
Certain information and note disclosures normally included in annual consolidated financial statements have been omitted pursuant to the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
Because the consolidated interim financial statements do not include all of the information and notes required by GAAP for a complete set of financial statements, they should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes included in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
The results for the three- and nine-month periods are not necessarily indicative of a full year’s results.
Significant accounting policies and practices
Leases
We determine if an arrangement is a lease at inception.
Leases are included in other long-term assets, accrued expenses and other liabilities, and other long-term liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Lease assets represent our right to use underlying assets for the lease term, and lease liabilities represent our obligations to make lease payments over the lease term.
On the commencement date, leases are evaluated for classification, and assets and liabilities are recognized based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term.
We use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement in determining the present value of lease payments.
Operating lease expense is generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Our lease values include options to extend or not to terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise such options.
We have agreements with lease and non-lease components, which are accounted for as a single lease component.
Leases with an initial lease term of 12 months or less are not recorded on the balance sheet; we recognize lease expense for these leases on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
Earnings per share (EPS)
We use the two-class method for calculating EPS because the restricted stock units (RSUs) we grant are participating securities containing non-forfeitable rights to receive dividend equivalents.
Under the two-class method, a portion of net income is allocated to RSUs and excluded from the calculation of income allocated to common stock, as shown in the table below.
Potentially dilutive securities representing 6 million and 4 million shares of common stock that were outstanding during the third quarters of 2019 and 2018, and 7 million and 4 million shares outstanding during the first nine months of 2019 and 2018, respectively, were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per common share during these periods because their effect would have been anti-dilutive.
Derivatives and hedging
In connection with the issuance of long-term debt, we may use financial derivatives such as treasury-rate lock agreements that are recognized in AOCI and amortized over the life of the related debt.
The results of these derivative transactions have not been material.
We do not use derivatives for speculative or trading purposes.
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
Fair values of financial instruments
The fair values of our derivative financial instruments were not material as of September 30, 2019.
Our investments in cash equivalents, short-term investments and certain long-term investments, as well as our deferred compensation liabilities, are carried at fair value.
The carrying values for other current financial assets and liabilities, such as accounts receivable and accounts payable, approximate fair value due to the short maturity of such instruments.
As of September 30, 2019, the carrying value of long-term debt, including the current portion, was $5.80 billion, and the estimated fair value was $6.32 billion.
The estimated fair value is measured using broker-dealer quotes, which are Level 2 inputs.
See Note 4 for a description of fair value and the definition of Level 2 inputs.
Changes in accounting standards – adopted standards for current period
ASU No.
2016-02, Leases (Topic 842)
We adopted ASU No.
2016-02, Leases (ASC 842) effective January 1, 2019, using the modified retrospective transition method applied to leases existing at, or entered into after, the adoption date.
The reported results for 2019 reflect the application of the new accounting guidance, while the reported results for prior periods are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with our historical accounting under ASC 840, Leases.
In addition, we elected the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance that allowed us to apply prior conclusions related to lease definition, classification and initial direct costs.
The adoption of the new standard resulted in the recognition of $229 million of lease liabilities with corresponding lease assets as of January 1, 2019.
The standard did not materially impact our results of operations and had no impact on cash flows.
Other standards
Changes in accounting standards – standards not yet adopted
This standard requires entities to use a current lifetime expected credit loss methodology to measure impairments of certain financial assets.
Using this methodology will result in earlier recognition of losses than under the current incurred loss approach, which requires waiting to recognize a loss until it is probable of being incurred.
Credit losses relating to available-for-sale debt securities will be recorded through an allowance for credit losses rather than as a reduction to the amortized cost basis of the securities.
We plan to adopt this standard when effective, beginning January 1, 2020, applying the guidance on a modified retrospective basis.
We are currently evaluating the potential impact of this standard, but we do not expect it to have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations.
Other standards
We are evaluating the impact of the following standards, but we do not expect them to have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations.
We plan to adopt these standards as of their effective dates.
Our estimated annual effective tax rate is about 16%, which does not include discrete tax items.
This differs from the 21% statutory corporate tax rate due to the effect of U.S. tax benefits.
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
4.
Valuation of debt and equity investments and certain liabilities
Debt and equity investments measured at fair value
Other equity investments
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
As of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, unrealized gains and losses associated with our available-for-sale investments were not material.
We did not recognize any credit losses related to available-for-sale investments for the first nine months of 2019 and 2018.
Proceeds from sales, redemptions and maturities of short-term available-for-sale investments were $220 million and $1.72 billion for the third quarters of 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $2.00 billion and $4.55 billion for the first nine months of 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Gross realized gains and losses from these sales were not material.
There were no other-than-temporary declines and impairments in the values of our debt investments in the first nine months of 2019 or 2018.
Fair-value considerations
We measure and report certain financial assets and liabilities at fair value on a recurring basis.
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date.
The three-level hierarchy discussed below indicates the extent and level of judgment used to estimate fair-value measurements.
•Level 1 – Uses unadjusted quoted prices that are available in active markets for identical assets or liabilities as of the reporting date.
•Level 2 – Uses inputs other than Level 1 that are either directly or indirectly observable as of the reporting date through correlation with market data, including quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets and quoted prices in markets that are not active.
Level 2 also includes assets and liabilities that are valued using models or other pricing methodologies that do not require significant judgment since the input assumptions used in the models, such as interest rates and volatility factors, are corroborated by readily observable data.
We utilize a third-party data service to provide Level 2 valuations.
We verify these valuations for reasonableness relative to unadjusted quotes obtained from brokers or dealers based on observable prices for similar assets in active markets.
•Level 3 – Uses inputs that are unobservable, supported by little or no market activity and reflect the use of significant management judgment.
These values are generally determined using pricing models that utilize management estimates of market participant assumptions.
As of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, we had no Level 3 assets or liabilities.
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
The following are our assets and liabilities that were accounted for at fair value on a recurring basis.
These tables do not include cash on hand, assets held by our postretirement plans, or assets and liabilities that are measured at historical cost or any basis other than fair value.
5.
Goodwill and acquisition-related intangibles
Goodwill was $4.36 billion as of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018.
There was no impairment of goodwill during the first nine months of 2019 or 2018.
Acquisition charges
Acquisition charges represent the ongoing amortization of intangible assets resulting from the acquisition of National Semiconductor Corporation.
These amounts are included in Other for segment reporting purposes, consistent with how management measures the performance of its segments.
Amortization of acquisition-related intangibles was $79 million and $80 million for the third quarters of 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $238 million and $239 million for the first nine months of 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Fully amortized assets are written off against accumulated amortization.
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
6.
Postretirement benefit plans
7.
Debt and lines of credit
Short-term borrowings
We maintain a line of credit to support commercial paper borrowings, if any, and to provide additional liquidity through bank loans.
As of September 30, 2019, we had a variable-rate revolving credit facility from a consortium of investment-grade banks that allows us to borrow up to $2 billion until March 2024.
The interest rate on borrowings under this credit facility, if drawn, is indexed to the applicable London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR).
As of September 30, 2019, our credit facility was undrawn, and we had no commercial paper outstanding.
Long-term debt
We retired $750 million of maturing debt in August 2019.
In the first quarter of 2019, we issued a principal amount of $750 million of fixed-rate, long-term debt due in 2039.
We incurred $7 million of issuance and other related costs.
We received $743 million in proceeds, net of the original issuance discount, to be used for general corporate purposes.
In the third quarter of 2019, we issued a principal amount of $750 million of fixed-rate, long-term debt due in 2029.
We incurred $5 million of issuance and other related costs.
We received $748 million in proceeds, net of the original issuance discount, to be used for general corporate purposes.
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
Interest and debt expense was $43 million and $36 million for the third quarters of 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $125 million and $89 million for the first nine months of 2019 and 2018, respectively.
This was net of the amortized discounts, premiums and issuance costs.
Capitalized interest was not material.
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
We conduct certain operations in leased facilities and also lease a portion of our data processing and other equipment.
In addition, certain long-term supply agreements to purchase industrial gases are accounted for as operating leases.
Lease agreements frequently include renewal provisions and require us to pay real estate taxes, insurance and maintenance costs.
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
Indemnification guarantees
We routinely sell products with an intellectual property indemnification included in the terms of sale.
Historically, we have had only minimal, infrequent losses associated with these indemnities.
Consequently, we cannot reasonably estimate any future liabilities that may result.
We accrue for known product-related claims if a loss is probable and can be reasonably estimated.
During the periods presented, there have been no material accruals or payments regarding product warranty or product liability.
Historically, we have experienced a low rate of payments on product claims.
Although we cannot predict the likelihood or amount of any future claims, we do not believe they will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.
Our stated warranties for semiconductor products obligate us to repair, replace or credit the purchase price of a covered product back to the buyer.
Product claim consideration may exceed the price of our products.
General
We are subject to various legal and administrative proceedings.
Although it is not possible to predict the outcome of these matters, we believe that the results of these proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
11.
Supplemental financial information
The restructuring accrual balances are reported as a component of either accrued expenses and other liabilities or other long-term liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets, depending on the expected timing of payment.
In April 2019, we sold our manufacturing facility in Greenock, Scotland.
Details on amounts reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of taxes, to net income
Our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income include items that have been recognized within net income during the third quarters and first nine months of 2019 and 2018.
The table below details where these transactions are recorded in our Consolidated Statements of Income.
Stock compensation
Total shares of 4,404,183 and 13,381,166 were issued from treasury shares during the third quarter and first nine months of 2019, respectively, related to stock compensation.
ITEM 1A.
Risk factors
Information concerning our risk factors is contained in Item 1A of our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, and is incorporated by reference herein.
