ITEM 2.
Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations.
Overview
•
A strong foundation of manufacturing and technology.
We invest in manufacturing technologies and do most of our manufacturing in-house.
This strategic decision to directly control our manufacturing helps ensure a consistent supply of products for our customers and also allows us to invest in technology that differentiates the features of our products.
We have focused on creating a competitive manufacturing cost advantage by increasing factory loadings of our advanced analog 300-millimeter wafers, which have about a 40 percent cost advantage per unpackaged chip over 200-millimeter wafers.
300-millimeter wafers will support the majority of our Analog growth going forward.
Additionally, we keep our manufacturing costs low by using mature assets acquired ahead of demand when their prices are most attractive.
•
Broad portfolio of differentiated analog and embedded processing semiconductors.
Our customers need multiple chips for their systems.
The breadth of our portfolio means we can solve more of these needs than our competitors, which gives us access to more customers and the opportunity to sell more products and generate more revenue per customer system.
We invest more than $1 billion each year to develop new products for our portfolio, which includes tens of thousands of products.
•
Broadest reach of market channels.
Customers often begin their initial product selection process and design-in journey on our website, and the breadth of our portfolio attracts more customers to our website than any of our competitors.
Our web presence, combined with our global sales force that is also greater in size than those of our competitors, are advantages that give us unique access to about 100,000 customers designing TI semiconductors into their end products.
•
Diversity and longevity of our products, markets and customer positions.
Together, the attributes above result in diverse and long-lived positions that deliver high terminal value to our shareholders.
Because of the breadth of our portfolio, we are not dependent on any single product, and because of the breadth of our markets we are not dependent on any single application or customer.
Some of our products generate revenue for decades, which strengthens the return on our investments.
Our strategic focus, and where we invest the majority of our resources, is on Analog and Embedded Processing, with a particular emphasis on designing and selling those products into the industrial and automotive markets, which we believe represent the best growth opportunities.
Analog and embedded processing products sold into industrial and automotive markets provide long product life cycles, intrinsic diversity, and less capital-intensive manufacturing, which we believe offer stability, profitability and strong cash generation.
This business model is the foundation of our capital management strategy, which is based on our belief that free cash flow growth, especially on a per share basis, is important for maximizing shareholder value over the long term.
We also believe that free cash flow will be valued only if it is productively invested in the business or returned to shareholders.
The combined effect of these sustainable competitive advantages is that over time we have gained market share in Analog and Embedded Processing and have grown free cash flow.
Our business model puts us in a unique class of companies with the ability to grow, generate cash, and return that cash to shareholders.
•
Our segments represent groups of similar products that are combined on the basis of similar design and development requirements, product characteristics, manufacturing processes and distribution channels, and how management allocates resources and measures results.
See Note 1 to the financial statements for more information regarding our segments.
•
All dollar amounts in the tables are stated in millions of U.S. dollars.
•
o
Unless otherwise noted, changes in our revenue are attributable to changes in customer demand, which are evidenced by fluctuations in shipment volumes.
o
New products tend not to have a significant impact on our revenue in any given period because we sell such a large number of products.
o
From time to time, our revenue and gross profit are affected by changes in demand for higher-priced or lower-priced products, which we refer to as changes in the “mix” of products shipped.
o
Because we own much of our manufacturing capacity, a significant portion of our operating cost is fixed.
When factory loadings decrease, our fixed costs are spread over reduced output and, absent other circumstances, our profit margins decrease.
Conversely, as factory loadings increase, our fixed costs are spread over increased output and, absent other circumstances, our profit margins increase.
Increases and decreases in factory loadings tend to correspond to increases and decreases in demand.
o
Performance summary
Our second-quarter revenue was $4.02 billion, net income was $1.41 billion and earnings per share (EPS) were $1.40.
EPS included a 3 cent discrete tax benefit not in our original guidance.
Revenue increased 9 percent from the same quarter a year ago.
Demand for our Analog and Embedded Processing products continued to be strong in the industrial and automotive markets.
Our cash flow from operations of $6.6 billion for the trailing 12 months again underscored the strength of our business model.
Free cash flow for the trailing 12 months was $5.7 billion, or 36.6 percent of revenue.
This reflects the quality of our product portfolio, as well as the efficiency of our manufacturing strategy, including the benefit of 300-millimeter Analog production.
We have returned $5.6 billion to owners in the past 12 months through stock repurchases and dividends, and our strategy to return to owners all of our free cash flow remains consistent.
Over the last 12 months, our dividends represented 41 percent of free cash flow, emphasizing their sustainability.
We continue to expect our ongoing annual operating tax rate to be about 20 percent in 2018 and 16 percent starting in 2019.
For an explanation of free cash flow and the term “annual operating tax rate,” see the Non-GAAP financial information section.
Results of operations – second-quarter 2018 compared with second-quarter 2017
Revenue of $4.02 billion increased $324 million, or 9 percent, due to higher revenue from Analog and Embedded Processing.
Gross profit of $2.62 billion was up $245 million, or 10 percent, primarily due to higher revenue.
As a percentage of revenue, gross profit increased to 65.2 percent from 64.3 percent.
Acquisition charges of $79 million were non-cash.
See Note 9 to the financial statements.
Operating profit was $1.71 billion, or 42.6 percent of revenue, compared with $1.48 billion, or 40.1 percent of revenue.
Our Provision for income taxes was $301 million compared with $430 million, which includes discrete tax benefits of $43 million and $28 million, respectively.
The decrease in our tax provision was primarily due to a lower U.S. statutory corporate tax rate and other net benefits resulting from the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Tax Act), partially offset by higher income before income taxes.
Our annual operating tax rate, which does not include discrete tax items, is about 20 percent compared with 31 percent in 2017.
We use “annual operating tax rate” to describe the estimated annual effective tax rate.
The 2018 rate differs from the 21 percent U.S. statutory corporate tax rate due to the effect of U.S. tax benefits, offset by a transitional non-cash tax expense.
Net income was $1.41 billion compared with $1.06 billion.
EPS was $1.40 compared with $1.03.
Second-quarter 2018 segment results
Analog (includes Power, Signal Chain and High Volume product lines)
Analog revenue increased due to Power and, to a lesser extent, Signal Chain.
High Volume revenue decreased due to the mix of products shipped.
Operating profit increased due to higher revenue and associated gross profit.
Embedded Processing (includes Connected Microcontrollers and Processors product lines)
Embedded Processing revenue increased in both product lines about equally.
Operating profit increased primarily due to higher revenue and associated gross profit.
Other (includes DLP® products, calculators and custom ASIC products)
Other revenue decreased by $30 million, and operating profit declined by $17 million.
Results of operations – first six months of 2018 compared with first six months of 2017
Revenue of $7.81 billion increased $711 million, or 10 percent, due to higher revenue from Analog and Embedded Processing.
Gross profit of $5.07 billion was up $548 million, or 12 percent, primarily due to higher revenue.
As a percentage of revenue, gross profit increased to 64.9 percent from 63.7 percent.
Operating expenses were $1.64 billion compared with $1.62 billion.
Acquisition charges of $159 million were non-cash.
See Note 9 to the financial statements.
Operating profit was $3.26 billion, or 41.8 percent of revenue, compared with $2.73 billion, or 38.5 percent of revenue.
Our Provision for income taxes was $488 million compared with $688 million, which includes discrete tax benefits of $172 million and $152 million, respectively.
The decrease in our tax provision was primarily due to a lower U.S. statutory corporate tax rate and other net benefits resulting from the Tax Act, partially offset by higher income before income taxes.
Net income was $2.77 billion compared with $2.05 billion.
EPS was $2.75 compared with $2.00.
Year-to-date segment results
Analog
Analog revenue increased due to Power and, to a lesser extent, Signal Chain.
High Volume revenue decreased due to the mix of products shipped.
Operating profit increased due to higher revenue and associated gross profit.
Embedded Processing
Embedded Processing revenue increased in both product lines, led by Processors.
Operating profit increased primarily due to higher revenue and associated gross profit.
Other
Other revenue decreased by $76 million, and operating profit declined by $40 million.
Financial condition
At the end of the second quarter of 2018, total cash (Cash and cash equivalents plus Short-term investments) was $5.13 billion, an increase of $661 million from the end of 2017.
Accounts receivable were $1.55 billion, an increase of $273 million compared with the end of 2017.
Days sales outstanding at the end of the second quarter of 2018 were 35 compared with 31 at the end of 2017.
Inventory was $2.09 billion, an increase of $133 million from the end of 2017.
Days of inventory at the end of the second quarter of 2018 were 135 compared with 134 at the end of 2017.
Liquidity and capital resources
Our primary source of liquidity is cash flow from operations.
Additional sources of liquidity are Cash and cash equivalents, Short-term investments and a variable-rate, revolving credit facility.
Cash flows from operating activities for the first six months of 2018 were $2.94 billion, an increase of $1.23 billion from the year-ago period.
This increase was due to higher Net income and a reduction in cash used for working capital, both of which benefited from a lower tax rate.
Our revolving credit facility is with a consortium of investment-grade banks and allows us to borrow up to $2 billion until March 2023.
This credit facility also serves as support for the issuance of commercial paper.
As of June 30, 2018, our credit facility was undrawn, and we had no commercial paper outstanding.
Investing activities for the first six months of 2018 provided $185 million compared with $259 million in the year-ago period.
Capital expenditures were $438 million compared with $278 million in the year-ago period and were primarily for semiconductor manufacturing equipment in both periods.
We had proceeds from sales of short-term investments, net of purchases, that provided cash of $621 million compared with $498 million in the year-ago period.
Financing activities for the first six months of 2018 used $1.86 billion compared with $1.99 billion in the year-ago period.
In 2018, we received net proceeds of $1.50 billion from the issuance of fixed-rate, long-term debt and retired maturing debt of $500 million.
In the year-ago period, we received net proceeds of $605 million from the issuance of fixed-rate, long-term debt and retired maturing debt of $625 million.
Dividends paid were $1.22 billion compared with $998 million in the year-ago period, reflecting an increase in the dividend rate, partially offset by fewer shares outstanding.
We used $1.89 billion to repurchase 17.8 million shares of our common stock compared with $1.20 billion used in the year-ago period to repurchase 15.2 million shares.
Employee exercises of stock options provided cash proceeds of $280 million compared with $245 million in the year-ago period.
We had $2.92 billion of Cash and cash equivalents and $2.21 billion of Short-term investments as of June 30, 2018.
We believe we have the necessary financial resources and operating plans to fund our working capital needs, capital expenditures, dividend and debt-related payments, and other business requirements for at least the next 12 months.
Non-GAAP financial information
We believe that free cash flow and the associated ratios provide insight into our liquidity, our cash-generating capability and the amount of cash potentially available to return to shareholders, as well as insight into our financial performance.
These non-GAAP measures are supplemental to the comparable GAAP measures.
Reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP measures is provided in the table below.
Long-term contractual obligations
Information regarding long-term debt obligations is described in the long-term contractual obligations table in Item 7 of our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Additionally, in the first six months of 2018, we issued $1.50 billion principal amount of 4.15 percent notes maturing in 2048 and retired $500 million of maturing debt.
Critical accounting policies
Our critical accounting policies are described in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Critical Accounting Policies in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
On January 1, 2018, we adopted Accounting Standards Update No.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which is discussed in Note 2 of our financial statements.
Changes in accounting standards
See Note 2 to the financial statements for detailed information regarding the status of new accounting and reporting standards.
ITEM 4.
Controls and Procedures.
An evaluation as of the end of the period covered by this report was carried out under the supervision and with the participation of management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934).
Based upon that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that those disclosure controls and procedures were effective.
In addition, there has been no change in our internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) that occurred during the period covered by this report that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
PART II – OTHER INFORMATION
ITEM 1A.
Risk Factors.
Information concerning our risk factors is contained in Item 1A of our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, and is incorporated by reference herein.
ITEM 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
The following table contains information regarding our purchases of our common stock during the quarter.
ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES
All open-market purchases during the quarter were made under the authorization from our board of directors to purchase up to $7.5 billion of additional shares of TI common stock announced September 17, 2015.
On September 21, 2017, our board of directors authorized the purchase of an additional $6.0 billion of our common stock.
In addition to open-market purchases, 2,110 shares of common stock were surrendered by employees to satisfy tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted stock units.
As of June 30, 2018, this amount consisted of the remaining portion of the $7.5 billion authorized in September 2015 and the $6.0 billion authorized in September 2017.
No expiration date has been specified for these authorizations.
ITEM 6.
Exhibits.
†
Filed or furnished herewith.
Notice regarding forward-looking statements
This report includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “foresees,” “forecasts,” “estimates” or other words or phrases of similar import.
Similarly, statements herein that describe TI’s business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements.
All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
For a more detailed discussion of these factors see the Risk Factors discussion in Item 1A of our most recent Form 10-K.
The forward-looking statements included in this report are made only as of the date of this report, and we undertake no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
If we do update any forward-looking statement, you should not infer that we will make additional updates with respect to that statement or any other forward-looking statement.
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
