ITEM 2. Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations



Overview





•A strong foundation of manufacturing and technology. We invest in manufacturing technologies and do most of our manufacturing in-house. This strategic decision to directly control our manufacturing helps ensure a consistent supply of products for our customers and also allows us to invest in technology that differentiates the features of our products. We have focused on creating a competitive manufacturing cost advantage by investing in our advanced analog 300-millimeter capacity, which has about a 40% cost advantage per unpackaged chip over 200-millimeter. To strengthen this advantage, we are planning our next phase of 300-millimeter capacity expansion as 300-millimeter wafers will continue to support the majority of our Analog growth.



•Broad portfolio of differentiated analog and embedded processing semiconductors. Our customers need multiple chips for their systems. The breadth of our portfolio means we can meet more of these needs than our competitors can, which gives us access to more customers and the opportunity to sell more products and generate more revenue per customer system. We invest more than $1 billion each year to develop new products for our portfolio, which includes tens of thousands of products.



•Broadest reach of market channels. Customers often begin their initial product selection process and design-in journey on our website, and the breadth of our portfolio attracts more customers to our website than any of our competitors’ websites. Our web presence, combined with our global sales force that is also greater in size than those of our competitors, are advantages that give us unique access to about 100,000 customers designing TI semiconductors into their end products.



•Diversity and longevity of our products, markets and customer positions. Together, the attributes above result in diverse and long-lived positions that deliver high terminal value to our shareholders. Because of the breadth of our portfolio, we are not dependent on any single product, customer, technology or market. Some of our products generate revenue for decades, which strengthens the return on our investments.



Our strategic focus, and where we invest the majority of our resources, is on Analog and Embedded Processing, with a particular emphasis on designing and selling those products into the industrial and automotive markets, which we believe represent the best growth opportunities. Analog and embedded processing products sold into industrial and automotive markets provide long product life cycles, intrinsic diversity and less capital-intensive manufacturing, which we believe offer stability, profitability and strong cash generation. This business model is the foundation of our capital management strategy, which is based on our belief that free cash flow growth, especially on a per-share basis, is important for maximizing shareholder value over the long term. We also believe that free cash flow will be valued only if it is productively invested in the business or returned to shareholders.



The combined effect of these sustainable competitive advantages is that over time we have gained market share in Analog and Embedded Processing and have grown free cash flow. Our business model puts us in a unique class of companies with the ability to grow, generate cash and return that cash to shareholders.





•Our segments represent groups of similar products that are combined on the basis of similar design and development requirements, product characteristics, manufacturing processes and distribution channels, and how management allocates resources and measures results. See Note 1 to the financial statements for more information regarding our segments.





◦Unless otherwise noted, changes in our revenue are attributable to changes in customer demand, which are evidenced by fluctuations in shipment volumes.



◦New products tend not to have a significant impact on our revenue in any given period because we sell such a large number of products.





◦From time to time, our revenue and gross profit are affected by changes in demand for higher-priced or lower-priced products, which we refer to as changes in the “mix” of products shipped.



◦Because we own much of our manufacturing capacity, a significant portion of our operating cost is fixed. When factory loadings decrease, our fixed costs are spread over reduced output and, absent other circumstances, our profit margins decrease. Conversely, as factory loadings increase, our fixed costs are spread over increased output and, absent other circumstances, our profit margins increase. Increases and decreases in factory loadings tend to correspond to increases and decreases in demand.



•All dollar amounts in the tables are stated in millions of U.S. dollars.



Performance summary



Our third quarter revenue was $3.77 billion, net income was $1.43 billion and earnings per share (EPS) were $1.49.



Revenue decreased 11% from the same quarter a year ago, as most markets weakened further.



In our core businesses, Analog revenue declined 8% and Embedded Processing declined 19% from the same quarter a year ago.



Our cash flow from operations of $7.0 billion for the trailing 12 months again underscored the strength of our business model. Free cash flow for the trailing 12 months was $6.0 billion and 41% of revenue. This reflects the quality of our product portfolio, as well as the efficiency of our manufacturing strategy, including the benefit of 300-millimeter Analog production.



We have returned $7.4 billion to shareholders in the past 12 months through stock repurchases and dividends. Over the last 12 months, our dividends represented 48% of free cash flow, underscoring their sustainability. In September, we announced we would increase our dividend by 17%. Together, our stock repurchases and dividends reflect our continued commitment to return all free cash flow to our shareholders.



We continue to expect our annual operating tax rate to be about 16% in 2019.



For an explanation of free cash flow and the term “annual operating tax rate,” see the Non-GAAP financial information section.



Results of operations – third quarter 2019 compared with third quarter 2018



Revenue of $3.77 billion decreased $490 million, or 11%, primarily due to lower revenue from Analog and Embedded Processing.



Gross profit of $2.45 billion was down $358 million, or 13%, due to lower revenue. As a percentage of revenue, gross profit decreased to 64.9% from 65.8%.





Acquisition charges of $79 million were non-cash. See Note 5 to the financial statements.



Operating profit was $1.59 billion, or 42.1% of revenue, compared with $1.94 billion, or 45.5% of revenue.





Interest and debt expense of $43 million increased $7 million due to the issuance of additional long-term debt.



Our provision for income taxes was $155 million compared with $354 million. The decrease was due to higher discrete tax benefits, lower income before income taxes and, to a lesser extent, a lower annual operating tax rate. Our annual operating tax rate, which does not include discrete tax items, is about 16% compared with 20% in 2018. We use “annual operating tax rate” to describe the estimated annual effective tax rate. The 2019 rate differs from the 21% U.S. statutory corporate tax rate due to the effect of U.S. tax benefits.



Net income was $1.43 billion compared with $1.57 billion. EPS was $1.49 compared with $1.58.





Third quarter 2019 segment results





Analog (includes Power, Signal Chain and High Volume product lines)





Analog revenue decreased due to Power, Signal Chain and, to a lesser extent, High Volume. Operating profit decreased primarily due to lower revenue and associated gross profit.



Embedded Processing (includes Connected Microcontrollers and Processors product lines)





Embedded Processing revenue decreased in both product lines about equally. Operating profit decreased due to lower revenue and associated gross profit. 



Other (includes DLP® products, calculators and custom ASIC products)





Other revenue decreased $87 million, and operating profit decreased $56 million.



Results of operations – first nine months of 2019 compared with first nine months of 2018



Revenue of $11.03 billion decreased $1.03 billion, or 9%, primarily due to lower revenue from Embedded Processing and Analog.



Gross profit of $7.07 billion was down $803 million, or 10%, primarily due to lower revenue. As a percentage of revenue, gross profit decreased to 64.1% from 65.2%.



Operating expenses were $2.39 billion compared with $2.43 billion.



Acquisition charges of $238 million were non-cash. See Note 5 to the financial statements.





Operating profit was $4.47 billion, or 40.6% of revenue, compared with $5.20 billion, or 43.1% of revenue.





Interest and debt expense of $125 million increased $36 million due to the issuance of additional long-term debt.



Our provision for income taxes was $524 million compared with $842 million. The decrease was due to a lower annual operating tax rate and lower income before income taxes.



Net income was $3.95 billion compared with $4.34 billion. EPS was $4.12 compared with $4.32.





Year-to-date segment results





Analog





Analog revenue decreased due to Power, High Volume and, to a lesser extent, Signal Chain. Operating profit decreased primarily due to lower revenue and associated gross profit.



Embedded Processing





Embedded Processing revenue decreased in Processors and Connected Microcontrollers. Operating profit decreased due to lower revenue and associated gross profit.



Other





Other revenue decreased $144 million, and operating profit decreased $50 million.



Financial condition



At the end of the third quarter of 2019, total cash (cash and cash equivalents plus short-term investments) was $5.07 billion, an increase of $834 million from the end of 2018.



Accounts receivable were $1.34 billion, an increase of $135 million compared with the end of 2018. Days sales outstanding at the end of the third quarter of 2019 were 32 compared with 29 at the end of 2018.



Inventory was $2.04 billion, a decrease of $177 million from the end of 2018. Days of inventory at the end of the third quarter of 2019 were 139 compared with 152 at the end of 2018.



Liquidity and capital resources



Our primary source of liquidity is cash flow from operations. Additional sources of liquidity are cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and a variable-rate, revolving credit facility. Cash flows from operating activities for the first nine months of 2019 were $4.90 billion, a decrease of $149 million primarily due to lower net income.



Our revolving credit facility is with a consortium of investment-grade banks and allows us to borrow up to $2 billion until March 2024. This credit facility also serves as support for the issuance of commercial paper. As of September 30, 2019, our credit facility was undrawn, and we had no commercial paper outstanding.



Investing activities for the first nine months of 2019 provided $1 million compared with $1.58 billion of cash used in the year-ago period. Capital expenditures were $684 million compared with $808 million in the year-ago period and were primarily for semiconductor manufacturing equipment in both periods. Short-term investments provided cash of $630 million compared with $763 million of cash used in the year-ago period.





Financing activities for the first nine months of 2019 used $3.44 billion compared with $3.62 billion in the year-ago period. In 2019, we received net proceeds of $1.49 billion from the issuance of fixed-rate, long-term debt, and we retired maturing debt of $750 million. In the year-ago period, we received net proceeds of $1.50 billion from the issuance of fixed-rate, long-term debt, and we retired maturing debt of $500 million. Dividends paid were $2.17 billion compared with $1.82 billion in the year-ago period, reflecting an increase in the dividend rate, partially offset by fewer shares outstanding. We used $2.47 billion to repurchase 23.4 million shares of our common stock compared with $3.09 billion used in the year-ago period to repurchase 28.6 million shares. Employee exercises of stock options provided cash proceeds of $491 million compared with $335 million in the year-ago period.



We had $3.89 billion of cash and cash equivalents and $1.17 billion of short-term investments as of September 30, 2019. We believe we have the necessary financial resources and operating plans to fund our working capital needs, capital expenditures, dividend and debt-related payments, and other business requirements for at least the next 12 months.



Non-GAAP financial information





We believe that free cash flow and the associated ratios provide insight into our liquidity, our cash-generating capability and the amount of cash potentially available to return to shareholders, as well as insight into our financial performance. These non-GAAP measures are supplemental to the comparable GAAP measures.



Reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP measures is provided in the table below.







Long-term contractual obligations



Information regarding long-term contractual obligations is in Item 7 of our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018. Additionally, in the first nine months of 2019, we issued $750 million principal amount of 3.875% notes maturing in 2039 and $750 million principal amount of 2.25% notes maturing in 2029. We retired $750 million of maturing debt in August 2019.



Changes in accounting standards



See Note 2 to the financial statements for detailed information regarding the status of new accounting and reporting standards.





ITEM 4. Controls and procedures



An evaluation as of the end of the period covered by this report was carried out under the supervision and with the participation of management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934). Based upon that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that those disclosure controls and procedures were effective. In addition, there has been no change in our internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) that occurred during the period covered by this report that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.





PART II – OTHER INFORMATION



ITEM 1A. Risk factors



Information concerning our risk factors is contained in Item 1A of our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, and is incorporated by reference herein.



ITEM 2. Unregistered sales of equity securities and use of proceeds



The following table contains information regarding our purchases of our common stock during the quarter.



ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES













ITEM 6. Exhibits



Designation of Exhibits in This ReportDescription of Exhibit



3(a)Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant, dated April 18, 1985, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(a) of the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014).



3(b)By-Laws of the Registrant (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3 of the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed December 12, 2016).



4(a)Officer's Certificate, dated September 4, 2019 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed September 4, 2019).



31(a)Certification of Chief Executive Officer of Periodic Report Pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) or Rule 15d-14(a).†



31(b)Certification of Chief Financial Officer of Periodic Report Pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) or Rule 15d-14(a).†



32(a)Certification by Chief Executive Officer of Periodic Report Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350.†



32(b)Certification by Chief Financial Officer of Periodic Report Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350.†



101.insXBRL Instance Document – the instance document does not appear in the Interactive Data File because its XBRL tags are embedded within the Inline XBRL document.†



101.defXBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document.†



101.schXBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document.†



101.calXBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document.†



101.labXBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document.†



101.preXBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document.†



104Cover Page Interactive Data File (embedded within the Inline XBRL document).†



† Filed or furnished herewith.





Notice regarding forward-looking statements



This report includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “foresees,” “forecasts,” “estimates” or other words or phrases of similar import. Similarly, statements herein that describe TI’s business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements. All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements. 





•Market demand for semiconductors, particularly in our end markets;



•Our ability to compete in products and prices in an intensely competitive industry;



•Customer demand that differs from forecasts and the financial impact of inadequate or excess company inventory that results from demand that differs from projections;



•Economic, social and political conditions in the countries in which we, our customers or our suppliers operate, including security risks; global trade policies; political and social instability; health conditions; possible disruptions in transportation, communications and information technology networks; and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates;



•Evolving cybersecurity threats to our information technology systems or those of our customers or suppliers;



•Natural events such as severe weather, geological events or health epidemics in the locations in which we, our customers or our suppliers operate;



•Our ability to develop, manufacture and market innovative products in a rapidly changing technological environment;





•Availability and cost of raw materials, utilities, manufacturing equipment, third-party manufacturing services and manufacturing technology;



•Product liability or warranty claims, claims based on epidemic or delivery failure, or other claims relating to our products, manufacturing, services, design or communications, or recalls by our customers for a product containing one of our parts;



•Compliance with or changes in the complex laws, rules and regulations to which we are or may become subject, or actions of enforcement authorities, that restrict our ability to manufacture or ship our products or operate our business, or subject us to fines, penalties or other legal liability;



•Changes in tax law and accounting standards that can impact the tax rate applicable to us, the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed, adverse resolution of tax audits, increases in tariff rates, and the ability to realize deferred tax assets;



•A loss suffered by one of our customers or distributors with respect to TI-consigned inventory;



•Financial difficulties of our distributors or their promotion of competing product lines to our detriment, or the unexpected loss of significant distributors;



•Losses or curtailments of purchases from key customers or the timing and amount of distributor and other customer inventory adjustments;



•Our ability to maintain or improve profit margins, including our ability to utilize our manufacturing facilities at sufficient levels to cover our fixed operating costs, in an intensely competitive and cyclical industry and despite changes in the regulatory environment;



•Our ability to maintain and enforce a strong intellectual property portfolio and maintain freedom of operation in all jurisdictions where we conduct business; or our exposure to infringement claims;



•Instability in the global credit and financial markets that affects our ability to fund our daily operations, invest in the business, make strategic acquisitions, or make principal and interest payments on our debt;



•Increases in health care and pension benefit costs;





•Our ability to recruit and retain skilled engineering, management and technical personnel, and effectively manage key employee succession;



•Our ability to successfully integrate and realize opportunities for growth from acquisitions, or our ability to realize our expectations regarding the amount and timing of restructuring charges and associated cost savings; and



•Impairments of our non-financial assets.



For a more detailed discussion of these factors see the Risk Factors discussion in Item 1A of our most recent Form 10-K. The forward-looking statements included in this report are made only as of the date of this report, and we undertake no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances. If we do update any forward-looking statement, you should not infer that we will make additional updates with respect to that statement or any other forward-looking statement.





SIGNATURE



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.





