See accompanying notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited).
See accompanying notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited).
See accompanying notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited).
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity
See accompanying notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited).
 See accompanying notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited).
Basis of Presentation. On July 15, 2019 we changed our corporate name from “KLA-Tencor Corporation” to “KLA Corporation”. For purposes of this report, “KLA,” the “Company,” “we,” “our,” “us,” or similar references mean KLA Corporation, and its majority-owned subsidiaries unless the context requires otherwise. The Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared by us pursuant to the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations. 
The Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of KLA and its majority-owned subsidiaries. All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
The results of operations for the three months ended September 30, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for any other interim period or for the full fiscal year ending June 30, 2020.
Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior year’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements to conform to the current year presentation. The reclassifications did not have material effects on the prior year’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, Statements of Operations, Comprehensive Income and Cash Flows.
Acquisition of Orbotech, Ltd. On February 20, 2019 (the “Closing Date” or “Acquisition Date”), we completed the acquisition of Orbotech, Ltd. (“Orbotech”) for total consideration of $3.26 billion. The acquisition of Orbotech is referred to as the “Orbotech Acquisition”. The Orbotech Acquisition was accounted for by applying the acquisition method of accounting for business combinations. The unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this report include the financial results of Orbotech prospectively from the Acquisition Date. For additional details, refer to Note 6 “Business Combinations” of the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Comparability. Effective July 1, 2019, we adopted ASC 842, Leases (“ASC 842”). Prior periods were not retrospectively restated, and accordingly, the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of June 30, 2019, and the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations for the three months ended September 30, 2018 were prepared using accounting standards that were different than those in effect for the three months ended September 30, 2019.
Significant Accounting Policies. We updated our accounting policies for Leases. There have been no other material changes to our significant accounting policies in Note 1 “Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019. 
Leases. Under ASC 842, a contract is or contains a lease when we have the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time. We determine if an arrangement is a lease at inception of the contract, which is the date on which the terms of the contract are agreed to, and the agreement creates enforceable rights and obligations. The commencement date of the lease is the date that the lessor makes an underlying asset available for our use. On the commencement date leases are evaluated for classification and assets and liabilities are recognized based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term. 
The lease term used to calculate the lease liability includes options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that the option will be exercised. The right-of-use (“ROU”) asset is initially measured as the amount of lease liability, adjusted for any initial lease costs, prepaid lease payments and any lease incentives. Variable lease payments, consisting primarily of reimbursement of costs incurred by lessors for common area maintenance, real estate taxes, and insurance are not included in the lease liability and are recognized as they are incurred. 
As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate at lease commencement to measure ROU assets and lease liabilities. The incremental borrowing rate used by us is based on baseline rates and adjusted by the credit spreads commensurate with our secured borrowing rate, over a similar term. We used the incremental borrowing rate on June 30, 2019 for all leases that commenced on or prior to that date. Operating lease expense is generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term. 
We have elected the practical expedient to account for the lease and non-lease components as a single lease component for the majority of our asset classes. For leases with a term of one year or less, we have elected not to record the ROU asset or liability. 
Recent Accounting Pronouncements.
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued ASC 842 which supersedes the lease recognition requirements in ASC 840, Leases, (“ASC 840”). The most prominent of the changes in ASC 842 is the recognition of ROU assets and lease liabilities by lessees for those leases classified as operating leases. 
Consistent with ASC 840, leases will be classified as either finance or operating, with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition in the statements of operations. In July 2018, the FASB issued an accounting standard update which amended ASC 842 and offered an additional (and optional) transition method by which entities could elect not to recast the comparative periods presented in financial statements in the period of adoption.
KLA adopted the new standard on July 1, 2019, the first day of fiscal 2020, using the optional adoption method whereby we did not adjust comparative period financial statements. Consequently, prior period balances and disclosures have not been restated. KLA elected certain practical expedients, which among other things, allowed us to carry forward prior conclusions about lease identification and classification. The adoption of ASC 842 resulted in the balance sheet recognition of additional lease assets and lease liabilities of $110.7 million and $108.7 million, respectively, related primarily to facilities, vehicles and other equipment. The adoption of ASC 842 did not have a material impact on beginning retained earnings, the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations, Cash Flows, or earnings per share. Additionally, the adoption of ASC 842 did not have a material impact on the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for arrangements in which KLA is the lessor. For additional information regarding KLA’s leases, see Note 9 “Leases” in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
In June 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update that changes the accounting for recognizing impairments of financial assets. Under the update, credit losses for certain types of financial instruments will be estimated based on expected losses. The update also modifies the impairment models for available-for-sale debt securities and for purchased financial assets with credit deterioration since their origination. The update is effective for us beginning in the first quarter of our fiscal year ending June 30, 2021, with early adoption permitted starting in the first quarter of fiscal year ending June 30, 2020. We are currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
In August 2018, the FASB issued an accounting standard update which modifies the existing accounting standards for fair value measurement disclosure. This update eliminates the disclosure of the amount of and reasons for transfers between level 1 and level 2 of the fair value hierarchy, and the policy for timing of transfers between levels. This standard update is effective for us beginning in the first quarter of our fiscal year ending June 30, 2021, and early adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
In August 2018, the FASB issued an accounting standard update to amend the disclosure requirements related to defined benefit pension and other post-retirement plans. Some of the changes include adding a disclosure requirement for significant gains and losses related to changes in the benefit obligation for the period and removing the amounts in accumulated other comprehensive income expected to be recognized as components of net periodic benefit cost over the next fiscal year. This standard update is effective for us for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2021, and early adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
In August 2018, the FASB issued an accounting standard update to align the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a cloud computing arrangement that is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software. The guidance clarifies which costs should be capitalized including the cost to acquire the license and the related implementation costs. This standard update is effective for us beginning in the first quarter of our fiscal year ending June 30, 2021, with an option to be adopted either prospectively or retrospectively. Early adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The following table represents the opening and closing balances of accounts receivables, contract assets and contract liabilities for the indicated periods. 
Our payment terms and conditions vary by contract type, although terms generally include a requirement of payment of 70% to 90% of total contract consideration within 30 to 60 days of shipment, with the remainder payable within 30 days of acceptance. 
The change in contract assets during the three months ended September 30, 2019 was mainly due to $27.6 million of revenue recognized for which the payment is subject to conditions other than passage of time, partially offset by $22.8 million of contract assets reclassified to net accounts receivable as our right to consideration for these contract assets became unconditional. Contract assets are included in Other current assets on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. 
During the three months ended September 30, 2019, we recognized revenue of $266.8 million that was included in contract liabilities as of July 1, 2019. This was partially offset by the value of products and services billed to customers for which control of the products and service has not transferred to the customers. Contract liabilities are included in current and non-current liabilities on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
As of September 30, 2019, we had $2.08 billion of remaining performance obligations, which represents our obligation to deliver products and services, and consists primarily of sales orders where written customer requests have been received. We expect to recognize approximately 5% to 15% of these performance obligations as revenue beyond the next twelve months, subject to risk of delays, pushouts, and cancellation by the customer, usually with limited or no penalties.
Refer to Note 18 “Segment Reporting and Geographic Information” of the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for information related to revenue by geographic region as well as significant product and service offerings. 
Our financial assets and liabilities are measured and recorded at fair value, except for our debt and certain equity investments in privately-held companies. Equity investments without a readily available fair value are accounted for using the measurement alternative. The measurement alternative is calculated as cost minus impairment, if any, plus or minus changes resulting from observable price changes. 
Our non-financial assets, such as goodwill, intangible assets, and land, property and equipment, are assessed for impairment when an event or circumstance indicates that an other-than-temporary decline in value may have occurred.
Level 2 Valuations based on quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, quoted prices in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.
Level 3 Valuations based on inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities.
As of September 30, 2019, the types of instruments valued based on quoted market prices in active markets included money market funds, certain U.S. Treasury securities and U.S. Government agency securities. Such instruments are generally classified within Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy. 
The principal market in which we execute our foreign currency contracts is the institutional market in an over-the-counter environment with a relatively high level of price transparency. The market participants generally are large financial institutions. Our foreign currency contracts’ valuation inputs are based on quoted prices and quoted pricing intervals from public data sources and do not involve management judgment. These contracts are typically classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.
The fair value of deferred payments and contingent consideration payable, the majority of which were recorded in connection with recent business combinations, were classified as Level 3 and estimated using significant inputs that were not observable in the market. See Note 6 “Business Combinations” of the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
There were no transfers between Level 1, Level 2 and Level 3 fair value measurements during the three months ended September 30, 2019. See Note 8 “Debt” of the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for disclosure of the fair value of our Senior Notes.
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)
The three months ended September 30, 2019 reflects the new accounting guidance for hedge accounting, which was adopted in the second quarter of fiscal year 2019. For additional details, refer to Note 16, “Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities” of the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The amounts reclassified out of accumulated OCI related to our defined benefit pension plans, which were recognized as a component of net periodic cost for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 were $0.2 million, respectively. For additional details, refer to Note 12, “Employee Benefit Plans” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019.
Actual maturities may differ from contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to call or prepay obligations with or without call or prepayment penalties. Realized gains and losses on available-for-sale securities for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 were immaterial.
On August 22, 2019, we acquired the outstanding shares of a privately-held company, primarily to expand our products and services offerings, for a total purchase consideration of $93.9 million, including the fair value of the promise to pay an additional consideration up to $60.0 million contingent on the achievement of certain revenue milestones. As of September 30, 2019, the estimated fair value of the additional consideration was $9.2 million, which was classified as a non-current liability on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
 We have included the financial results of the acquisition completed during the first quarter of the fiscal year 2020 in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements from the date of acquisition. These results were not material to our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The purchase price allocation is preliminary and as additional information becomes available, we may further revise the preliminary purchase price allocation during the remainder of the measurement period, which will not exceed 12 months from the closing of the acquisition. 
The $54.0 million of goodwill was assigned to the Wafer Inspection and Patterning reporting units. None of the goodwill recognized is deductible for income tax purposes.
Orbotech Acquisition
On February 20, 2019, we completed the acquisition of Orbotech for total purchase consideration of approximately $3.26 billion which was paid in part by cash of $1.90 billion, in part by KLA common stock with a fair value of $1.32 billion and the balance by the assumption of stock options and RSUs. Orbotech is a global supplier of yield-enhancing and process-enabling solutions for the manufacture of electronics products. KLA acquired Orbotech to extend and enhance its portfolio of products to address market opportunities in the printed circuit board, flat panel display, advanced packaging and semiconductor manufacturing areas. 
Preliminary Purchase Price Allocation
Represents the fair value of the assumed stock options and RSUs to the extent those related to services provided by the employee of Orbotech prior to closing. Also refer to Note 10, “Equity, Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plans and Non-Controlling Interest” of the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about assumed stock options and RSUs.
Primarily related to tax impact on the future amortization of intangible assets acquired and inventory fair value adjustments.
During the first quarter of the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020, we recorded measurement period adjustments to reflect facts and circumstances in existence as of the Acquisition Date. These adjustments primarily related to the valuation of individually immaterial net tangible assets of $2.1 million with corresponding decrease to goodwill.
KLA allocated the purchase price to tangible and identified intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on the preliminary estimates of their estimated fair values, which were determined using generally accepted valuation techniques based on estimates and assumptions made by management at the time of the Orbotech Acquisition and are subject to change during the measurement period which is not expected to exceed one year. The primary tasks that are required to be completed include discovery and the remeasurement of unknown uncertain tax positions that existed at the Acquisition Date, adjustments to the deferred tax liabilities for unremitted earnings, validation of synergies expected to be derived from the acquisition of Orbotech, recoverability of certain acquired assets and reallocation of certain acquired intangible assets between jurisdictions based on the outcome of ongoing tax audits, including any related tax impacts. Any adjustments to our preliminary purchase price allocation identified during the measurement period will be recognized in the period in which the adjustments are determined and recorded against goodwill.
The operating results of Orbotech have been included in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for the three months ended September 30, 2019. The goodwill was primarily attributable to the assembled workforce of Orbotech, planned growth in new markets and synergies expected to be achieved from the combined operations of KLA and Orbotech. None of the goodwill is deductible for income tax purposes. Goodwill arising from the Orbotech Acquisition has been allocated to the Specialty Semiconductor Process; and the PCB and Display reporting units during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019. For additional details, refer to Note 7 “Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Assets” of the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019.
Existing technology was identified from the products of Orbotech and its fair value was determined using the Relief-from-Royalty Method under the income approach, which estimates the cost savings generated by a company related to the ownership of an asset for which it would otherwise have had to pay royalties or license fees on revenues earned through the use of the asset. The discount rate used was determined at the time of measurement based on an analysis of the implied internal rate of return of the transaction, weighted average cost of capital and weighted average return on assets. The economic useful life was determined based on the technology cycle related to each developed technology, as well as the cash flows over the forecast period.
Customer contracts and related relationships represent the fair value of the existing relationships with the Orbotech customers and its fair value was determined using the Multi-Period Excess Earning Method which involves isolating the net earnings attributable to the asset being measured based on present value of the incremental after-tax cash flows (excess earnings) attributable solely to the intangible asset over its remaining useful life. The economic useful life was determined based on historical customer attrition rates.
Backlog primarily relates to the dollar value of purchase arrangements with customers, effective, as of a given point in time, that are based on mutually agreed terms which, in some cases, may still be subject to completion of written documentation and may be changed or canceled by the customer, often without penalty. Orbotech’s backlog consists of these arrangements with assigned shipment dates expected, in most cases, within three to twelve months. The fair value was determined using the Multi-Period Excess Earning Method. The economic useful life is based on the time to fulfill the outstanding order backlog obligation.
We believe the amounts of purchased intangible assets recorded above represent the fair values of and approximate the amounts a market participant would pay for, these intangible assets as of the Acquisition Date.
Other Fiscal 2019 Acquisitions
During the three months ended March 31, 2019 we acquired three privately-held companies primarily to expand our products and services offerings for an aggregate purchase price of $118.3 million, including a post-closing working capital adjustment, and the fair value of the promise to pay additional consideration of up to $13.0 million contingent on the achievement of certain milestones. As of September 30, 2019, the estimated fair value of the additional consideration was $5.3 million, which was classified as a non-current liability on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
During the three months ended September 30, 2018 we acquired two privately-held companies for an aggregate purchase price of $15.4 million, including the fair value of the promise to pay total additional consideration of up to $6.0 million contingent on the achievement of certain milestones. As of September 30, 2019, the estimated fair value of the 
additional consideration was $1.7 million, which is classified as a non-current liability on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
None of these acquisitions were individually material to our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 
The goodwill was primarily assigned to the Wafer Inspection and Patterning, and GSS reporting units, and mainly attributable to the assembled workforce, and planned growth in new markets. A portion of the goodwill is deductible for income tax purposes. 
The following unaudited pro forma financial information summarizes the combined results of operations for KLA, Orbotech, and the three acquisitions completed in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 as if the companies were combined as of the beginning of fiscal 2018. The unaudited pro forma information includes adjustments to amortization and depreciation for intangible assets and property, plant and equipment acquired, adjustments to stock-based compensation expense, the purchase accounting effect on inventory acquired, the purchase accounting effect on deferred revenue, interest expense and amortization of debt issuance costs associated with the Senior Notes financing, and transaction costs. 
We have not included pro forma results of operations for the acquisition of privately-held companies completed in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 or the first quarter of fiscal 2020 herein as they were not material to us on either an individual or in aggregate. We included the results of operations of each acquisition in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations from the date of each acquisition.
Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired in the current and prior business combinations. We have four reportable segments and six reporting units. For additional details, refer to Note 18, “Segment Reporting and Geographic Information” of the Condensed Consolidated Financial 
As of September 30, 2019, there have been no significant events or circumstances affecting the valuation of goodwill subsequent to the qualitative assessment performed in the third and fourth quarters of the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019. For additional details, refer to Note 7 “Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Assets,” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019. The next annual assessment of goodwill by reporting unit is scheduled to be performed in the third quarter of the fiscal year ending June 30, 2020.
Purchased Intangible Assets
Purchased intangible assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or asset group may not be recoverable. The change in the gross carrying amounts of intangible assets is due to acquisition of certain assets and liabilities of privately-held companies. For additional details, refer to Note 6 “Business Combinations” of the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 
As of September 30, 2019, future principal payments for our debt are $250.0 million for the remaining nine months in fiscal year 2020; $500.0 million in fiscal year 2022; and $2.70 billion after fiscal year 2023.
In March 2019 and November 2014, we issued $1.20 billion and $2.50 billion, respectively (each, a “2019 Senior Notes”, a “2014 Senior Notes”, and collectively the “Senior Notes”), aggregate principal amount of senior, unsecured long-term notes. 
The original discounts on the 2019 Senior Notes and the 2014 Senior Notes amounted to $6.7 million and $4.0 million, respectively and are being amortized over the life of the debt. Interest is payable semi-annually on May 1 and November 1 of each year for the 2014 Senior Notes and semi-annually on March 15 and September 15 of each year for the 2019 Senior Notes. The indenture for the Senior Notes (the “Indenture”) includes covenants that limit our ability to grant liens on our facilities and enter into sale and leaseback transactions, subject to certain allowances under which certain sale and leaseback transactions are not restricted. 
Based on the trading prices of the Senior Notes on the applicable dates, the fair value of the Senior Notes as of September 30, 2019 and June 30, 2019 was approximately $3.82 billion and $3.70 billion, respectively. While the Senior Notes are recorded at cost, the fair value of the long-term debt was determined based on quoted prices in markets that are not active; accordingly, the long-term debt is categorized as Level 2 for purposes of the fair value measurement hierarchy.
As of September 30, 2019, we were in compliance with all of our covenants under the Indenture associated with the Senior Notes. 
In November 2017, we entered into a Credit Agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) providing for a $750.0 million five-year unsecured Revolving Credit Facility (the “Revolving Credit Facility”), which replaced our prior Credit Facility. Subject to the terms of the Credit Agreement, the Revolving Credit Facility may be increased in an amount up to $250.0 million in the aggregate. In November 2018, we entered into an Incremental Facility, Extension and Amendment Agreement (the “Amendment”), which amends the Credit Agreement to (a) extend the Maturity Date (the “Maturity Date”) from November 30, 2022 to November 30, 2023, (b) increase the total commitment by $250.0 million and (c) effect certain other amendments to the Credit Agreement as set forth in the Amendment. After giving effect to the Amendment, the total commitments under the Credit Agreement are $1.00 billion. 
We may borrow, repay and reborrow funds under the Revolving Credit Facility until the Maturity Date, at which time such Revolving Credit Facility will terminate, and all outstanding loans under such facility, together with all accrued and unpaid interest, must be repaid. We may prepay outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility at any time without a prepayment penalty. 
The Revolving Credit Facility requires us to maintain an interest expense coverage ratio as described in the Credit Agreement, on a quarterly basis, covering the trailing four consecutive fiscal quarters of no less than 3.50 to 1.00. In addition, we are required to maintain the maximum leverage ratio as described in the Credit Agreement, on a quarterly basis of 3.00 to 1.00, covering the trailing four consecutive fiscal quarters for each fiscal quarter, which can be increased to 4.00 to 1.00 for a period of time in connection with a material acquisition or a series of material acquisitions. As of September 30, 2019, our maximum allowed leverage ratio was 4.00 to 1.00 following the Orbotech Acquisition.
We were in compliance with all covenants under the Credit Agreement as of September 30, 2019 and had no outstanding borrowings under the unfunded Revolving Credit Facility. 
We have operating leases for facilities, vehicles, and other equipment. Our facility leases are primarily used for administrative functions, research and development, manufacturing, and storage and distribution. Our finance leases are not material.
Our existing leases do not contain significant restrictive provisions or residual value guarantees; however, certain leases contain provisions for payment of maintenance, real estate taxes, or insurance costs by us. Our leases have remaining lease terms ranging from less than one year to eleven years, including periods covered by options to extend the lease when it is reasonably certain that the option will be exercised.
As of September 30, 2019, we did not have material leases that had not yet commenced.
As of September 30, 2019, we had 10.8 million shares available for issuance under our 2004 Equity Incentive Plan (the “2004 Plan”).
For details of the 2004 Plan refer to Note 9 “Equity, Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plans and Non-Controlling Interest,” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019. 
Assumed Equity Plans
As of September 30, 2019, there were 10,651 and 432,372 shares of our common stock underlying the outstanding Assumed Options and RSUs, respectively, under the Assumed Equity Plans. The weighted-average remaining contractual terms, the aggregate intrinsic values, and the weighted average exercise price for the stock options outstanding under the Assumed Equity Plans as of September 30, 2019 were 4.75 years, $0.6 million, and $63.08 per share, respectively. During the three months ended September 30, 2019, there were 3,907 Assumed Options exercised with a weighted-average exercise price of $29.26.
For details on the Assumed Equity Plans refer to Note 9 “Equity, Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plans and Non-Controlling Interest,” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019.
The fair value of stock-based awards is measured at the grant date and is recognized as an expense over the employee’s requisite service period. For RSUs granted without “dividend equivalent” rights, fair value is calculated using the closing price of our common stock on the grant date, adjusted to exclude the present value of dividends which are not accrued on those RSUs. The fair value for RSUs granted with “dividend equivalent” rights is determined using the closing price of our common stock on the grant date. The fair value for purchase rights under our Employee Stock Purchase Plan is determined using a Black-Scholes model.
As of September 30, 2019, the unrecognized stock-based compensation expense balance related to RSUs was $206.2 million, excluding the impact of estimated forfeitures, and will be recognized over a weighted-average remaining contractual term and an estimated weighted-average amortization period of 1.8 years. The intrinsic value of outstanding RSUs as of September 30, 2019 was $451.2 million. 
Employee Stock Purchase Plan
Our Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“ESPP”) provides that eligible employees may contribute up to 15% of their eligible earnings toward the semi-annual purchase of our common stock. The ESPP is qualified under Section 423 of the Internal Revenue Code. The employee’s purchase price is derived from a formula based on the closing price of the common stock on the first day of the offering period versus the closing price on the date of purchase (or, if not a trading day, on the immediately preceding trading day).
The offering period (or length of the look-back period) under the ESPP has a duration of six months, and the purchase price with respect to each offering period beginning on or after such date is, until otherwise amended, equal to 85% of the lesser of (i) the fair market value of our common stock at the commencement of the applicable six-month offering period or (ii) the fair market value of our common stock on the purchase date. We estimate the fair value of purchase rights under the ESPP using a Black-Scholes model. 
The ESPP shares are replenished annually on the first day of each fiscal year by virtue of an evergreen provision. The provision allows for share replenishment equal to the lesser of 2.0 million shares or the number of shares which we estimate will be required to be issued under the ESPP during the forthcoming fiscal year. As of September 30, 2019, a total of 2.6 million shares were reserved and available for issuance under the ESPP.
Quarterly cash dividends
On August 1, 2019, our Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.75 per share on the outstanding shares of our common stock, which was paid on September 3, 2019 to the stockholders of record as of the close of business on August 15, 2019. The total amount of regular quarterly cash dividends and dividend equivalents paid during the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 was $121.6 million and $119.9 million, respectively. The amount of accrued dividends equivalents payable for regular quarterly cash dividends on unvested RSUs with dividend equivalent rights as of September 30, 2019 and June 30, 2019 was $6.4 million and $7.3 million, respectively. These amounts will be paid upon vesting of the underlying RSUs. 
We have consolidated the results of Orbotech LT Solar, LLC (“OLTS”) and Orbograph Ltd. (“Orbograph”), in which we own approximately 84% and 94% of the outstanding equity interest, respectively. OLTS is engaged in the research, development and marketing of products for the deposition of thin film coating of various materials on crystalline silicon photovoltaic wafers for solar energy panels through plasma-enhanced chemical vapor deposition (“PECVD”). Orbograph is engaged in the development and marketing of character recognition solutions to banks, financial and other payment processing institutions and healthcare providers. 
Additionally, we have consolidated the results of PixCell, an Israeli company developing diagnostic equipment for point-of-care hematology applications of which we own approximately 52% of the outstanding equity interest and are entitled to appoint the majority of this company’s directors. 
Our Board of Directors has authorized a program which permits us to repurchase shares of our common stock. The intent of this program is to offset the dilution from our equity incentive plans, employee stock purchase plan, the issuance of shares in the Orbotech Acquisition, as well as to return excess cash to our stockholders. Subject to market conditions, applicable legal requirements and other factors, the repurchases were made in the open market in compliance with applicable securities laws, including the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules promulgated thereunder, such as Rule 10b-18 and Rule 10b5-1. This stock repurchase program has no expiration date and may be suspended at any time. On September 17, 2019, our Board of Directors authorized us to repurchase an additional $1.00 billion of our common stock. As of September 30, 2019, an aggregate of approximately $1.63 billion was available for repurchase under our stock repurchase program. 
As of September 30, 2019, we had repurchased 50 thousand shares for $8.0 million, for which repurchases had not settled prior to September 30, 2019. The amount was recorded as a component of other current liabilities for the period presented.
Basic net income per share is calculated by dividing net income available to common stockholders by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted net income per share is calculated by using the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period, increased to include the number of additional shares of common stock that would have been outstanding if the shares of common stock underlying our outstanding dilutive restricted stock units had been issued. The dilutive effect of outstanding restricted stock units is reflected in diluted net income per share by application of the treasury stock method. 
In May 2017, Orbotech received an assessment from the Israel Tax Authority (“ITA”) with respect to its fiscal years 2012 through 2014 (the “Assessment”, and the “Audit Period”, respectively), for an aggregate amount of tax, after offsetting all net operating losses (“NOLs”) available through the end of 2014, of approximately NIS 229.0 million (equivalent to approximately $66.0 million which includes related interest and linkage differentials to the Israeli consumer price index as of date of the issuance of the Tax Decrees, as defined below). 
On August 31, 2018, Orbotech filed an objection in respect of the tax assessment (the “Objection”). The ITA completed the second stage of the audit, in which the claims Orbotech raised in the Objection were examined by different personnel at the ITA. In addition, the ITA examined additional items during this second stage of the audit. As Orbotech and the ITA did not reach an agreement during the second stage, the ITA issued Tax Decrees to Orbotech on August 28, 2019 (“Tax Decrees”) for an aggregate amount of tax, after offsetting all NOLs available through the end of 2014, of approximately NIS 257 million (equivalent to approximately $74 million which includes related interest and linkage differentials to the Israeli consumer price index as of the date of the issuance of the Tax Decrees). These Tax Decrees replaced the Assessment. We believe that our recorded unrecognized tax benefits are sufficient to cover the resolution of these Tax Decrees. 
Orbotech filed a notice of appeal with respect to the above Tax Decrees with the District Court of Tel Aviv on September 26, 2019. The ITA and Orbotech have agreed to extend the filing of the ITA's arguments in support of the Tax Decrees to February 28, 2020. The ITA and Orbotech are continuing discussions in an effort to resolve this matter in a mutually agreeable manner.
In connection with the above, there is an ongoing criminal investigation in Israel against Orbotech, certain of its employees and its tax consultant. On April 11, 2018, Orbotech received a “suspect notification letter” (dated March 28, 2018) from the Tel Aviv District Attorney’s Office (Fiscal and Financial). In the letter, it was noted that the investigation file was transferred from the Assessment Investigation Officer to the District Attorney’s Office. The letter further states that the District Attorney’s Office has not yet made a decision regarding submission of an indictment against Orbotech; and that if after studying the case, a decision is made to consider prosecuting Orbotech, Orbotech will receive an additional letter, and within 30 days, Orbotech may present its arguments to the District Attorney’s Office as to why it should not be indicted. On October 27, 2019, we received a request for additional information from the District Attorney's Office. We will continue to monitor the progress of the District Attorney’s Office investigation, however, we cannot anticipate when the review of the case will be completed and what will be the results thereof. We intend to cooperate with the District Attorney’s Office to enable them to conclude their investigation.
Factoring. We have agreements (referred to as “factoring agreements”) with financial institutions to sell certain of our trade receivables and promissory notes from customers without recourse. We do not believe we are at risk for any material losses as a result of these agreements. In addition, we periodically sell certain letters of credit (“LCs”), without recourse, received from customers in payment for goods and services.
Purchase Commitments. We maintain commitments to purchase inventory from our suppliers as well as goods, services, and other assets in the ordinary course of business. Our liability under these purchase commitments is generally restricted to a forecasted time-horizon as mutually agreed upon between the parties. This forecasted time-horizon can vary among different suppliers. Our estimate of our significant purchase commitments for primarily material, services, supplies and asset purchases is approximately $643.5 million as of September 30, 2019, which are primarily due within the next 12 months. 
Actual expenditures will vary based upon the volume of the transactions and length of contractual service provided. In addition, the amounts paid under these arrangements may be less in the event that the arrangements are renegotiated or canceled. Certain agreements provide for potential cancellation penalties.
Guarantees and Contingencies. We maintain guarantee arrangements available through various financial institutions for up to $49.2 million, of which $43.0 million had been issued as of September 30, 2019, primarily to fund guarantees to customs authorities for value-added tax (“VAT”) and other operating requirements of our subsidiaries in Europe, Israel and Asia.
In addition, we may in limited circumstances enter into agreements that contain customer-specific commitments on pricing, tool reliability, spare parts stocking levels, response time and other commitments. Furthermore, we may give these customers limited audit or inspection rights to enable them to confirm that we are complying with these commitments. If a customer elects to exercise its audit or inspection rights, we may be required to expend significant resources to support the audit or inspection, as well as to defend or settle any dispute with a customer that could potentially arise out of such audit or inspection. To date, we have made no significant accruals in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for this contingency. While we have not in the past incurred significant expenses for resolving disputes regarding these types of commitments, we cannot make any assurance that it will not incur any such liabilities in the future.
The authoritative guidance requires companies to recognize all derivative instruments and hedging activities, including foreign currency exchange contracts and interest rate lock agreements, (collectively “derivatives”) as either assets or liabilities at fair value on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. In accordance with the accounting guidance, we designate foreign currency exchange contracts and interest rate lock agreements as cash flow hedges of certain forecasted foreign currency denominated sales, purchase and spending transactions, and the benchmark interest rate of the corresponding debt financing, respectively.
Our foreign subsidiaries operate and sell our products in various global markets. As a result, we are exposed to risks relating to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. We utilize foreign currency forward exchange contracts and option contracts to hedge against future movements in foreign exchange rates that affect certain existing and forecasted foreign currency denominated sales and purchase transactions, such as the Japanese yen, the euro, the pound sterling and the Israeli new shekel. We routinely hedge our exposures to certain foreign currencies with various financial institutions in an effort to minimize the impact of certain currency exchange rate fluctuations. These currency forward exchange contracts and options, designated as cash flow hedges, generally have maturities of less than 18 months. Cash flow hedges are evaluated for effectiveness monthly, based on changes in total fair value of the derivatives. If a financial counterparty to any of our hedging arrangements experiences financial difficulties or is otherwise unable to honor the terms of the foreign currency hedge, we may experience material losses.
In October 2014, we entered into a series of forward contracts (“Rate Lock Agreements”) to lock the benchmark rate on a portion of the Senior Notes. The Rate Lock Agreements had a notional amount of $1.00 billion in aggregate which matured in the second quarter of the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015. The Rate Lock Agreements were terminated on the date of the pricing of the $1.25 billion of 4.650% Senior Notes due in 2024 and we recorded the fair value of $7.5 million as a gain within accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (“OCI”) as of December 31, 2014. We recognized $0.2 million for each of the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, for the amortization of the gain recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), which amount reduced the interest expense. As of September 30, 2019, the unamortized portion of the fair value of the forward contracts for the Rate Lock Agreements was $3.8 million. For more details, refer to Note 16, “Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019. 
For derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the gains or losses is reported in OCI and reclassified into earnings in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. Prior to adopting the new accounting guidance for hedge accounting, time value was excluded from the assessment of effectiveness for derivatives designated as cash flow hedges. Time value was amortized on a mark-to-market basis and recognized in earnings over the life of the derivative contract. For derivative contracts executed after adopting the new accounting guidance, the election to include time value for the assessment of effectiveness is made on all forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges. The change in fair value of the derivative are recorded in OCI until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. The assessment of effectiveness of options contracts designated as cash flow hedges continue to exclude time value after adopting the new accounting guidance. The initial value of the component excluded from the assessment of effectiveness are recognized in earnings over the life of the derivative contract. Any difference between change in the fair value of the excluded components and the amounts recognized in earnings are recorded in OCI. 
For derivatives that are not designated as cash flow hedges, gains and losses are recognized in other expense (income), net. We use foreign currency forward contracts to hedge certain foreign currency denominated assets or liabilities. The gains and losses on these derivative instruments are largely offset by the changes in the fair value of the assets or liabilities being hedged.
Offsetting of Derivative Assets and Liabilities
Our receivable balances from these parties were $1.8 million at September 30, 2019 and immaterial as of June 30, 2019. Our payable balances from these parties were immaterial at September 30, 2019 and June 30, 2019.
ASC 280, Segment Reporting, establishes standards for reporting information about operating segments. Operating segments are defined as components of an enterprise about which separate financial information is evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision maker (“CODM”) in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance. Our CODM is our Chief Executive Officer.
Specialty Semiconductor Process
PCB, Display and Component Inspection
We engage in the research, development and marketing of products for the deposition of thin film coating of various materials on crystalline silicon photovoltaic wafers for solar energy panels. This reportable segment is comprised of one operating segment.
The CODM assesses the performance of each operating segment and allocates resources to those segments based on total revenue and segment gross margin and does not evaluate the segments using discrete asset information. Segment gross margin excludes corporate allocations and effects of foreign exchange rates, amortization of intangible assets, amortization of inventory fair value adjustments, and transaction costs associated with our acquisitions related to costs of revenues.
Acquisition-related charges primarily include amortization of intangible assets, amortization of inventory fair value adjustments, and other acquisition-related costs classified or presented as part of costs of revenues. 
Our significant operations outside the United States include manufacturing facilities in China, Germany, Israel and Singapore and sales, marketing and service offices in Japan, the rest of the Asia Pacific region and Europe. For geographical revenue reporting, revenues are attributed to the geographic location in which the customer is located. Long-lived assets consist of land, property and equipment, net and are attributed to the geographic region in which they are located.
Wafer Inspection, and Patterning products are offered in Semiconductor Process Control segment. Services are offered in multiple segments. Other includes primarily refurbished systems, remanufactured legacy systems, and enhancements and upgrades for previous-generation products which are part of Semiconductor Process Control segment. 
In the three months ended September 30, 2019, two customers accounted for approximately 17% and 12% of total revenues. In the three months ended September 30, 2018, two customers accounted for approximately 15% and 10% of total revenues. One customer on an individual basis accounted for greater than 10% of net accounts receivables at September 30, 2019 and June 30, 2019.
In September 2019, management approved a plan to streamline our organization and business processes that included the reduction of workforce, which is expected to be completed in the second half of our fiscal year 2021, primarily in our PCB, Display and Component Inspection segment, and a potential disposition of our solar energy business in our Other segment. Restructuring charges were immaterial for the three months ended September 30, 2019. Proceeds from disposition of our solar energy business are not expected to be material. 
We expect to incur additional restructuring charges, including additional severance costs and other related costs in future periods in connection with the completion of our workforce reduction. 
The information set forth above under Note 14, “Litigation and Other Legal Matters,” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part 1 is incorporated herein by reference.
Risks Associated with Our Industry 
Ongoing changes in the technology industry, as well as the semiconductor industry in particular, could expose our business to significant risks.
•the increasing cost of building and operating fabrication facilities and the impact of such increases on our customers’ capital equipment investment decisions; 
•differing market growth rates and capital requirements for different applications, such as memory, logic and foundry; 
•lower level of process control adoption by our memory customers compared to our foundry and logic customers;
•the emergence of disruptive technologies that change the prevailing semiconductor manufacturing processes (or the economics associated with semiconductor manufacturing) and, as a result, also impact the inspection and metrology requirements associated with such processes; 
•the possible introduction of integrated products by our larger competitors that offer inspection and metrology functionality in addition to managing other semiconductor manufacturing processes;
•the bifurcation of the semiconductor manufacturing industry into (a) leading edge manufacturers driving continued research and development into next-generation products and technologies and (b) other manufacturers that are content with existing (including previous generation) products and technologies;
•the ever escalating cost of next-generation product development, which may result in joint development programs between us and our customers or government entities to help fund such programs that could restrict our control of, ownership of and profitability from the products and technologies developed through those programs; and
•the entry by some semiconductor manufacturers into collaboration or sharing arrangements for capacity, cost or risk with other manufacturers, as well as increased outsourcing of their manufacturing activities, and greater focus only on specific markets or applications, whether in response to adverse market conditions or other market pressures. 
We are exposed to risks associated with a highly concentrated customer base.
•Certain customers have undergone significant ownership changes, created alliances with other companies, experienced management changes or have outsourced manufacturing activities, any of which may result in additional complexities in managing customer relationships and transactions. Any future change in ownership or management of our existing customers may result in similar challenges, including the possibility of the successor entity or new management deciding to select a competitor’s products.
•Semiconductor manufacturers generally must commit significant resources to qualify, install and integrate process control and yield management equipment into a semiconductor production line. We believe that once a semiconductor manufacturer selects a particular supplier’s process control and yield management equipment, the manufacturer generally relies upon that equipment for that specific production line application for an extended period of time. Accordingly, we expect it to be more difficult to sell our products to a given customer for that specific production line application and other similar production line applications if that customer initially selects a competitor’s equipment. Similarly, we expect it to be challenging for a competitor to sell its products to a given customer for a specific production line application if that customer initially selects our equipment.
Risks Related to Our Business Model and Capital Structure
In addition, the complexity of our products exposes us to other risks. We regularly recognize revenue from a sale upon shipment of the applicable product to the customer (even before receiving the customer’s formal acceptance of that product) in certain situations, including sales of products for which installation is considered perfunctory, transactions in which the product is sold to an independent distributor and we have no installation obligations, and sales of products where we have previously delivered the same product to the same customer location and that prior delivery has been accepted. However, our products are very technologically complex and rely on the interconnection of numerous subcomponents (all of which must perform to their respective specifications), so it is conceivable that a product for which we recognize revenue upon shipment may ultimately fail to meet the overall product’s required specifications. In such a situation, the customer may be entitled to certain remedies, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results for various periods and, as a result, our stock price.
While patent, copyright and trademark protection for our intellectual property is important, we believe our future success in highly dynamic markets is most dependent upon the technical competence and creative skills of our personnel. We attempt to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information through confidentiality and other agreements with our customers, suppliers, employees and consultants and through other security measures. We also maintain exclusive and non-exclusive licenses with third parties for strategic technology used in certain products. However, these employees, consultants and third parties may breach these agreements, and we may not have adequate remedies for wrongdoing. In addition, the laws of certain territories in which we develop, manufacture or sell our products may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. In any event, the extent to which we can protect our trade secrets through the use of confidentiality agreements is limited, and our success will depend to a significant extent on our ability to innovate ahead of our competitors.
Our industry includes large manufacturers with substantial resources to support customers worldwide. Some of our competitors are diversified companies with greater financial resources and more extensive research, engineering, manufacturing, marketing, and customer service and support capabilities than we possess. We face competition from companies whose strategy is to provide a broad array of products and services, some of which compete with the products and services that we offer. These competitors may bundle their products in a manner that may discourage customers from purchasing our products, including pricing such competitive tools significantly below our product offerings. In addition, we face competition from smaller emerging companies whose strategy is to provide a portion of the products and services that we offer, using innovative technology to sell products into specialized markets. The strength of our competitive positions in many of our existing markets is largely due to our leading technology, which is the result of continuing significant investments in product research and development. However, we may enter new markets, whether through acquisitions or new internal product development, in which competition is based primarily on product pricing, not technological superiority. Further, some new growth markets that emerge may not require leading technologies. Loss of competitive position in any of the markets we serve, or an inability to sell our products on favorable commercial terms in new markets we may enter, could negatively affect our prices, customer orders, revenues, gross margins and market share, any of which would negatively affect our operating results and financial condition.
We have a leveraged capital structure.
Borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility bear interest at a floating rate, and an increase in interest rates would require us to pay additional interest on any borrowings, which may have an adverse effect on the value and liquidity of our debt and the market price of our common stock could decline. The interest rate under our Revolving Credit Facility is also subject to an adjustment in conjunction with our credit rating downgrades or upgrades. Additionally, under our Revolving Credit Facility, we are required to comply with affirmative and negative covenants, which include the maintenance of certain financial ratios, the details of which can be found in Note 8, “Debt,” to our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 
•a negative impact on our ability to satisfy our future obligations;
•an increase in the portion of our cash flows that may have to be dedicated to increased interest and principal payments that may not be available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments, dividends, stock repurchases, general corporate or other purposes; 
•an impairment of our ability to obtain additional financing in the future; and
•obligations to comply with restrictive and financial covenants as noted in the above risk factor and Note 8, “Debt,” to our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 
Our ability to satisfy our future expenses as well as our new debt obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory and other factors. Furthermore, our future operations may not generate sufficient cash flows to enable us to meet our future expenses and service our new debt obligations, which may impact our ability to manage our capital structure to preserve and maintain our investment grade rating. If our future operations do not generate sufficient cash flows, we may need to access the money available for borrowing under our Revolving Credit Facility or enter into new financing arrangements to obtain necessary funds. If we determine it is necessary to seek additional funding for any reason, we may not be able to obtain such funding or, if funding is available, we may not be able to obtain it on acceptable terms. Any borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility will place further pressure on us to comply with the financial covenants. If we fail to make a payment associated with our debt obligations, we could be in default on such debt, and such a default could cause us to be in default on our other obligations. 
There can be no assurance that we will continue to declare cash dividends at all or in any particular amounts.
We are exposed to risks related to our commercial terms and conditions, including our indemnification of third parties, as well as the performance of our products.
In addition, we may in limited circumstances enter into agreements that contain customer-specific commitments on pricing, tool reliability, spare parts stocking levels, response time and other commitments. Furthermore, we may give these customers limited audit or inspection rights to enable them to confirm that we are complying with these commitments. If a customer elects to exercise its audit or inspection rights, we may be required to expend significant resources to support the audit or inspection, as well as to defend or settle any dispute with a customer that could potentially arise out of such audit or inspection. To date, we have made no significant accruals in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for this contingency. While we have not in the past incurred significant expenses for resolving disputes regarding these types of commitments, we cannot make any assurance that we will not incur any such liabilities in the future. Our business, financial condition and results of operations in a reported fiscal period could be materially and adversely affected if we expend significant amounts in supporting an audit or inspection, or defending or settling any purported claims, regardless of their merit or outcomes.
There are risks associated with our receipt of government funding for research and development.
We are exposed to additional risks related to our receipt of external funding for certain strategic development programs from various governments and government agencies, both domestically and internationally. Governments and government agencies typically have the right to terminate funding programs at any time in their sole discretion, or a project may be terminated by mutual agreement if the parties determine that the project’s goals or milestones are not being achieved, so there is no assurance that these sources of external funding will continue to be available to us in the future. In addition, under the terms of these government grants, the applicable granting agency typically has the right to audit the costs that we incur, directly and indirectly, in connection with such programs. Any such audit could result in modifications to, or even termination of, the applicable government funding program. For example, if an audit were to identify any costs as being improperly allocated to the applicable program, those costs would not be reimbursed, and any such costs that had already been reimbursed would have to be refunded. We do not know the outcome of any future audits. Any adverse finding resulting from any such audit could lead to penalties (financial or otherwise), termination of funding programs, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from receiving future government funding from the applicable government or government agency, any of which could adversely impact our operating results, financial condition and ability to operate our business.
In the past, we have recorded material charges related to the impairment of our goodwill and purchased intangible assets. Goodwill represents the excess of costs over the net fair value of net assets acquired in a business combination. Goodwill is not amortized, but is instead tested for impairment at least annually in accordance with authoritative guidance for goodwill. Purchased intangible assets with estimable useful lives are amortized over their respective estimated useful lives based on economic benefit if known or using the straight-line method, and are reviewed for impairment in accordance with authoritative guidance for long-lived assets. The valuation of goodwill and intangible assets requires assumptions and estimates of many critical factors, including revenue and market growth, operating cash flows, market multiples, and discount rates. A substantial decline in our stock price, or any other adverse change in market conditions, particularly if such change has the effect of changing one of the critical assumptions or estimates we previously used to calculate the value of our goodwill or intangible assets (and, as applicable, the amount of any previous impairment charge), could result in a change to the estimation of fair value that could result in an additional impairment charge.
We are exposed to risks related to our financial arrangements with respect to receivables factoring and banking arrangements.
We are subject to the risks of additional government actions in the event we were to breach the terms of any settlement arrangement into which we have entered.
General Commercial, Operational, Financial and Regulatory Risks
•exposure to the unique characteristics of each region in the global market, which can cause capital equipment investment patterns to vary significantly from period to period;
•periodic local or international economic downturns;
•compliance with customs regulations in the countries in which we do business;
•tariffs or other trade barriers (including those applied to our products or to parts and supplies that we purchase);
•political instability, natural disasters, legal or regulatory changes, acts of war or terrorism in regions where we have operations or where we do business;
•receiving prepayments for certain of our products and services sold in certain jurisdictions. These prepayments increase our cash flows for the quarter in which they are received. If our practice of requiring prepayments in those jurisdictions changes or deteriorates, our cash flows would be harmed. 
•longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable outside of the United States;
•difficulties in managing foreign distributors (including monitoring and ensuring our distributors’ compliance with applicable laws); and
•inadequate protection or enforcement of our intellectual property and other legal rights in foreign jurisdictions.
In addition, government controls, either by the United States or other countries, that restrict our business overseas or the import or export of our products or increase the cost of our operations through the imposition of tariffs or otherwise, could harm our business. For example, effective on October 30, 2018, the United States Department of Commerce added Fujian Jinhua Integrated Circuit Company, Ltd. (“JHICC”) to its entity list, restricting exports of technology to JHICC without a license. As a result, unless JHICC is subsequently removed from the entity list, we will be unable to fulfill orders JHICC has made for our products, accept future orders placed by JHICC for our products, and provide services for any of our products already installed at JHICC.
We are exposed to various risks related to the legal, regulatory and tax environments in which we perform our operations and conduct our business.
Our employees are vital to our success, and our key management, engineering and other employees are difficult to replace. We generally do not have employment contracts with our key employees. Further, we do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our employees. The expansion of high technology companies worldwide has increased demand and competition for qualified personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, or if we are not able to attract, assimilate and retain additional highly qualified employees to meet our current and future needs, our business and operations could be harmed.
We outsource a number of services to third-party service providers, which decreases our control over the performance of these functions. Disruptions or delays at our third-party service providers could adversely impact our operations.
We outsource a number of services, including our transportation, information systems management and logistics management of spare parts and certain accounting and procurement functions, to domestic and overseas third-party service providers. While outsourcing arrangements may lower our cost of operations, they also reduce our direct control over the services rendered. It is uncertain what effect such diminished control will have on the quality or quantity of products delivered or services rendered, on our ability to quickly respond to changing market conditions, or on our ability to ensure compliance with all applicable domestic and foreign laws and regulations. In addition, many of these outsourced service providers, including certain hosted software applications that we use for confidential data storage, employ cloud computing technology for such storage. These providers’ cloud computing systems may be susceptible to “cyber incidents,” such as intentional cyber attacks aimed at theft of sensitive data or inadvertent cyber-security compromises, which are outside of our control. If we do not effectively develop and manage our outsourcing strategies, if required export and other governmental approvals are not timely obtained, if our third-party service providers do not perform as anticipated, or do not adequately protect our data from cyber-related security breaches, or if there are delays or difficulties in enhancing business processes, we may experience operational difficulties (such as limitations on our ability to ship products), increased costs, manufacturing or service interruptions or delays, loss of intellectual property rights or other sensitive data, quality and compliance issues, and challenges in managing our product inventory or recording and reporting financial and management information, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.
We are exposed to risks related to cybersecurity threats and cyber incidents.
In the conduct of our business, we collect, use, transmit and store data on information systems. This data includes confidential information, transactional information and intellectual property belonging to us, our customers and our business partners, as well as personally-identifiable information of individuals. We allocate significant resources to network security, data encryption and other measures to protect our information systems and data from unauthorized access or misuse. Despite our ongoing efforts to enhance our network security measures, our information systems are susceptible to computer viruses, cyber-related security breaches and similar disruptions from unauthorized intrusions, tampering, misuse, criminal acts, including phishing, or other events or developments that we may be unable to anticipate or fail to mitigate and are subject to the inherent vulnerabilities of network security measures. We have experienced cyber-related attacks in the past, and may experience cyber-related attacks in the future. Our security measures may also be breached due to employee errors, malfeasance, or otherwise. Third parties may also attempt to influence employees, users, suppliers or customers to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our, our customers’ or business partners’ data. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to the information systems change frequently, and may not be recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures.
We carry insurance that provides some protection against the potential losses arising from a cybersecurity incident but it will not likely cover all such losses, and the losses that it does not cover may be significant.
We rely upon certain critical information systems for our daily business operations. Our inability to use or access our information systems at critical points in time could unfavorably impact our business operations.
Our global operations are dependent upon certain information systems, including telecommunications, the internet, our corporate intranet, network communications, email and various computer hardware and software applications. System failures or malfunctioning, such as difficulties with our customer relationship management (“CRM”) system, could disrupt our operations and our ability to timely and accurately process and report key components of our financial results. Our enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) system is integral to our ability to accurately and efficiently maintain our books and records, record transactions, provide critical information to our management, and prepare our financial statements. Any disruptions or difficulties that may occur in connection with our ERP system or other systems (whether in connection with the regular operation, periodic enhancements, modifications or upgrades of such systems or the integration of our acquired businesses into such systems) could adversely affect our ability to complete important business processes, such as the evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.
•we may have to devote unanticipated financial and management resources to acquired businesses;
•we may experience challenges in entering into new market segments for which we have not previously manufactured and sold products;
•the customers, distributors, suppliers, employees and others with whom the companies we acquire have business dealings may have a potentially adverse reaction to the acquisition;
•we may have difficulty implementing a cohesive framework of internal controls over the entire organization;
•we may have to write-off goodwill or other intangible assets; and
We have significant manufacturing operations in the United States, Singapore, Israel, Germany, United Kingdom, Italy and China. In addition, our business is international in nature, with our sales, service and administrative personnel and our customers located in numerous countries throughout the world. Operations at our manufacturing facilities and our assembly subcontractors, as well as our other operations and those of our customers, are subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, including work stoppages, acts of war, terrorism, health epidemics, fire, earthquake, volcanic eruptions, energy shortages, flooding or other natural disasters. Such disruption could cause delays in, among other things, shipments of products to our customers, our ability to perform services requested by our customers, or the installation and acceptance of our products at customer sites. We cannot provide any assurance that alternate means of conducting our operations (whether through alternate production capacity or service providers or otherwise) would be available if a major disruption were to occur or that, if such alternate means were available, they could be obtained on favorable terms.
In addition, as part of our cost-cutting actions, we have consolidated several operating facilities. Our California operations are now primarily centralized in our Milpitas facility. The consolidation of our California operations into a single campus could further concentrate the risks related to any of the disruptive events described above, such as acts of war or terrorism, earthquakes, fires or other natural disasters, if any such event were to impact our Milpitas facility.
The threat of terrorism targeted at, or acts of war in, the regions of the world in which we do business increases the uncertainty in our markets. Any act of terrorism or war that affects the economy or the industries we serve could adversely affect our business. Increased international political instability in various parts of the world, disruption in air transportation and further enhanced security measures as a result of terrorist attacks may hinder our ability to do business and may increase our costs of operations. We maintain significant operations in Israel. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors, and a state of hostility varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic challenges for Israel. In addition, some our employees in Israel are obligated to perform annual reserve duty in the Israel Defense Forces, and may be called to active military duty in emergency circumstances. We cannot assess the impact that emergency conditions in Israel in the future may have on our business, operations, financial condition or results of operations, but it could be material. Instability in any region could directly impact our ability to operate our business (or our customers’ ability to operate their businesses), cause us to incur increased costs in transportation, make such transportation unreliable, increase our insurance costs, and cause international currency markets to fluctuate. Instability in the region could also have the same effects on our suppliers and their ability to timely deliver their products. If international political instability continues or increases in any region in which we do business, our business and results of operations could be harmed. We are predominantly uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist acts and acts of war.
We self-insure certain risks including earthquake risk. If one or more of the uninsured events occurs, we could suffer major financial loss.
We purchase insurance to help mitigate the economic impact of certain insurable risks; however, certain risks are uninsurable, are insurable only at significant cost or cannot be mitigated with insurance. Accordingly, we may experience a loss that is not covered by insurance, either because we do not carry applicable insurance or because the loss exceeds the applicable policy amount or is less than the deductible amount of the applicable policy. For example, we do not currently hold earthquake insurance. An earthquake could significantly disrupt our manufacturing operations, a significant portion of which are conducted in California, an area highly susceptible to earthquakes. It could also significantly delay our research and engineering efforts on new products, much of which is also conducted in California. We take steps to minimize the damage that would be caused by an earthquake, but there is no certainty that our efforts will prove successful in the event of an earthquake. We self-insure earthquake risks because we believe this is a prudent financial decision based on our cash reserves and the high cost and limited coverage available in the earthquake insurance market. Certain other risks are also self-insured either based on a similar cost-benefit analysis, or based on the unavailability of insurance. If one or more of the uninsured events occurs, we could suffer major financial loss.
We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Although we hedge certain currency risks, we may still be adversely affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates or declining economic conditions in these countries.
We have some exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily the Japanese Yen, the euro, the pound sterling and the Israeli new shekel. We have international subsidiaries that operate and sell our products globally. In addition, an increasing proportion of our manufacturing activities are conducted outside of the United States, and many of the costs associated with such activities are denominated in foreign currencies. We routinely hedge our exposures to certain foreign currencies with certain financial institutions in an effort to minimize the impact of certain currency exchange rate fluctuations, but these hedges may be inadequate to protect us from currency exchange rate fluctuations. To the extent that these hedges are inadequate, or if there are significant currency exchange rate fluctuations in currencies for which we do not have hedges in place, our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business could be adversely affected. Furthermore, if a financial counterparty to our hedges experiences financial difficulties or is otherwise unable to honor the terms of the foreign currency hedge, we may experience material financial losses.
Our investment portfolio primarily consists of both corporate and government debt securities that are susceptible to changes in market interest rates and bond yields. As market interest rates and bond yields increase, those securities with a lower yield-at-cost show a mark-to-market unrealized loss. We believe we have the ability to realize the full value of all these investments upon maturity. However, an impairment of the fair market value of our investments, even if unrealized, must be reflected in our financial statements for the applicable period and may therefore have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for that period.
Compliance with federal securities laws, rules and regulations, as well as NASDAQ requirements, has become increasingly complex, and the significant attention and expense we must devote to those areas may have an adverse impact on our business.
Federal securities laws, rules and regulations, as well as NASDAQ rules and regulations, require companies to maintain extensive corporate governance measures, impose comprehensive reporting and disclosure requirements, set strict independence and financial expertise standards for audit and other committee members and impose civil and criminal penalties for companies and their chief executive officers, chief financial officers and directors for securities law violations. These laws, rules and regulations have increased, and in the future are expected to continue to increase, the scope, complexity and cost of our corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices, which could harm our results of operations and divert management’s attention from business operations.
A change in accounting standards or practices or a change in existing taxation rules or practices (or changes in interpretations of such standards, practices or rules) can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective.
New accounting standards and taxation rules and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements and taxation rules have occurred and will continue to occur in the future. Changes to (or revised interpretations or applications of) existing accounting standards or tax rules or the questioning of current or past practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. For example, in the quarter ended September 30, 2019, we adopted the FASB accounting standard update and amended our accounting for leases. Adoption of new standards may require changes to our processes, accounting systems, and internal controls. Difficulties encountered during adoption could result in internal control deficiencies or delay the reporting of our financial results. In addition, the passing of the Act in December 2017 caused us to significantly increase our provision for income taxes, which had a material adverse effect on our net income for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018. Further interpretations of the Act from the government and regulatory organizations may change our tax expense provided for our transitional tax liability and deferred tax adjustments as well as our provision liability or accounting treatment of the provisional liability which may potentially affect the measurement of these balances or potentially give rise to new deferred tax amounts.
