KLA-Tencor Corporation is a leading supplier of process control and yield management solutions for the semiconductor and related nanoelectronics industries. Our broad portfolio of inspection and metrology products, and related service, software and other offerings primarily supports integrated circuit (“IC” or “chip”) manufacturers throughout the entire semiconductor fabrication process, from research and development to final volume production. We provide leading-edge equipment, software and support that enable IC manufacturers to identify, resolve and manage significant advanced technology manufacturing process challenges and obtain higher finished product yields at lower overall cost. In addition to serving the semiconductor industry, we also provide a range of technology solutions to a number of other high technology industries, including advanced packaging, light emitting diode (“LED”), power devices, compound semiconductor and data storage industries, as well as general materials research. 
Our products and services are used by the vast majority of bare wafer, IC, lithography reticle (“reticle” or “mask”) and disk manufacturers around the world. Our products, services and expertise are used by our customers to measure, detect, analyze and resolve critical product defects that arise in that environment in order to control nanometric level manufacturing processes. Our revenues are driven largely by our customers’ spending on capital equipment and related maintenance services necessary to support key transitions in their underlying product technologies, or to increase their production volumes in response to market demand or expansion plans. Our semiconductor customers generally operate in one or more of the three major semiconductor markets - memory, foundry and logic. All three of these markets are characterized by rapid technological changes and sudden shifts in end-user demand, which influence the level and pattern of our customers’ spending on our products and services. Although capital spending in all three semiconductor markets has historically been very cyclical, the demand for more advanced and lower cost chips used in a growing number of consumer electronics, communications, data processing, and industrial and automotive products has resulted over the long term in a favorable demand environment for our process control and yield management solutions, particularly in the foundry and logic markets, which have higher levels of process control adoption than the memory market. 
As we are a supplier to the global semiconductor and semiconductor-related industries, our customer base continues to become more highly concentrated over time, thereby increasing the potential impact of a sudden change in capital spending by a major customer on our revenues and profitability. As our customer base becomes increasingly more concentrated, large orders from a relatively limited number of customers account for a substantial portion of our sales, which potentially exposes us to more volatility for revenues and earnings. In the global semiconductor related industries, China is emerging as a major region for manufacturing of logic and memory chips, adding to its role as the world’s largest consumer of ICs. Government initiatives are propelling China to expand its domestic manufacturing capacity and attracting semiconductor manufacturers from Taiwan, Korea, Japan and the US. China is currently seen as an important long term growth region for the semiconductor capital equipment sector. We are also subject to the cyclical capital spending that has historically characterized the semiconductor and semiconductor-related industries. The timing, length, intensity and volatility of the capacity-oriented capital spending cycles of our customers are unpredictable. 
Proposed Merger with Orbotech, Ltd.
On March 18, 2018, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger Agreement”) with Orbotech, Ltd. (“Orbotech”) under which we will acquire Orbotech for $38.86 in cash and 0.25 of a share of our common stock in exchange for each ordinary share of Orbotech. The merger contemplated by the Merger Agreement (the “Orbotech Merger”) is subject to approval by Orbotech’s shareholders, receipt of required regulatory approvals and satisfaction of the other customary closing conditions. For additional details, refer to Note 1 “Basis of Presentation” to the condensed consolidated financial statements, and Item 1A, “Risk Factors”.
•Revenue Recognition
•Inventories
•Equity and Cash-Based Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plans
•Contingencies and Litigation
•Valuation of Marketable Securities
Revenue Recognition 
We recognize revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or services have been rendered, the selling price is fixed or determinable, and collectibility is reasonably assured. We derive revenue from three sources—sales of systems, spare parts and services. In general, we recognize revenue for systems when the system has been installed, is operating according to predetermined specifications and is accepted by the customer. When we have demonstrated a history of successful installation and acceptance, we recognize revenue upon delivery and customer acceptance. 
•When the customer fab has previously accepted the same tool, with the same specifications, and when we can objectively demonstrate that the tool meets all of the required acceptance criteria. 
•When system sales to independent distributors have no installation requirement, contain no acceptance agreement, and 100% of the payment is due based upon shipment. 
•When the customer withholds acceptance due to issues unrelated to product performance, in which case revenue is recognized when the system is performing as intended and meets predetermined specifications. 
In circumstances in which we recognize revenue prior to installation, the portion of revenue associated with installation is deferred based on estimated fair value, and that revenue is recognized upon completion of the installation.
Trade-in rights are occasionally granted to customers to trade in tools in connection with subsequent purchases. We estimate the value of the trade-in right and reduce the revenue recognized on the initial sale. This amount is recognized at the earlier of the exercise of the trade-in right or the expiration of the trade-in right.
Spare parts revenue is recognized when the parts have been shipped, risk of loss has passed to the customer and collection of the resulting receivable is reasonably assured.
Service and maintenance contract revenue is recognized ratably over the term of the maintenance contract. Revenue from services performed in the absence of a maintenance contract, including consulting and training revenue, is recognized when the related services are performed and collectibility is reasonably assured.
We sell stand-alone software that is subject to software revenue recognition guidance. We periodically review selling prices to determine whether VSOE exists, and in situations where we are unable to establish VSOE for undelivered elements such as post-contract service, revenue is recognized ratably over the term of the service contract.
We also defer the fair value of non-standard warranty bundled with equipment sales as unearned revenue. Non-standard warranty includes services incremental to the standard 40-hour per week coverage for 12 months. Non-standard warranty is recognized ratably as revenue when the applicable warranty term period commences. 
The deferred system profit balance equals the value of products that have been shipped and billed to customers which have not met our revenue recognition criteria, less applicable product and warranty costs. Deferred system profit does not include the profit associated with product shipments to certain customers in Japan, to whom title does not transfer until customer acceptance. Shipments to such customers in Japan are classified as inventory at cost until the time of acceptance.
We enter into sales arrangements that may consist of multiple deliverables of our products and services where certain elements of the sales arrangement are not delivered and accepted in one reporting period. Judgment is required to properly identify the accounting units of the multiple deliverable transactions and to determine the manner in which revenue should be allocated among the accounting units. Additionally, judgment is required to interpret various commercial terms and determine when all criteria of revenue recognition have been met in order for revenue recognition to occur in the appropriate accounting period. While changes in the allocation of the estimated selling price between the accounting units will not affect the amount of total revenue recognized for a particular arrangement, any material changes in these allocations could impact the timing of revenue recognition, which could have a material effect on our financial position and results of operations.
We performed a qualitative assessment of the goodwill by reporting unit during the three months ended March 31, 2018 and concluded that there was no impairment. We assess goodwill for impairment annually as well as whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. The next annual evaluation of the goodwill by reporting unit will be performed in the third quarter of the fiscal year ending June 30, 2019. Long-lived intangible assets are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. 
Inventories
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
Revenues and Gross Margin
Product revenues increased during the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the three months ended December 31, 2017 and March 31, 2017, primarily due to increased investments from our memory customers for next generation technology as well as capacity-related investments.
Product revenues increased during the nine months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the nine months ended March 31, 2017, primarily due to increased investments from our memory and logic customers for next generation technology as well as capacity-related investments.
Service revenues are generated from maintenance contracts, as well as billable time and material service calls made to our customers after the expiration of the warranty period. The amount of our service revenues is typically a function of the number of post-warranty systems installed at our customers’ sites and the utilization of those systems, but it is also impacted by other factors, such as our rate of service contract renewals, the types of systems being serviced and fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Service revenues during the three months ended March 31, 2018 increased compared to each of the three months ended December 31, 2017 and March 31, 2017, and service revenues during the nine months ended March 31, 2018 increased compared to the nine months ended March 31, 2017, primarily as a result of an increase over time in the number of post-warranty systems installed at our customers’ sites over that time period.
Revenues by region
A significant portion of our revenues continues to be generated in Asia, where a substantial portion of the world’s semiconductor manufacturing capacity is located, and we expect that trend to continue.
Gross margin
Our gross margin decreased to 63.9% during the three months ended March 31, 2018 from 64.4% during the three months ended December 31, 2017, primarily due to higher service and manufacturing costs, and a decrease in manufacturing efficiencies, partially offset by a favorable mix of products and services sold, and higher revenue volume of products and services.
Our gross margin increased to 63.9% during the three months ended March 31, 2018, from 62.4% during the three months ended March 31, 2017, primarily due to a favorable mix of products and services sold, higher revenue volume of products and services, and lower customer support costs, partially offset by higher manufacturing costs, and a decrease in manufacturing efficiencies. 
Our gross margin increased to 64.0% during the nine months ended March 31, 2018, from 63.0% during the nine months ended March 31, 2017, primarily due to higher revenue volume of products and services, and a favorable mix of products and services sold, and lower customer support costs, partially offset by higher manufacturing costs, and a decrease in manufacturing efficiencies. 
Our future operating results will depend significantly on our ability to produce products and provide services that have a competitive advantage in our marketplace. To do this, we believe that we must continue to make substantial and focused investments in our research and development. We remain committed to product development in new and emerging technologies as we address the yield challenges our customers face at future technology nodes.
Interest Expense and Other Expense (Income), Net
Other expense (income), net is comprised primarily of realized gains or losses on sales of marketable securities, gains or losses from revaluations of certain foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities as well as foreign currency contracts, impairments associated with equity investments in privately-held companies and any subsequent recoveries of impaired investments, interest-related accruals (such as interest and penalty accruals related to our tax obligations) and interest income earned on our investment and cash portfolio.
The decrease in other expense (income), net during the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the three months ended December 31, 2017 was primarily due to net foreign currency loss of $1.5 million, partially offset by an increase in interest income of $1.2 million. 
The increase in other expense (income), net during the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017 was primarily due to an increase in interest income of $3.5 million and an increase in interest accruals related to uncertain tax positions of $1.3 million, partially offset by a net foreign currency loss of $1.9 million. 
The increase in other expense (income), net during the nine months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the nine months ended March 31, 2017 was primarily due to an increase in interest income of $10.4 million, an increase in interest accruals related to uncertain tax positions of $1.8 million, partially offset by a net foreign currency loss of $1.5 million and a decrease in net gains from our investments in a privately-held company of $1.2 million. 
This Act includes significant changes to the U.S. corporate income tax system which reduces the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35.0% to 21.0% as of January 1, 2018; shifts to a modified territorial tax regime which requires companies to pay a transition tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred; and creates new taxes on certain foreign-sourced earnings. The decrease in the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35.0% to 21.0% results in a blended statutory tax rate of 28.1% for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2018. The new taxes for certain foreign-sourced earnings under the Act are effective for the Company after the fiscal year ending June 30, 2018. 
•Tax expense decreased by $13.0 million during the three months ended March 31, 2018 relating to the reduction of the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35.0% to 28.1% for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2018; 
•Tax expense decreased by $10.1 million during the three months ended March 31, 2018 primarily relating to a decrease in our unrecognized tax benefits from the expiration of the statute of limitations during the three months ended March 31, 2018; partially offset by
•Tax expense increased by $100.4 million during the nine months ended March 31, 2018 relating to the re-measurement of our deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the Act’s new corporate tax rate of 21.0%; partially offset by
•Tax expense decreased by $37.3 million relating to the reduction of the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35.0% to 28.1% for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2018.
We expect a recurring tax rate of 17% for the remaining three months of the fiscal year ending June 30, 2018. In addition, there will be an increase or decrease in tax expense for the remaining three months of the fiscal year ending June 30, 2018 for changes in uncertain tax positions and items treated as period costs that are not included in the recurring tax rate. Our recurring tax rate differs from our effective tax rate as a result of inclusion of certain period costs in our effective tax rate but not in the recurring tax rate. There will also be changes in the provisional tax amounts as a result of the Act related to the effects on our deferred tax balances and the transition tax as additional information becomes available. The new taxes for certain foreign-sourced earnings under the Act are effective for us after the fiscal year ending June 30, 2018.
As of March 31, 2018, our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaled $2.89 billion, which is a decrease of $126.8 million from June 30, 2017. The decrease is mainly due to the payment of $721.3 million for Senior Notes, term loans, and partial repayment of the borrowed amount under the Revolving Credit Facility, payment of dividends and dividend equivalents of $285.0 million, and stock repurchases of $165.1 million, partially offset by our cash generated from operations, proceeds from the Revolving Credit Facility, net of issuance costs, of $248.7 million, and net proceeds from marketable securities of $215.9 million. As of March 31, 2018, $2.11 billion of our $2.89 billion of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were held by our foreign subsidiaries and branch offices. We have accrued U.S. federal taxes under the Tax Cut and Jobs Act and can repatriate these funds without incurring any additional U.S. federal tax other than if the U.S. dollar value of the funds increase. We currently intend to indefinitely reinvest $1.91 billion of the cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities held by our foreign subsidiaries. If, however, a portion of these funds were to be repatriated to the United States, we would be required to accrue and pay state and foreign taxes of approximately 1%-22% of the funds repatriated. The amount of taxes due will depend on the amount and manner of the repatriation, as well as the location from which the funds are repatriated. We have accrued state and foreign tax on the remaining cash of $196.6 million of the $2.11 billion held by our foreign subsidiaries and branch offices. As such, these funds can be returned to the U.S. without accruing any additional U.S. tax expense.
During the three months ended March 31, 2018, our Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.59 per share on our outstanding common stock, which was paid on March 1, 2018 to our stockholders of record as of the close of business on February 15, 2018. During the same period in fiscal year 2017, our Board of Directors declared and paid a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.54 per share on our outstanding common stock. The total amount of regular quarterly cash dividends and dividend equivalents paid during the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 was $92.1 million and $84.7 million, respectively. The total amount of regular quarterly cash dividends and dividend equivalents paid during the nine months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 was $278.8 million and $250.8 million, respectively. The amount of accrued dividends payable for regular quarterly cash dividends on unvested restricted stock units with dividend equivalent rights as of March 31, 2018 and June 30, 2017 was $5.6 million and $4.8 million, respectively. These amounts will be paid upon vesting of the underlying unvested restricted stock units as described in Note 8, “Equity and Long-term Incentive Compensation Plans,” to the condensed consolidated financial statements.
On November 19, 2014, we declared a special cash dividend of $16.50 per share on our outstanding common stock which was paid on December 9, 2014 to our stockholders of record as of the close of business on December 1, 2014. The declaration and payment of the special cash dividend was part of our leveraged recapitalization transaction under which the special cash dividend was financed through a combination of existing cash and proceeds from the debt financing disclosed in Note 7, “Debt,” to the condensed consolidated financial statements that was completed during the three months ended December 31, 2014. As of the declaration date, the total amount of the special cash dividend accrued by us was approximately $2.76 billion, substantially all of which was paid out during the three months ended December 31, 2014, except for the aggregate special cash dividend of $43.0 million that was accrued for the unvested restricted stock units. As of March 31, 2018 and June 30, 2017, we had $2.8 million and $9.0 million, respectively, of accrued dividends payable for the special cash dividend with respect to outstanding unvested restricted stock units, which will be paid when such underlying unvested restricted stock units vest. During the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, the total special cash dividends paid with respect to vested restricted stock units were immaterial and $0.9 million, respectively. During the nine months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, the total special cash dividends paid with respect to vested restricted stock units were $6.3 million and $8.6 million, respectively. Other than the special cash dividend declared during the three months ended December 31, 2014, we historically have not declared any special cash dividend. 
The shares repurchased under our stock repurchase program have reduced our basic and diluted weighted-average shares outstanding. The stock repurchase program is intended, in part, to offset shares issued in connection with the purchases under our ESPP program and the vesting of employee restricted stock units. 
Net cash provided by investing activities during the nine months ended March 31, 2018 was $164.8 million compared to cash used in investing activities of $406.5 million during the nine months ended March 31, 2017. This change was mainly due to the net purchases of marketable securities of $376.4 million during the nine months ended March 31, 2017, compared to the net liquidation of investments in marketable securities of approximately $215.9 million during the nine months ended March 31, 2018.
The original discount on the Senior Notes amounted to $4.0 million and is being amortized over the life of the debt. Interest is payable semi-annually on May 1 and November 1 of each year. The debt indenture (the “Indenture”) includes covenants that limit our ability to grant liens on its facilities and enter into sale and leaseback transactions, subject to certain allowances under which certain sale and leaseback transactions are not restricted. As of March 31, 2018, we were in compliance with all of the covenants under the Indenture associated with the Senior Notes.
In November 2017, we entered into a Credit Agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) providing for a $750.0 million five-year unsecured revolving credit facility (the “Revolving Credit Facility”), which replaced our prior Credit Facility. Subject to the terms of the Credit Agreement, the Revolving Credit Facility may be increased in an amount up to $250.0 million in the aggregate. During the third quarter of the fiscal year ending June 30, 2018, we made a principal payment of $25.0 million. As of March 31, 2018, we had outstanding $225.0 million aggregate principal amount of borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility. 
We may borrow, repay and reborrow funds under the Revolving Credit Facility until its maturity on November 30, 2022 (the “Maturity Date”), at which time such Revolving Credit Facility will terminate, and all outstanding loans under such facility, together with all accrued and unpaid interest, must be repaid. We may prepay the Revolving Credit Facility at any time without a prepayment penalty. 
The Revolving Credit Facility requires us to maintain an interest expense coverage ratio as described in the Credit Agreement, on a quarterly basis, covering the trailing four consecutive fiscal quarters of no less than 3.50 to 1.00. In addition, we are required to maintain the maximum leverage ratio as described in the Credit Agreement, on a quarterly basis of 3.00 to 1.00, covering the trailing four consecutive fiscal quarters for each fiscal quarter, which can be increased to 4.00 to 1.00 for a period of time in connection with a material acquisition or a series of material acquisitions.
We were in compliance with the financial covenants under the Credit Agreement as of March 31, 2018 (the interest expense coverage ratio was 13.92 to 1.00 and the leverage ratio was 1.52 to 1.00). Considering our current liquidity position, short-term financial forecasts and ability to prepay the Revolving Credit Facility, if necessary, we expect to continue to be in compliance with our financial covenants at the end of our fiscal year ending June 30, 2018.
We have agreements with financial institutions to sell certain of our trade receivables and promissory notes from customers without recourse. In addition, we periodically sell certain letters of credit (“LCs”), without recourse, received from customers in payment for goods and services.
We maintain guarantee arrangements available through various financial institutions for up to $22.5 million, of which $16.5 million had been issued as of March 31, 2018, primarily to fund guarantees to customs authorities for value-added tax (“VAT”) and other operating requirements of our subsidiaries in Europe and Asia. 
Working capital was $3.34 billion as of March 31, 2018, which is an increase of $241.2 million compared to our working capital of $3.10 billion as of June 30, 2017. As of March 31, 2018, our principal sources of liquidity consisted of $2.89 billion of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. Our liquidity may be affected by many factors, some of which are based on the normal ongoing operations of the business, spending for business acquisitions including the pending acquisition of Orbotech, and other factors such as uncertainty in the global and regional economies and the semiconductor equipment industries. Although cash requirements will fluctuate based on the timing and extent of these factors, we believe that cash generated from operations, together with the liquidity provided by existing cash and cash equivalents balances and our $750.0 million Revolving Credit Facility, will be sufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements associated with working capital needs, capital expenditures, cash dividends, stock repurchases and other contractual obligations, including repayment of outstanding debt, for at least the next 12 months. 
In October 2014, in anticipation of the issuance of the Senior Notes, we entered into a series of forward contracts (“Rate Lock Agreements”) to lock the benchmark rate on a portion of the Senior Notes. The objective of the Rate Lock Agreements was to hedge the risk associated with the variability in interest rates due to the changes in the benchmark rate leading up to the closing of the intended financing, on the notional amount being hedged. The Rate Lock Agreements had a notional amount of $1.00 billion in aggregate which matured in the second quarter of the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015. The Rate Lock Agreements were terminated on the date of pricing of the $1.25 billion of 4.650% Senior Notes due in 2024 and we recorded the fair value of $7.5 million as a gain within accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) as of December 31, 2014. We recognized $0.2 million for each of the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 and $0.6 million each of the nine months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 for the amortization of the gain recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), which amount reduced the interest expense. As of March 31, 2018, the unamortized portion of the fair value of the forward contracts for the rate lock agreements was $5.0 million. 
In addition, we may in limited circumstances enter into agreements that contain customer-specific commitments on pricing, tool reliability, spare parts stocking levels, service response time and other commitments. Furthermore, we may give these customers limited audit or inspection rights to enable them to confirm that we are complying with these commitments. If a customer elects to exercise its audit or inspection rights, we may be required to expend significant resources to support the audit or inspection, as well as to defend or settle any dispute with a customer that could potentially arise out of such audit or inspection. To date, we have made no significant accruals in our condensed consolidated financial statements for this contingency. While we have not in the past incurred significant expenses for resolving disputes regarding these types of commitments, we cannot make any assurance that we will not incur any such liabilities in the future.
Equity Repurchase Plans
