See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements
Basis of Presentation. The condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared by the Company pursuant to the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations. 
The condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of KLA-Tencor and its majority-owned subsidiaries. All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
The results of operations for the three months ended September 30, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for any other interim period or for the full fiscal year ending June 30, 2019.
Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior year’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements to conform to the current year presentation. The reclassifications did not have material effects on the prior year’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, Statements of Operations, Comprehensive Income and Cash Flows.
Proposed Merger with Orbotech, Ltd. 
Comparability. Effective on the first day of fiscal 2019, the Company adopted Accounting Standards Update 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (“ASC 606”). Prior periods were not retrospectively restated, and accordingly, the consolidated balance sheet as of June 30, 2018, and the condensed consolidated statements of operations for the three months ended September 30, 2017 were prepared using accounting standards that were different than those in effect for the three months ended September 30, 2018.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued ASC 606, which supersedes the guidance in ASC 605, Revenue Recognition (“ASC 605”). Under ASC 606, revenue is recognized when a customer obtains control of promised goods or services in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. In addition, ASC 606 requires enhanced disclosures, including disclosure of the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. The Company adopted the ASC 606 as of July 1, 2018, using the modified retrospective transition approach. For additional details, refer to Note 2 “Revenue.” 
In January 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update that changes the accounting for financial instruments primarily related to equity investments (other than those accounted for under the equity method of accounting or those that result in consolidation of the investee), financial liabilities under the fair value option, and the presentation and disclosure requirements for financial instruments. The Company adopted this update beginning in the first quarter of its fiscal year ending June 30, 2019 on a prospective basis and the adoption had no material impact on its condensed consolidated financial statements.
In October 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update to recognize the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory when they occur. This eliminates the exception to postpone recognition until the asset has been sold to an outside party. The Company adopted this update beginning in the first quarter of its fiscal year ending June 30, 2019 on a modified retrospective basis and the adoption had no material impact on its condensed consolidated financial statements.
In January 2017, the FASB issued an accounting standard on clarifying the definition of a business, with the objective of adding guidance to assist entities with evaluating whether transactions should be accounted for as acquisitions (or disposals) of assets or businesses. The Company adopted this update beginning in the first quarter of its fiscal year ending June 30, 2019 on a prospective basis.
In January 2017, the FASB issued an accounting standard update to simplify the subsequent measurement of goodwill by removing the second step of the two-step impairment test, which requires an entity to determine the fair value of assets and liabilities similar to what is required in a purchase price allocation. Under the update, goodwill impairment will be calculated as the amount by which a reporting unit’s carrying value exceeds its fair value. The Company early adopted this update in the first quarter of its fiscal year ending June 30, 2019 on a prospective basis. 
In May 2017, the FASB issued an accounting standard update regarding stock compensation that provides guidance about which changes to the terms and conditions of a share-based payment award require an entity to apply modification accounting in order to reduce diversity in practice and reduce complexity. The Company adopted this update beginning in the first quarter of its fiscal year ending June 30, 2019 on a prospective basis and the adoption had no material impact on its condensed consolidated financial statements.
In February 2018, the FASB issued an accounting standard update that provides an option to reclassify disproportional tax effects and other income tax effects (“stranded tax effects”) caused by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“the Act”) from accumulated other comprehensive income (“AOCI”) to retained earnings. The Company early adopted this update in the first quarter of its fiscal year ending June 30, 2019 and applied this update in the period of adoption. As a result of the adoption, the Company made a reclassification from AOCI to beginning retained earnings of approximately $10.7 million related to the stranded tax effects.
In February 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update which amends the existing accounting standards for leases. Consistent with current guidance, the recognition, measurement, and presentation of expenses and cash flows arising from a lease by a lessee primarily will depend on its classification. Under the new guidance, a lessee will be required to recognize assets and liabilities for all leases with lease terms of more than 12 months using a modified retrospective transition method. In July 2018, the FASB issued an amendment to the standard which provide the Company an option to apply the practical expedient allowed in the standard retrospectively with the cumulative effect recognized as of the date of adoption. The update is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of its fiscal year ending June 30, 2020. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on its condensed consolidated financial statements.
In June 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update that changes the accounting for recognizing impairments of financial assets. Under the update, credit losses for certain types of financial instruments will be estimated based on expected losses. The update also modifies the impairment models for available-for-sale debt securities and for purchased financial assets with credit deterioration since their origination. The update is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of its fiscal year ending June 30, 2021, with early adoption permitted starting in the first quarter of fiscal year ending June 30, 2020. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on its condensed consolidated financial statements.
In August 2017, the FASB issued an accounting standard update to hedge accounting to better align the Company’s risk management activities by refining financial and non-financial hedging strategy eligibilities. This update also amends the presentation and disclosure requirements to increase transparency to better understand an entity’s risk exposures and how hedging strategies are used to manage those exposures. This standard update is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of its fiscal year ending June 30, 2020, and early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on its condensed consolidated financial statements.
In August 2018, the FASB issued an accounting standard update which modifies the existing accounting standards for fair value measurement disclosure. This update eliminates the amount of and reasons for transfers between level 1 and level 2 of the fair value hierarchy, and the policy for timing of transfers between levels. This standard update is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of its fiscal year ending June 30, 2021, and early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on its condensed consolidated financial statements.
In August 2018, the FASB issued an accounting standard update to amend the disclosure requirements related to defined benefit pension and other post-retirement plans. Some of the changes include adding a disclosure requirement for significant gains and losses related to changes in the benefit obligation for the period, and removing the amounts in accumulated other comprehensive income expected to be recognized as components of net periodic benefit cost over the next fiscal year. This standard update is effective for the Company for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2021, and early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on its condensed consolidated financial statements.
In August 2018, the FASB issued an accounting standard update to align the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a cloud computing arrangement that is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software. The guidance clarifies which costs should be capitalized including the cost to acquire the license and the related implementation costs. This standard update is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of its fiscal year ending June 30, 2021, with an option to be adopted either prospectively or retrospectively. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on its condensed consolidated financial statements.
Significant Accounting Policies. Except for the accounting policy for revenue recognition, which was updated as a result of adopting ASC 606, and Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income (“GILTI”), there have been no material changes to our significant accounting policies in Note 1 “Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018. 
Revenue Recognition. The Company primarily derives revenue from the sale of process control and yield management solutions for the semiconductor and related nanoelectronics industries, maintenance and support of all these products, installation and training services and the sale of spare parts. The Company’s solutions provide a comprehensive portfolio of inspection, metrology and data analytics products, which are accompanied by a flexible portfolio of services to enable its customers to maintain the performance and productivity of the solutions purchased. The Company’s solutions are generally not sold with a right of return, nor has the Company experienced significant returns from or refunds to its customers. 
The Company accounts for a contract with a customer when there is approval and commitment from both parties, the rights of the parties are identified, payment terms are identified, the contract has commercial substance and collectibility of consideration is probable. 
The Company’s revenues are measured based on consideration stipulated in the arrangement with each customer, net of any sales incentives and amounts collected on behalf of third parties, such as sales taxes. The revenues are recognized as separate performance obligations that are satisfied by transferring control of the product or service to the customer. 
The Company’s arrangements with its customers include various combinations of products and services, which are generally capable of being distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations. A product or service is considered distinct if it is separately identifiable from other deliverables in the arrangement and if a customer can benefit from it on its own or with other resources that are readily available to the customer.
The transaction consideration, including any sales incentives, is allocated between separate performance obligations of an arrangement based on the stand-alone selling prices (“SSP”) for each distinct product or service. Management considers a variety of factors to determine the SSP, such as, historical standalone sales of products and services, discounting strategies and other observable data.
From time to time, the Company’s contracts are modified to account for additional, or to change existing, performance obligations. The Company’s contract modifications are generally accounted for prospectively.
•whether the Company has a present right to payment;
•the customer has legal title;
•the customer has significant risk and rewards of ownership; and
•the customer has accepted the product, or whether customer acceptance is considered a formality based on history of acceptance of similar products (for example, when the customer has previously accepted the same tool, with the same specifications, and when we can objectively demonstrate that the tool meets all of the required acceptance criteria, and when the installation of the system is deemed perfunctory).
Not all of the indicators need to be met for the Company to conclude that control has transferred to the customer. In circumstances in which revenue is recognized prior to the product acceptance, the portion of revenue associated with its performance obligations to install product is deferred and recognized upon acceptance. 
The Company enters into volume purchase agreements with some of its customers. The Company adjusts the transaction consideration for estimated credits earned by its customers for such incentives. These credits are estimated based upon the forecasted and actual product sales for any given period, and agreed-upon incentive rate. The estimate is updated at each reporting period. 
The Company offers perpetual and term licenses for defects and data analysis software. The primary difference between perpetual and term licenses is the duration over which the customer can benefits from the use of the software, while the functionality and the features of the software are the same. The software is generally bundled with the post-contract customer support (“PCS”), which includes unspecified software updates that are made available throughout the entire term of the arrangement. Revenue from software licenses is recognized at a point in time, when the software is made available to the customer. Revenue from PCS is deferred at contract inception and recognized ratably over the service period, or as services are performed. 
The majority of product sales include a standard 12-month warranty that is not separately paid for by the customers. The customers may also purchase extended warranty for periods beyond the initial year as part of the initial product sale. The Company has concluded that the standard 12-month warranty as well as any extended warranty periods included in the initial product sales are separate performance obligations. The estimated fair value of warranty services is deferred and recognized ratably as revenue over the warranty period, as the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits of warranty services provided by the Company.
Additionally, the Company offers product maintenance and support services, which the customer may purchase separately from the standard and extended warranty offered as part of the initial product sale. Revenue from separately negotiated maintenance and support service contracts is also recognized over time based on the terms of the applicable service period. Revenue from services performed in the absence of a maintenance contract, including training revenue, is recognized when the related services are performed. The Company also sells spare parts, revenue from which is recognized when control over the spare parts is transferred to the customer.
Installation services include connecting and validating configuration of the product. In addition, several testing protocols are completed to confirm the equipment is performing to customer specifications. Revenue from product installation are deferred and recognized at a point in time, once installation is complete.
Significant Judgments
Although the products are generally not sold with a right of return, the Company may provide other credits or sales incentives, which are accounted for either as variable consideration or material right, depending on the specific terms and conditions of the arrangement. These credits and incentives are estimated at contract inception and updated at the end of each reporting period if and when additional information becomes available.
As outlined above, the Company uses judgment to evaluate whether or not the customer has obtained control of the product and considers the several indicators in evaluating whether or not control has transferred to the customer. Not all of the indicators need to be met for the Company to conclude that control has transferred to the customer.
The timing of revenue recognition, billings and cash collections may result in accounts receivable, contract assets, and contract liabilities (deferred revenue) on the Company’s condensed consolidated balance sheet. A receivable is recorded in the period the Company delivers products or provides services when the Company has an unconditional right to payment. Contract assets primarily relate to the value of products and services transferred to the customer for which the right to payment is not just dependent on the passage of time. Contract assets are transferred to receivable when rights to payment become unconditional. 
A contract liability is recognized when the Company receives payment or has an unconditional right to payment in advance of the satisfaction of performance. The contract liabilities represent (1) Deferred product revenue relates to the value of products that have been shipped and billed to customers and for which the control has not been transferred to the customers, and (2) Deferred service revenue, which is recorded when the Company receives consideration, or such consideration is unconditionally due, from a customer prior to transferring services to the customer under the terms of a sales contract. Deferred service revenue typically results from warranty services, and maintenance and other service contracts. 
Contract assets and liabilities related to rights and obligations in a contract are recorded net in the condensed consolidated balance sheets. Upon the adoption of ASC 606, deferred costs of revenue is included in other current assets while under the legacy guidance deferred costs of revenue was included in deferred system profit. 
New Revenue Accounting Standard
•An increase in retained earnings of approximately $26.0 million as a result of a change in the timing of transfer of control over products to the customers. Revenue under ASC 606 is expected to be recognized earlier than it would have been under legacy guidance primarily due to the Company’s assessment of timing of transfer of control. 
Revenue recognized under ASC 606 is higher than it would have been under legacy guidance. This is primarily driven by the changes related to the accounting of standard warranty and our assessment of transfer of control.
 Under ASC 606, revenue is recognized earlier than it would have been recognized under legacy guidance primarily due to the Company's assessment of timing of transfer of control. Additionally, the Company renders standard warranty coverage on its products for 12 months, providing labor and parts necessary to repair and maintain the products during the warranty period. Prior to adoption of ASC 606, the Company accounted for the estimated warranty cost as a charge to costs of sales when revenue was recognized. Upon adoption of ASC 606, the standard warranty for the majority of products is recognized as a separate performance obligation. 
The Company’s payment terms and conditions vary by contract type, although terms generally include a requirement of payment of 70% to 90% of total contract consideration within 30 to 60 days of shipment, with the remainder payable within 30 days of acceptance. In instances where the timing of revenue recognition differs from the timing of invoicing, the Company has determined that its contracts generally do not include a significant financing component. 
The change in contract assets during the three months ended September 30, 2018 is mainly due to $13.7 million of revenue recognized in excess of the amounts billed to the customers, partially offset by $13.0 million of contract assets reclassified to accounts receivable as the Company’s right to consideration for these contract assets became unconditional. Contract assets are included in Other current assets on the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheet. 
During the three months ended September 30, 2018, the Company recognized revenue of $279.0 million that was included in contract liabilities as of July 1, 2018. This was partially offset by the value of products and services billed to customers for which control of the products and service has not transferred to the customers. Contract liabilities are included in current and non-current liabilities on the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheets.
As of September 30, 2018, the Company had $1.41 billion of remaining performance obligations, which represents the Company’s obligation to deliver products and services, and consists primarily of sales orders where written customer requests have been received. The Company expects to recognize approximately 5% to 15% of these performance obligations as revenue beyond the next twelve months, subject to risk of delays, pushouts, and cancellation by the customer, usually with limited or no penalties.
Refer to Note 17 “Segment Reporting and Geographic Information” for further information, including revenue by geographic region as well as significant product and service offering. 
•The Company accounts for shipping and handling costs as activities to fulfill the promise to transfer the goods, instead of a promised service to its customer.
•The Company has elected to not adjust the promised amount of consideration for the effects of a significant financing component as the Company expects, at contract inception, that the period between when the entity transfers a promised good or service to a customer and when the customer pays for that good or service will generally be one year or less.
•The Company has elected to adopt the practical expedient for contract modifications, specifically to reflect the aggregate effect of all modifications that occur before July 1, 2018 in determining the transaction price, identifying the satisfied and unsatisfied performance obligations, and allocating the transaction price to the performance obligations. 
The Company’s financial assets and liabilities are measured and recorded at fair value, except for its debt and certain equity investments in privately-held companies. Prior to July 1, 2018, the equity investments were generally accounted for under the cost method of accounting and were periodically assessed for other-than-temporary impairment when an event or circumstance indicated that an other-than-temporary decline in value may have occurred. Effective July 1, 2018, equity investments without a readily available fair value are accounted for using the measurement alternative. The measurement alternative is calculated as cost minus impairment, if any, plus or minus changes resulting from observable price changes. 
The Company’s non-financial assets, such as goodwill, intangible assets, and land, property and equipment, are recorded at cost and are assessed for impairment when an event or circumstance indicates that an other-than-temporary decline in value may have occurred.
Level 2 Valuations based on quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, quoted prices in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.
Level 3 Valuations based on inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities.
A financial instrument’s level within the fair value hierarchy is based on the lowest level of any input that is significant to the fair value measurement.
The principal market in which the Company executes its foreign currency contracts is the institutional market in an over-the-counter environment with a relatively high level of price transparency. The market participants generally are large financial institutions. The Company’s foreign currency contracts’ valuation inputs are based on quoted prices and quoted pricing intervals from public data sources and do not involve management judgment. These contracts are typically classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.
The fair value of contingent consideration payable, which relates to the acquisitions of privately-held companies, was classified as Level 3 and estimated using significant inputs that were not observable in the market.
There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements during the three months ended September 30, 2018. The Company generally did not have any assets or liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis within Level 3 fair value measurements as of June 30, 2018.
Consolidated Balance Sheets
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)
The amounts reclassified out of accumulated OCI related to the Company’s defined benefit pension plans, which were recognized as a component of net periodic cost for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 were $0.2 million, respectively. For additional details, refer to Note 11, “Employee Benefit Plans” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018.
Actual maturities may differ from contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to call or prepay obligations with or without call or prepayment penalties. Realized gains and losses on available-for-sale securities for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 were immaterial.
During the three months ended September 30, 2018, the Company acquired certain assets and assumed certain liabilities of a privately-held company for a total purchase consideration of $4.1 million, which includes a promise to pay an additional consideration of up to $1.5 million contingent on the achievement of certain milestones. As of September 30, 2018, the estimated fair value of the additional consideration was $1.5 million, which is classified as a current liability on the condensed consolidated balance sheet.
On July 11, 2018, the Company acquired the outstanding shares of a privately-held company for a total purchase consideration of $11.3 million, including the fair value of the promise to pay an additional consideration of up to $4.5 million contingent on the achievement of certain revenue milestones. As of September 30, 2018, the estimated fair value of the additional consideration was $1.6 million, which is classified as a current liability on the condensed consolidated balance sheet.
The Company has included the financial results of the acquisitions completed during the first quarter of the fiscal year 2019 in its condensed consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition. These results were not individually or in aggregate material to our condensed consolidated financial statements.
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018, the Company acquired a product line from Keysight Technologies, Inc., a related party, for a total purchase consideration of $12.1 million, of which $5.2 million was allocated to goodwill based on the fair value at the acquisition date. Goodwill recognized was deductible for income tax purposes. For additional details, refer to Note 8 “Business Combinations,” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018. 
The acquired goodwill during the three months ended September 30, 2018 resulted primarily from the acquisition of certain assets and liabilities of privately-held companies. See Note 6 “Business Combinations” for additional details.
As of September 30, 2018, there have been no significant events or circumstances affecting the valuation of goodwill subsequent to the qualitative assessment performed in the third quarter of the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018. For additional details, refer to Note 6 “Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Assets,” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018. The next annual assessment of goodwill by reporting unit is scheduled to be performed in the third quarter of the fiscal year ending June 30, 2019.
Purchased Intangible Assets
Purchased intangible assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or asset group may not be recoverable.
As of September 30, 2018, future principal payments for the long-term debt are $250.0 million in fiscal year 2020; $500.0 million in fiscal year 2022; and $1.50 billion after fiscal year 2023.
In November 2014, the Company issued $2.50 billion aggregate principal amount of senior, unsecured long-term notes (collectively referred to as “Senior Notes”). The Company issued the Senior Notes as part of the leveraged recapitalization plan under which the proceeds from the Senior Notes in conjunction with the proceeds from the term loans and cash on hand were used (x) to fund a special cash dividend of $16.50 per share, aggregating to approximately $2.76 billion, (y) to redeem $750.0 million of Senior Notes, including associated redemption premiums, accrued interest and other fees and expenses and (z) for other general corporate purposes, including repurchases of shares pursuant to the Company’s stock repurchase program. 
The original discount on the Senior Notes amounted to $4.0 million and is being amortized over the life of the debt. Interest is payable semi-annually on May 1 and November 1 of each year. The debt indenture (the “Indenture”) includes covenants that limit the Company’s ability to grant liens on its facilities and enter into sale and leaseback transactions, subject to certain allowances under which certain sale and leaseback transactions are not restricted. 
Based on the trading prices of the Senior Notes on the applicable dates, the fair value of the Senior Notes as of September 30, 2018 and June 30, 2018 was approximately $2.31 billion and $2.33 billion, respectively. While the Senior Notes are recorded at cost, the fair value of the long-term debt was determined based on quoted prices in markets that are not active; accordingly, the long-term debt is categorized as Level 2 for purposes of the fair value measurement hierarchy.
In November 2017, the Company entered into a Credit Agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) providing for a $750.0 million five-year unsecured Revolving Credit Facility (the “Revolving Credit Facility”), which replaced its prior Credit Facility. Subject to the terms of the Credit Agreement, the Revolving Credit Facility may be increased in an amount up to $250.0 million in the aggregate. 
The Company may borrow, repay and reborrow funds under the Revolving Credit Facility until its maturity on November 30, 2022 (the “Maturity Date”), at which time such Revolving Credit Facility will terminate, and all outstanding loans under such facility, together with all accrued and unpaid interest, must be repaid. The Company may prepay outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility at any time without a prepayment penalty.
The Revolving Credit Facility requires the Company to maintain an interest expense coverage ratio as described in the Credit Agreement, on a quarterly basis, covering the trailing four consecutive fiscal quarters of no less than 3.50 to 1.00. In addition, the Company is required to maintain the maximum leverage ratio as described in the Credit Agreement, on a quarterly basis of 3.00 to 1.00, covering the trailing four consecutive fiscal quarters for each fiscal quarter, which can be increased to 4.00 to 1.00 for a period of time in connection with a material acquisition or a series of material acquisitions.
For details of the 2004 Plan and the Outside Director Plan, refer to Note 8 “Equity and Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plans,” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018. 
The fair value of stock-based awards is measured at the grant date and is recognized as an expense over the employee’s requisite service period. For restricted stock units granted without “dividend equivalent” rights, fair value is calculated using the closing price of the Company’s common stock on the grant date, adjusted to exclude the present value of dividends which are not accrued on those restricted stock units. The fair value for restricted stock units granted with “dividend equivalent” rights is determined using the closing price of the Company’s common stock on the grant date. As of September 30, 2018, the Company accrued $4.8 million of dividends payable, which included both a special cash dividend and regular quarterly cash dividends for the unvested restricted stock units outstanding as of the dividend record date. The fair value for purchase rights under the Company’s Employee Stock Purchase Plan is determined using a Black-Scholes model.
As of September 30, 2018, the unrecognized stock-based compensation expense balance related to restricted stock units was $128.4 million, excluding the impact of estimated forfeitures, and will be recognized over a weighted-average remaining contractual term and an estimated weighted-average amortization period of 1.7 years. The intrinsic value of outstanding restricted stock units as of September 30, 2018 was $179.2 million.
Employee Stock Purchase Plan
KLA-Tencor’s Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“ESPP”) provides, effective January 2, 2018, that eligible employees may contribute up to 15% of their eligible earnings toward the semi-annual purchase of KLA-Tencor’s common stock. Prior to January 2, 2018, eligible employees could contribute up to 10% of their eligible earnings. The ESPP is qualified under Section 423 of the Internal Revenue Code. The employee’s purchase price is derived from a formula based on the closing price of the common stock on the first day of the offering period versus the closing price on the date of purchase (or, if not a trading day, on the immediately preceding trading day).
The offering period (or length of the look-back period) under the ESPP has a duration of six months, and the purchase price with respect to each offering period beginning on or after such date is, until otherwise amended, equal to 85% of the lesser of (i) the fair market value of the Company’s common stock at the commencement of the applicable six-month offering period or (ii) the fair market value of the Company’s common stock on the purchase date. The Company estimates the fair value of purchase rights under the ESPP using a Black-Scholes model. 
The ESPP shares are replenished annually on the first day of each fiscal year by virtue of an evergreen provision. The provision allows for share replenishment equal to the lesser of 2.0 million shares or the number of shares which KLA-Tencor estimates will be required to be issued under the ESPP during the forthcoming fiscal year. As of September 30, 2018, a total of 2.0 million shares were reserved and available for issuance under the ESPP.
Quarterly cash dividends
On August 2, 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.75 per share on the outstanding shares of the Company’s common stock, which was paid on August 31, 2018 to the stockholders of record as of the close of business on August 15, 2018. The total amount of regular quarterly cash dividends and dividend equivalents paid by the Company during the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 was $119.9 million and $94.1 million, respectively. The amount of accrued dividends payable for regular quarterly cash dividends on unvested restricted stock units with dividend equivalent rights as of September 30, 2018 and June 30, 2018 was $4.8 million and $6.7 million, respectively. These accrued cash dividends will be paid upon vesting of the underlying restricted stock units.
On November 19, 2014, the Company’s Board of Directors declared a special cash dividend of $16.50 per share on our outstanding common stock, which was paid on December 9, 2014 to the stockholders of record as of the close of business on December 1, 2014. The declaration and payment of the special cash dividend was part of the Company’s leveraged recapitalization transaction under which the special cash dividend was financed through a combination of existing cash and proceeds from the debt financing disclosed in Note 8 “Debt” that was completed during the three months ended December 31, 2014. As of the declaration date, the total amount of the special cash dividend accrued by the Company was approximately $2.76 billion, substantially all of which was paid out during the three months ended December 31, 2014, except for the aggregate special cash dividend of $43.0 million that was accrued for the unvested restricted stock units. As of September 30, 2018 and June 30, 2018, the Company had a total of $37.5 thousand and $2.8 million, respectively, of accrued dividends payable for the special cash dividend with respect to outstanding unvested restricted stock units, which will be paid when such underlying unvested restricted stock units vest. During the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, the total special cash dividends paid with respect to vested restricted stock units were $2.8 million and $6.2 million, respectively. 
The Company’s Board of Directors has authorized a program which permits the Company to repurchase up to $1.00 billion of its common stock, or up to $2.00 billion if the Orbotech Merger closes. The intent of this program is to offset the dilution from KLA-Tencor’s equity incentive plans, employee stock purchase plan, the issuance of shares in the merger involving Orbotech, as well as to return excess cash to the Company’s stockholders. Subject to market conditions, applicable legal requirements and other factors, the repurchases were made in the open market in compliance with applicable securities laws, including the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules promulgated thereunder, such as Rule 10b-18 and Rule 10b5-1. This stock repurchase program has no expiration date and may be suspended at any time. As of September 30, 2018, an aggregate of approximately $654.1 million was available for repurchase under the Company’s repurchase program. 
As of September 30, 2018, the Company had repurchased 0.1 million shares for $7.8 million, which repurchases had not settled prior to September 30, 2018. The amount was recorded as a component of other current liabilities for the period presented.
Basic net income per share is calculated by dividing net income available to common stockholders by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted net income per share is calculated by using the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period, increased to include the number of additional shares of common stock that would have been outstanding if the shares of common stock underlying the Company’s outstanding dilutive restricted stock units had been issued. The dilutive effect of outstanding restricted stock units is reflected in diluted net income per share by application of the treasury stock method. 
The Act also includes provisions for GILTI wherein taxes on foreign income are imposed in excess of a deemed return on tangible assets of foreign corporations. This income will effectively be taxed at a 10.5% tax rate in general. As a result, the Company’s deferred tax assets and liabilities were being evaluated if the deferred tax assets and liabilities should be recognized for the basis differences expected to reverse as a result of GILTI provisions that are effective for the Company after the fiscal year ending June 30, 2018, or should the tax on GILTI provisions be recognized in the period the Act was signed into law. The Company has elected to account for GILTI as a component of current period tax expense for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2019.
In the normal course of business, the Company is subject to examination by tax authorities throughout the world. The Company is subject to United States federal income tax examination for all years beginning from the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015. The Company is subject to state income tax examinations for all years beginning from the fiscal year ended June 30, 2014. The Company is also subject to examinations in other major foreign jurisdictions, including Singapore, for all years beginning from the fiscal year ended June 30, 2014.
Factoring. KLA-Tencor has agreements (referred to as “factoring agreements”) with financial institutions to sell certain of its trade receivables and promissory notes from customers without recourse. The Company does not believe it is at risk for any material losses as a result of these agreements. In addition, the Company periodically sells certain letters of credit (“LCs”), without recourse, received from customers in payment for goods and services.
Purchase Commitments. KLA-Tencor maintains commitments to purchase inventory from its suppliers as well as goods and services in the ordinary course of business. The Company’s liability under these purchase commitments is generally restricted to a forecasted time-horizon as mutually agreed upon between the parties. This forecasted time-horizon can vary among different suppliers. The Company’s estimate of its significant purchase commitments is approximately $476.6 million as of September 30, 2018, which are primarily due within the next 12 months. Actual expenditures will vary based upon the volume of the transactions and length of contractual service provided. In addition, the amounts paid under these arrangements may be less in the event that the arrangements are renegotiated or canceled. Certain agreements provide for potential cancellation penalties.
Guarantees and Contingencies. The Company maintains guarantee arrangements available through various financial institutions for up to $22.0 million, of which $15.5 million had been issued as of September 30, 2018, primarily to fund guarantees to customs authorities for value-added tax (“VAT”) and other operating requirements of the Company’s subsidiaries in Europe and Asia.
KLA-Tencor is a party to a variety of agreements pursuant to which it may be obligated to indemnify the other party with respect to certain matters. Typically, these obligations arise in connection with contracts and license agreements or the sale of assets, under which the Company customarily agrees to hold the other party harmless against losses arising from, or provides customers with other remedies to protect against, bodily injury or damage to personal property caused by the Company’s products, non-compliance with the Company’s product performance specifications, infringement by the Company’s products of third-party intellectual property rights and a breach of warranties, representations and covenants related to matters such as title to assets sold, validity of certain intellectual property rights, non-infringement of third-party rights, and certain income tax-related matters. In each of these circumstances, payment by the Company is typically subject to the other party making a claim to and cooperating with the Company pursuant to the procedures specified in the particular contract. 
Subject to certain limitations, the Company is obligated to indemnify its current and former directors, officers and employees with respect to certain litigation matters and investigations that arise in connection with their service to the Company. These obligations arise under the terms of the Company’s certificate of incorporation, its bylaws, applicable contracts, and Delaware and California law. The obligation to indemnify generally means that the Company is required to pay or reimburse the individuals’ reasonable legal expenses and possibly damages and other liabilities incurred in connection with these matters.
In addition, the Company may in limited circumstances enter into agreements that contain customer-specific commitments on pricing, tool reliability, spare parts stocking levels, response time and other commitments. Furthermore, the Company may give these customers limited audit or inspection rights to enable them to confirm that the Company is complying with these commitments. If a customer elects to exercise its audit or inspection rights, the Company may be required to expend significant resources to support the audit or inspection, as well as to defend or settle any dispute with a customer that could potentially arise out of such audit or inspection. To date, the Company has made no significant accruals in its condensed consolidated financial statements for this contingency. While the Company has not in the past incurred significant expenses for resolving disputes regarding these types of commitments, the Company cannot make any assurance that it will not incur any such liabilities in the future.
It is not possible to predict the maximum potential amount of future payments under these or similar agreements due to the conditional nature of the Company’s obligations and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Historically, payments made by the Company under these agreements have not had a material effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
The authoritative guidance requires companies to recognize all derivative instruments and hedging activities, including foreign currency exchange contracts and interest rate lock agreements, as either assets or liabilities at fair value on the balance sheet. Changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge treatment, as well as the ineffective portion of any hedges, are recognized in other expense (income), net in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. In accordance with the guidance, the Company designates foreign currency exchange contracts and interest rate lock agreements as cash flow hedges of certain forecasted foreign currency denominated sales and purchase transactions, and the benchmark interest rate of the intended debt financing, respectively.
KLA-Tencor’s foreign subsidiaries operate and sell KLA-Tencor’s products in various global markets. As a result, KLA-Tencor is exposed to risks relating to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. KLA-Tencor utilizes foreign currency forward exchange contracts and option contracts to hedge against future movements in foreign exchange rates that affect certain existing and forecasted foreign currency denominated sales and purchase transactions, such as the Japanese yen, the euro, the New Taiwan dollar and the Israeli new shekel. The Company routinely hedges its exposures to certain foreign currencies with various financial institutions in an effort to minimize the impact of certain currency exchange rate fluctuations. These currency forward exchange contracts and options, designated as cash flow hedges, generally have maturities of less than 18 months. Cash flow hedges are evaluated for effectiveness monthly, based on changes in total fair value of the derivatives. If a financial counterparty to any of the Company’s hedging arrangements experiences financial difficulties or is otherwise unable to honor the terms of the foreign currency hedge, the Company may experience material losses.
For derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the gains or losses on the derivative is reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (“OCI”) and reclassified into earnings in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. Changes in the fair value of currency forward exchange and option contracts due to changes in time value are excluded from the assessment of effectiveness. Gains and losses on the derivative representing either hedge ineffectiveness or hedge components excluded from the assessment of effectiveness are recognized in current earnings.
For derivative instruments that are not designated as accounting hedges, gains and losses are recognized in other expense (income), net. The Company uses foreign currency forward contracts to hedge certain foreign currency denominated assets or liabilities. The gains and losses on these derivatives are largely offset by the changes in the fair value of the assets or liabilities being hedged.
In October 2014, the Company entered into a series of forward contracts (“Rate Lock Agreements”) to lock the benchmark rate on a portion of the Senior Notes. The Rate Lock Agreements had a notional amount of $1.00 billion in aggregate which matured in the second quarter of the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015. The Rate Lock Agreements were terminated on the date of pricing of the $1.25 billion of 4.650% Senior Notes due in 2024 and the Company recorded the fair value of $7.5 million as a gain within accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) as of December 31, 2014. The Company recognized $0.2 million for each of the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 for the amortization of the gain recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), which amount reduced the interest expense. As of September 30, 2018, the unamortized portion of the fair value of the forward contracts for the Rate Lock Agreements was $4.6 million. 
Offsetting of Derivative Assets and Liabilities
The Company’s receivable balance from these parties were $0.2 million as of September 30, 2018 and immaterial as of June 30, 2018. The Company’s payable balance from these parties were immaterial as of September 30, 2018 and June 30, 2018. 
While KLA-Tencor operates its business in multiple operating segments, the Company has only one reportable segment. Operating segments are defined as components of an enterprise about which separate financial information is evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision maker in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance. KLA-Tencor’s chief operating decision maker is its Chief Executive Officer. 
All operating segments have been aggregated due to their inter-dependencies, commonality of long-term economic characteristics, products and services, the production processes, class of customer and distribution processes. The Company’s service products are an extension of the system product portfolio and provide customers with spare parts and fab management services (including system preventive maintenance and optimization services) to improve yield, increase production uptime and throughput, and lower the cost of ownership. Since the Company operates in one reportable segment, all financial segment information required by the authoritative guidance can be found in the condensed consolidated financial statements.
The Company’s significant operations outside the United States include manufacturing facilities in China, Germany, Israel and Singapore and sales, marketing and service offices in Japan, the rest of the Asia Pacific region and Europe. For geographical revenue reporting, revenues are attributed to the geographic location in which the customer is located. Long-lived assets consist of land, property and equipment, net and are attributed to the geographic region in which they are located.
In the three months ended September 30, 2018, two customers accounted for approximately 15% and 10% of total revenues. In the three months ended September 30, 2017, one customer accounted for approximately 28% of total revenues. One customer and three customers on an individual basis accounted for greater than 10% of net accounts receivables as of September 30, 2018 and June 30, 2018, respectively. 
The information set forth above under Note 12, “Litigation and Other Legal Matters,” to the condensed consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of Part 1 is incorporated herein by reference.
Risks Associated with Our Industry 
Ongoing changes in the technology industry, as well as the semiconductor industry in particular, could expose our business to significant risks.
•the increasing cost of building and operating fabrication facilities and the impact of such increases on our customers’ investment decisions; 
•differing market growth rates and capital requirements for different applications, such as memory, logic and foundry; 
•lower level of process control adoption by our memory customers compared to our foundry and logic customers;
•the emergence of disruptive technologies that change the prevailing semiconductor manufacturing processes (or the economics associated with semiconductor manufacturing) and, as a result, also impact the inspection and metrology requirements associated with such processes; 
•the possible introduction of integrated products by our larger competitors that offer inspection and metrology functionality in addition to managing other semiconductor manufacturing processes;
•the bifurcation of the semiconductor manufacturing industry into (a) leading edge manufacturers driving continued research and development into next-generation products and technologies and (b) other manufacturers that are content with existing (including previous generation) products and technologies;
•the ever escalating cost of next-generation product development, which may result in joint development programs between us and our customers or government entities to help fund such programs that could restrict our control of, ownership of and profitability from the products and technologies developed through those programs; and
•the entry by some semiconductor manufacturers into collaboration or sharing arrangements for capacity, cost or risk with other manufacturers, as well as increased outsourcing of their manufacturing activities, and greater focus only on specific markets or applications, whether in response to adverse market conditions or other market pressures. 
We are exposed to risks associated with a highly concentrated customer base.
•Certain customers have undergone significant ownership changes, created alliances with other companies, experienced management changes or have outsourced manufacturing activities, any of which may result in additional complexities in managing customer relationships and transactions. Any future change in ownership or management of our existing customers may result in similar challenges, including the possibility of the successor entity or new management deciding to select a competitor’s products.
•Semiconductor manufacturers generally must commit significant resources to qualify, install and integrate process control and yield management equipment into a semiconductor production line. We believe that once a semiconductor manufacturer selects a particular supplier’s process control and yield management equipment, the manufacturer generally relies upon that equipment for that specific production line application for an extended period of time. Accordingly, we expect it to be more difficult to sell our products to a given customer for that specific production line application and other similar production line applications if that customer initially selects a competitor’s equipment. Similarly, we expect it to be challenging for a competitor to sell its products to a given customer for a specific production line application if that customer initially selects our equipment.
Risks Related to Our Business Model and Capital Structure
In addition, the complexity of our products exposes us to other risks. We regularly recognize revenue from a sale upon shipment of the applicable product to the customer (even before receiving the customer’s formal acceptance of that product) in certain situations, including sales of products for which installation is considered perfunctory, transactions in which the product is sold to an independent distributor and we have no installation obligations, and sales of products where we have previously delivered the same product to the same customer location and that prior delivery has been accepted. However, our products are very technologically complex and rely on the interconnection of numerous subcomponents (all of which must perform to their respective specifications), so it is conceivable that a product for which we recognize revenue upon shipment may ultimately fail to meet the overall product’s required specifications. In such a situation, the customer may be entitled to certain remedies, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results for various periods and, as a result, our stock price.
While patent, copyright and trademark protection for our intellectual property is important, we believe our future success in highly dynamic markets is most dependent upon the technical competence and creative skills of our personnel. We attempt to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information through confidentiality and other agreements with our customers, suppliers, employees and consultants and through other security measures. We also maintain exclusive and non-exclusive licenses with third parties for strategic technology used in certain products. However, these employees, consultants and third parties may breach these agreements, and we may not have adequate remedies for wrongdoing. In addition, the laws of certain territories in which we develop, manufacture or sell our products may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. In any event, the extent to which we can protect our trade secrets through the use of confidentiality agreements is limited, and our success will depend to a significant extent on our ability to innovate ahead of our competitors.
Our industry includes large manufacturers with substantial resources to support customers worldwide. Some of our competitors are diversified companies with greater financial resources and more extensive research, engineering, manufacturing, marketing, and customer service and support capabilities than we possess. We face competition from companies whose strategy is to provide a broad array of products and services, some of which compete with the products and services that we offer. These competitors may bundle their products in a manner that may discourage customers from purchasing our products, including pricing such competitive tools significantly below our product offerings. In addition, we face competition from smaller emerging semiconductor equipment companies whose strategy is to provide a portion of the products and services that we offer, using innovative technology to sell products into specialized markets. The strength of our competitive positions in many of our existing markets is largely due to our leading technology, which is the result of continuing significant investments in product research and development. However, we may enter new markets, whether through acquisitions or new internal product development, in which competition is based primarily on product pricing, not technological superiority. Further, some new growth markets that emerge may not require leading technologies. Loss of competitive position in any of the markets we serve, or an inability to sell our products on favorable commercial terms in new markets we may enter, could negatively affect our prices, customer orders, revenues, gross margins and market share, any of which would negatively affect our operating results and financial condition.
Our capital structure is highly leveraged.
Borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility bear interest at a floating rate, and an increase in interest rates would require us to pay additional interest on any borrowings, which may have an adverse effect on the value and liquidity of our debt and the market price of our common stock could decline. The interest rate under our Revolving Credit Facility is also subject to an adjustment in conjunction with our credit rating downgrades or upgrades. Additionally, under our Revolving Credit Facility, we are required to comply with affirmative and negative covenants, which include the maintenance of certain financial ratios, the details of which can be found in Note 7, “Debt,” to our condensed consolidated financial statements. If we fail to comply with these covenants, we will be in default and our borrowings will become immediately due and payable. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient financial resources or we will be able to arrange financing to repay our borrowings at such time. In addition, certain of our domestic subsidiaries are required to guarantee our borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility. In the event that we default on our borrowings, these domestic subsidiaries shall be liable for our borrowings, which could disrupt our operations and result in a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or stock price.
•a negative impact on our ability to satisfy our future obligations;
•an increase in the portion of our cash flows that may have to be dedicated to increased interest and principal payments that may not be available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments, dividends, stock repurchases, general corporate or other purposes; 
•an impairment of our ability to obtain additional financing in the future; and
•obligations to comply with restrictive and financial covenants as noted in the above risk factor and Note 7, “Debt,” to our condensed consolidated financial statements. 
Our ability to satisfy our future expenses as well as our new debt obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory and other factors. Furthermore, our future operations may not generate sufficient cash flows to enable us to meet our future expenses and service our new debt obligations, which may impact our ability to manage our capital structure to preserve and maintain our investment grade rating. If our future operations do not generate sufficient cash flows, we may need to access the unfunded portion of our Revolving Credit Facility of $750.0 million or enter into new financing arrangements to obtain necessary funds. If we determine it is necessary to seek additional funding for any reason, we may not be able to obtain such funding or, if funding is available, we may not be able to obtain it on acceptable terms. Any additional borrowing under our Revolving Credit Facility will place further pressure on us to comply with the financial covenants. If we fail to make a payment associated with our debt obligations, we could be in default on such debt, and such a default could cause us to be in default on our other obligations. 
There can be no assurance that we will continue to declare cash dividends at all or in any particular amounts.
We are exposed to risks related to our commercial terms and conditions, including our indemnification of third parties, as well as the performance of our products.
In addition, we may in limited circumstances enter into agreements that contain customer-specific commitments on pricing, tool reliability, spare parts stocking levels, response time and other commitments. Furthermore, we may give these customers limited audit or inspection rights to enable them to confirm that we are complying with these commitments. If a customer elects to exercise its audit or inspection rights, we may be required to expend significant resources to support the audit or inspection, as well as to defend or settle any dispute with a customer that could potentially arise out of such audit or inspection. To date, we have made no significant accruals in our condensed consolidated financial statements for this contingency. While we have not in the past incurred significant expenses for resolving disputes regarding these types of commitments, we cannot make any assurance that we will not incur any such liabilities in the future. Our business, financial condition and results of operations in a reported fiscal period could be materially and adversely affected if we expend significant amounts in supporting an audit or inspection, or defending or settling any purported claims, regardless of their merit or outcomes.
There are risks associated with our receipt of government funding for research and development.
We are exposed to additional risks related to our receipt of external funding for certain strategic development programs from various governments and government agencies, both domestically and internationally. Governments and government agencies typically have the right to terminate funding programs at any time in their sole discretion, or a project may be terminated by mutual agreement if the parties determine that the project’s goals or milestones are not being achieved, so there is no assurance that these sources of external funding will continue to be available to us in the future. In addition, under the terms of these government grants, the applicable granting agency typically has the right to audit the costs that we incur, directly and indirectly, in connection with such programs. Any such audit could result in modifications to, or even termination of, the applicable government funding program. For example, if an audit were to identify any costs as being improperly allocated to the applicable program, those costs would not be reimbursed, and any such costs that had already been reimbursed would have to be refunded. We do not know the outcome of any future audits. Any adverse finding resulting from any such audit could lead to penalties (financial or otherwise), termination of funding programs, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from receiving future government funding from the applicable government or government agency, any of which could adversely impact our operating results, financial condition and ability to operate our business.
In the past, we recorded a material charge related to the impairment of our goodwill and purchased intangible assets. Goodwill represents the excess of costs over the net fair value of net assets acquired in a business combination. Goodwill is not amortized, but is instead tested for impairment at least annually in accordance with authoritative guidance for goodwill. Purchased intangible assets with estimable useful lives are amortized over their respective estimated useful lives based on economic benefit if known or using the straight-line method, and are reviewed for impairment in accordance with authoritative guidance for long-lived assets. The valuation of goodwill and intangible assets requires assumptions and estimates of many critical factors, including revenue and market growth, operating cash flows, market multiples, and discount rates. A substantial decline in our stock price, or any other adverse change in market conditions, particularly if such change has the effect of changing one of the critical assumptions or estimates we previously used to calculate the value of our goodwill or intangible assets (and, as applicable, the amount of any previous impairment charge), could result in a change to the estimation of fair value that could result in an additional impairment charge.
We are exposed to risks related to our financial arrangements with respect to receivables factoring and banking arrangements.
We are subject to the risks of additional government actions in the event we were to breach the terms of any settlement arrangement into which we have entered.
General Commercial, Operational, Financial and Regulatory Risks
•exposure to the unique characteristics of each region in the global semiconductor market, which can cause capital equipment investment patterns to vary significantly from period to period;
•periodic local or international economic downturns;
•compliance with customs regulations in the countries in which we do business;
•tariffs or other trade barriers (including those applied to our products or to parts and supplies that we purchase);
•political instability, natural disasters, legal or regulatory changes, acts of war or terrorism in regions where we have operations or where we do business;
•longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable outside of the United States;
•difficulties in managing foreign distributors (including monitoring and ensuring our distributors’ compliance with applicable laws); and
•inadequate protection or enforcement of our intellectual property and other legal rights in foreign jurisdictions.
In addition, government controls, either by the United States or other countries, that restrict our business overseas or the import or export of semiconductor products or increase the cost of our operations through the imposition of tariffs or otherwise, could harm our business. For example, effective on October 30, 2018, the United States Department of Commerce added Fujian Jinhua Integrated Circuit Company, Ltd. (“JHICC”) to its entity list, restricting exports of technology to JHICC without a license. As a result, unless JHICC is subsequently removed from the entity list, we will be unable to fulfill orders JHICC has made for our products, accept future orders placed by JHICC for our products, and provide services for any of our products already installed at JHICC.
We are exposed to various risks related to the legal, regulatory and tax environments in which we perform our operations and conduct our business.
Our employees are vital to our success, and our key management, engineering and other employees are difficult to replace. We generally do not have employment contracts with our key employees. Further, we do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our employees. The expansion of high technology companies worldwide has increased demand and competition for qualified personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, or if we are not able to attract, assimilate and retain additional highly qualified employees to meet our current and future needs, our business and operations could be harmed.
We outsource a number of services to third-party service providers, which decreases our control over the performance of these functions. Disruptions or delays at our third-party service providers could adversely impact our operations.
We outsource a number of services, including our transportation, information systems management and logistics management of spare parts and certain accounting and procurement functions, to domestic and overseas third-party service providers. While outsourcing arrangements may lower our cost of operations, they also reduce our direct control over the services rendered. It is uncertain what effect such diminished control will have on the quality or quantity of products delivered or services rendered, on our ability to quickly respond to changing market conditions, or on our ability to ensure compliance with all applicable domestic and foreign laws and regulations. In addition, many of these outsourced service providers, including certain hosted software applications that we use for confidential data storage, employ cloud computing technology for such storage. These providers’ cloud computing systems may be susceptible to “cyber incidents,” such as intentional cyber attacks aimed at theft of sensitive data or inadvertent cyber-security compromises, which are outside of our control. If we do not effectively develop and manage our outsourcing strategies, if required export and other governmental approvals are not timely obtained, if our third-party service providers do not perform as anticipated, or do not adequately protect our data from cyber-related security breaches, or if there are delays or difficulties in enhancing business processes, we may experience operational difficulties (such as limitations on our ability to ship products), increased costs, manufacturing or service interruptions or delays, loss of intellectual property rights or other sensitive data, quality and compliance issues, and challenges in managing our product inventory or recording and reporting financial and management information, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.
We are exposed to risks related to cybersecurity threats and cyber incidents.
In the conduct of our business, we collect, use, transmit and store data on information systems. This data includes confidential information, transactional information and intellectual property belonging to us, our customers and our business partners, as well as personally-identifiable information of individuals. We allocate significant resources to network security, data encryption and other measures to protect our information systems and data from unauthorized access or misuse. Despite our ongoing efforts to enhance our network security measures, our information systems are susceptible to computer viruses, cyber-related security breaches and similar disruptions from unauthorized intrusions, tampering, misuse, criminal acts, including phishing, or other events or developments that we may be unable to anticipate or fail to mitigate and are subject to the inherent vulnerabilities of network security measures. We have experienced cyber-related attacks in the past, and may experience cyber-related attacks in the future. Our security measures may also be breached due to employee errors, malfeasance, or otherwise. Third parties may also attempt to influence employees, users, suppliers or customers to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our, our customers’ or business partners’ data. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to the information systems change frequently, and may not be recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures.
We carry insurance that provides some protection against the potential losses arising from a cybersecurity incident but it will not likely cover all such losses, and the losses that it does not cover may be significant.
We rely upon certain critical information systems for our daily business operations. Our inability to use or access our information systems at critical points in time could unfavorably impact our business operations.
Our global operations are dependent upon certain information systems, including telecommunications, the internet, our corporate intranet, network communications, email and various computer hardware and software applications. System failures or malfunctioning, such as difficulties with our customer relationship management (“CRM”) system, could disrupt our operations and our ability to timely and accurately process and report key components of our financial results. Our enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) system is integral to our ability to accurately and efficiently maintain our books and records, record transactions, provide critical information to our management, and prepare our financial statements. Any disruptions or difficulties that may occur in connection with our ERP system or other systems (whether in connection with the regular operation, periodic enhancements, modifications or upgrades of such systems or the integration of our acquired businesses into such systems) could adversely affect our ability to complete important business processes, such as the evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.
•we may have to devote unanticipated financial and management resources to acquired businesses;
•we may experience challenges in entering into new market segments for which we have not previously manufactured and sold products;
•the customers, distributors, suppliers, employees and others with whom the companies we acquire have business dealings may have a potentially adverse reaction to the acquisition;
•we may have to write-off goodwill or other intangible assets; and
We have significant manufacturing operations in the United States, Singapore, Israel, Germany and China. In addition, our business is international in nature, with our sales, service and administrative personnel and our customers located in numerous countries throughout the world. Operations at our manufacturing facilities and our assembly subcontractors, as well as our other operations and those of our customers, are subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, including work stoppages, acts of war, terrorism, health epidemics, fire, earthquake, volcanic eruptions, energy shortages, flooding or other natural disasters. Such disruption could cause delays in, among other things, shipments of products to our customers, our ability to perform services requested by our customers, or the installation and acceptance of our products at customer sites. We cannot ensure that alternate means of conducting our operations (whether through alternate production capacity or service providers or otherwise) would be available if a major disruption were to occur or that, if such alternate means were available, they could be obtained on favorable terms.
In addition, as part of our cost-cutting actions, we have consolidated several operating facilities. Our California operations are now primarily centralized in our Milpitas facility. The consolidation of our California operations into a single campus could further concentrate the risks related to any of the disruptive events described above, such as acts of war or terrorism, earthquakes, fires or other natural disasters, if any such event were to impact our Milpitas facility.
The threat of terrorism targeted at, or acts of war in, the regions of the world in which we do business increases the uncertainty in our markets. Any act of terrorism or war that affects the economy or the semiconductor industry could adversely affect our business. Increased international political instability in various parts of the world, disruption in air transportation and further enhanced security measures as a result of terrorist attacks may hinder our ability to do business and may increase our costs of operations. We maintain significant manufacturing and research and development operations in Israel, an area that has historically experienced a high degree of political instability, and we are therefore exposed to risks associated with future instability in that region. Such instability could directly impact our ability to operate our business (or our customers’ ability to operate their businesses) in the affected region, cause us to incur increased costs in transportation, make such transportation unreliable, increase our insurance costs, and cause international currency markets to fluctuate. Such instability could also have the same effects on our suppliers and their ability to timely deliver their products. If international political instability continues or increases in any region in which we do business, our business and results of operations could be harmed. We are predominantly uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist acts and acts of war.
We self-insure certain risks including earthquake risk. If one or more of the uninsured events occurs, we could suffer major financial loss.
We purchase insurance to help mitigate the economic impact of certain insurable risks; however, certain risks are uninsurable, are insurable only at significant cost or cannot be mitigated with insurance. Accordingly, we may experience a loss that is not covered by insurance, either because we do not carry applicable insurance or because the loss exceeds the applicable policy amount or is less than the deductible amount of the applicable policy. For example, we do not currently hold earthquake insurance. An earthquake could significantly disrupt our manufacturing operations, a significant portion of which are conducted in California, an area highly susceptible to earthquakes. It could also significantly delay our research and engineering efforts on new products, much of which is also conducted in California. We take steps to minimize the damage that would be caused by an earthquake, but there is no certainty that our efforts will prove successful in the event of an earthquake. We self-insure earthquake risks because we believe this is a prudent financial decision based on our cash reserves and the high cost and limited coverage available in the earthquake insurance market. Certain other risks are also self-insured either based on a similar cost-benefit analysis, or based on the unavailability of insurance. If one or more of the uninsured events occurs, we could suffer major financial loss.
We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Although we hedge certain currency risks, we may still be adversely affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates or declining economic conditions in these countries.
We have some exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily the Japanese Yen and the euro. We have international subsidiaries that operate and sell our products globally. In addition, an increasing proportion of our manufacturing activities are conducted outside of the United States, and many of the costs associated with such activities are denominated in foreign currencies. We routinely hedge our exposures to certain foreign currencies with certain financial institutions in an effort to minimize the impact of certain currency exchange rate fluctuations, but these hedges may be inadequate to protect us from currency exchange rate fluctuations. To the extent that these hedges are inadequate, or if there are significant currency exchange rate fluctuations in currencies for which we do not have hedges in place, our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business could be adversely affected. Furthermore, if a financial counterparty to our hedges experiences financial difficulties or is otherwise unable to honor the terms of the foreign currency hedge, we may experience material financial losses.
Our investment portfolio primarily consists of both corporate and government debt securities that are susceptible to changes in market interest rates and bond yields. As market interest rates and bond yields increase, those securities with a lower yield-at-cost show a mark-to-market unrealized loss. We believe we have the ability to realize the full value of all these investments upon maturity. However, an impairment of the fair market value of our investments, even if unrealized, must be reflected in our financial statements for the applicable period and may therefore have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for that period.
Compliance with federal securities laws, rules and regulations, as well as NASDAQ requirements, has become increasingly complex, and the significant attention and expense we must devote to those areas may have an adverse impact on our business.
Federal securities laws, rules and regulations, as well as NASDAQ rules and regulations, require companies to maintain extensive corporate governance measures, impose comprehensive reporting and disclosure requirements, set strict independence and financial expertise standards for audit and other committee members and impose civil and criminal penalties for companies and their chief executive officers, chief financial officers and directors for securities law violations. These laws, rules and regulations have increased, and in the future are expected to continue to increase, the scope, complexity and cost of our corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices, which could harm our results of operations and divert management’s attention from business operations.
A change in accounting standards or practices or a change in existing taxation rules or practices (or changes in interpretations of such standards, practices or rules) can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective.
New accounting standards and taxation rules and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements and taxation rules have occurred and will continue to occur in the future. Changes to (or revised interpretations or applications of) existing accounting standards or tax rules or the questioning of current or past practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. For example, in February 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update which amends the existing accounting standards for leases. Adoption of new standards may require changes to our processes, accounting systems, and internal controls. Difficulties encountered during adoption could result in internal control deficiencies or delay the reporting of our financial results. In addition, the passing of the Act in December 2017 caused us to significantly increase our provision for income taxes, which had a material adverse effect on our net income for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018. Further interpretations of the Act from the government and regulatory organizations may change our tax expense provided for our transitional tax liability and deferred tax adjustments as well as our provision liability or accounting treatment of the provisional liability which may potentially affect the measurement of these balances or potentially give rise to new deferred tax amounts.
Risks Related to Our Pending Acquisition of Orbotech
•the failure to consummate the acquisition may result in negative publicity and a negative impression of us in the investment community;
•required regulatory approvals from governmental entities may delay the acquisition or result in the imposition of conditions that could cause the abandonment of the acquisition;
•the attention of our employees and management may be diverted due to activities related to the acquisition; and 
•disruptions from the acquisition, whether completed or not, may harm our relationships with our employees, customers, distributors, suppliers or other business partners.
Even if the Orbotech acquisition is consummated, we may not be able to integrate the business of Orbotech successfully with our own or realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition.
•the inability to successfully combine our business with Orbotech in a manner that permits the combined company to achieve the cost synergies and other benefits anticipated to result from the acquisition;
•required regulatory approvals from governmental entities may result in limitations, additional costs or placement of restrictions on the conduct of the combined company, imposition of additional material costs on or materially limiting the revenues of the combined company following the acquisition;
•complexities associated with managing the combined businesses, including difficulty addressing possible differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies; and
•potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses or delays associated with the acquisition.
•diversion of the attention of our management; and
•the disruption of, or the loss of momentum in, our ongoing business or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures or policies,
The combined company is expected to incur substantial expenses related to the acquisition of and the integration of Orbotech.
