See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity
See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity
See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
 See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
Basis of Presentation. For purposes of this report, “KLA,” “KLA-Tencor,” the “Company,” “we,” “our,” “us,” or similar references mean KLA-Tencor Corporation, and its majority-owned subsidiaries unless the context requires otherwise. The condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared by us pursuant to the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations. 
The condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of KLA and its majority-owned subsidiaries. All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
The results of operations for the three and nine months ended March 31, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for any other interim period or for the full fiscal year ending June 30, 2019.
Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior year’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements to conform to the current year presentation. The reclassifications did not have material effects on the prior year’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, Statements of Operations, Comprehensive Income and Cash Flows.
Acquisition of Orbotech, Ltd. On February 20, 2019 (the “Closing Date” or “Acquisition Date”), we completed the acquisition of Orbotech, Ltd. (“Orbotech”) for $38.86 in cash and 0.25 of a share of our common stock in exchange for each ordinary share of Orbotech for a total consideration of $3.26 billion. The acquisition of Orbotech is referred to as the “Orbotech Acquisition”. The Orbotech Acquisition was accounted for by applying the acquisition method of accounting for business combinations. The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements in this report include the financial results of Orbotech prospectively from the Acquisition Date. For additional details, refer to Note 6 “Business Combinations.”
Comparability. Effective on the first day of fiscal 2019, we adopted Accounting Standards Update 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (“ASC 606”). Prior periods were not retrospectively restated, and accordingly, the consolidated balance sheet as of June 30, 2018, and the condensed consolidated statements of operations for the three and nine months ended March 31, 2018 were prepared using accounting standards that were different than those in effect for the three and nine months ended March 31, 2019.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued ASC 606, which supersedes the guidance in ASC 605, Revenue Recognition (“ASC 605”). Under ASC 606, revenue is recognized when a customer obtains control of promised goods or services in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. In addition, ASC 606 requires enhanced disclosures, including disclosure of the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. We adopted the ASC 606 as of July 1, 2018 in our first quarter of our fiscal year ending June 30, 2019, using the modified retrospective transition approach. For additional detail, refer to Note 2 “Revenue.” 
In January 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update that changes the accounting for financial instruments primarily related to equity investments (other than those accounted for under the equity method of accounting or those that result in consolidation of the investee), financial liabilities under the fair value option, and the presentation and disclosure requirements for financial instruments. We adopted this update beginning in the first quarter of our fiscal year ending June 30, 2019 on a prospective basis and the adoption had no material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
In August 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update intended to clarify how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows. We adopted this update beginning in the first quarter of our fiscal year ending June 30, 2019 on a retrospective basis and the adoption had no material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
In October 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update to recognize the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory when they occur. This eliminates the exception to postpone recognition until the asset has been sold to an outside party. We adopted this update beginning in the first quarter of our fiscal year ending June 30, 2019 on a modified retrospective basis and the adoption had no material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
In January 2017, the FASB issued an accounting standard on clarifying the definition of a business, with the objective of adding guidance to assist entities with evaluating whether transactions should be accounted for as acquisitions (or disposals) of assets or businesses. We adopted this update beginning in the first quarter of our fiscal year ending June 30, 2019 on a prospective basis and the adoption had no material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
In January 2017, the FASB issued an accounting standard update to simplify the subsequent measurement of goodwill by removing the second step of the two-step impairment test, which requires an entity to determine the fair value of assets and liabilities similar to what is required in a purchase price allocation. Under the update, goodwill impairment will be calculated as the amount by which a reporting unit’s carrying value exceeds our fair value. We early adopted this update in the first quarter of our fiscal year ending June 30, 2019 on a prospective basis and the adoption had no material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements. 
In May 2017, the FASB issued an accounting standard update regarding stock compensation that provides guidance about which changes to the terms and conditions of a share-based payment award require an entity to apply modification accounting in order to reduce diversity in practice and reduce complexity. We adopted this update beginning in the first quarter of our fiscal year ending June 30, 2019 on a prospective basis and the adoption had no material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
In August 2017, the FASB issued an accounting standard update to hedge accounting to better align risk management activities by refining financial and non-financial hedging strategy eligibilities. This update also amends the presentation and disclosure requirements to increase transparency to better understand an entity’s risk exposures and how hedging strategies are used to manage those exposures. We early adopted this update in the second quarter of our fiscal year ending June 30, 2019 under the modified retrospective approach. The cumulative effect adjustment for the elimination of the ineffectiveness was not material to our condensed consolidated financial statements. The presentation and disclosure have been amended on a prospective basis, as required by this update.
In February 2018, the FASB issued an accounting standard update that provides an option to reclassify disproportional tax effects and other income tax effects (“stranded tax effects”) caused by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“the Act”) from accumulated other comprehensive income (“AOCI”) to retained earnings. We early adopted this update in the first quarter of our fiscal year ending June 30, 2019 and applied this update in the period of adoption. As a result of the adoption, we made a reclassification from AOCI to beginning retained earnings of approximately $10.9 million related to the stranded tax effects.
In February 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update which amends the existing accounting standards for leases. Consistent with current guidance, the recognition, measurement, and presentation of expenses and cash flows arising from a lease by a lessee primarily will depend on our classification. Under the new guidance, a lessee will be required to recognize assets and liabilities for all leases with lease terms of more than 12 months using a modified retrospective transition method. In July 2018, the FASB issued an amendment to the standard which provides us an option to apply the practical expedient allowed in the standard retrospectively with the cumulative effect recognized as of the date of adoption. The update is effective for us beginning in the first quarter of our fiscal year ending June 30, 2020. Early adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on our condensed consolidated financial statements. 
In June 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update that changes the accounting for recognizing impairments of financial assets. Under the update, credit losses for certain types of financial instruments will be estimated based on expected losses. The update also modifies the impairment models for available-for-sale debt securities and for purchased financial assets with credit deterioration since their origination. The update is effective for us beginning in the first quarter of our fiscal year ending June 30, 2021, with early adoption permitted starting in the first quarter of fiscal year ending June 30, 2020. We are currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
In August 2018, the FASB issued an accounting standard update which modifies the existing accounting standards for fair value measurement disclosure. This update eliminates the disclosure of the amount of and reasons for transfers between level 1 and level 2 of the fair value hierarchy, and the policy for timing of transfers between levels. This standard update is effective for us beginning in the first quarter of our fiscal year ending June 30, 2021, and early adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
In August 2018, the FASB issued an accounting standard update to amend the disclosure requirements related to defined benefit pension and other post-retirement plans. Some of the changes include adding a disclosure requirement for significant gains and losses related to changes in the benefit obligation for the period and removing the amounts in accumulated other comprehensive income expected to be recognized as components of net periodic benefit cost over the next fiscal year. This standard update is effective for us for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2021, and early adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
In August 2018, the FASB issued an accounting standard update to align the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a cloud computing arrangement that is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software. The guidance clarifies which costs should be capitalized including the cost to acquire the license and the related implementation costs. This standard update is effective for us beginning in the first quarter of our fiscal year ending June 30, 2021, with an option to be adopted either prospectively or retrospectively. Early adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
Revenue Recognition. We primarily derive revenue from the sale of process control and yield management solutions for the semiconductor and related nanoelectronics industries, maintenance and support of all these products, installation and training services and the sale of spare parts. Our solutions provide a comprehensive portfolio of inspection, metrology and data analytics products, which are accompanied by a flexible portfolio of services to enable our customers to maintain the performance and productivity of the solutions purchased. The acquisition of Orbotech enabled us to broaden our portfolio to include the yield enhancement and production solutions used by manufacturers of printed circuit boards, flat panel displays, advanced packaging, micro-electro-mechanical systems and other electronic components.
Our solutions are generally not sold with a right of return, nor have we experienced significant returns from or refunds to our customers. 
We account for a contract with a customer when there is approval and commitment from both parties, the rights of the parties are identified, payment terms are identified, the contract has commercial substance and collectibility of consideration is probable. 
Our revenues are measured based on consideration stipulated in the arrangement with each customer, net of any sales incentives and amounts collected on behalf of third parties, such as sales taxes. The revenues are recognized as separate performance obligations that are satisfied by transferring control of the product or service to the customer. 
Our arrangements with our customers include various combinations of products and services, which are generally capable of being distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations. A product or service is considered distinct if it is separately identifiable from other deliverables in the arrangement and if a customer can benefit from it on its own or with other resources that are readily available to the customer.
The transaction consideration, including any sales incentives, is allocated between separate performance obligations of an arrangement based on the stand-alone selling prices (“SSP”) for each distinct product or service. Management considers a variety of factors to determine the SSP, such as, historical standalone sales of products and services, discounting strategies and other observable data.
From time to time, our contracts are modified to account for additional, or to change existing, performance obligations. Our contract modifications are generally accounted for prospectively.
•whether we have a present right to payment;
•the customer has significant risk and rewards of ownership; and
•the customer has accepted the product, or whether customer acceptance is considered a formality based on history of acceptance of similar products (for example, when the customer has previously accepted the same tool, with the same specifications, and when we can objectively demonstrate that the tool meets all of the required acceptance criteria, and when the installation of the system is deemed perfunctory).
Not all of the indicators need to be met for us to conclude that control has transferred to the customer. In circumstances in which revenue is recognized prior to the product acceptance, the portion of revenue associated with our performance obligations to install product is deferred and recognized upon acceptance. 
We enter into volume purchase agreements with some of our customers. We adjust the transaction consideration for estimated credits earned by our customers for such incentives. These credits are estimated based upon the forecasted and actual product sales for any given period and agreed-upon incentive rate. The estimate is updated at each reporting period. 
We offer perpetual and term licenses for defects and data analysis software. The primary difference between perpetual and term licenses is the duration over which the customer can benefit from the use of the software, while the functionality and the features of the software are the same. With the acquisition of Orbotech we offer computer-aided manufacturing and engineering software solutions for the printed circuit boards production. Software is generally bundled with post-contract customer support (“PCS”), which includes unspecified software updates that are made available throughout the entire term of the arrangement. Revenue from software licenses is recognized at a point in time, when the software is made available to the customer. Revenue from PCS is deferred at contract inception and recognized ratably over the service period, or as services are performed. 
The majority of product sales include a standard 6 to 12-month warranty that is not separately paid for by the customers. The customers may also purchase extended warranty for periods beyond the initial year as part of the initial product sale. We have concluded that the standard 12-month warranty as well as any extended warranty periods included in the initial product sales are separate performance obligations. The estimated fair value of warranty services is deferred and recognized ratably as revenue over the warranty period, as the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits of warranty services provided by us.
Additionally, we offer product maintenance and support services, which the customer may purchase separately from the standard and extended warranty offered as part of the initial product sale. Revenue from separately negotiated maintenance and support service contracts is also recognized over time based on the terms of the applicable service period. Revenue from services performed in the absence of a maintenance contract, including training revenue, is recognized when the related services are performed. We also sell spare parts, revenue from which is recognized when control over the spare parts is transferred to the customer.
Installation services include connecting and validating configuration of the product. In addition, several testing protocols are completed to confirm the equipment is performing to customer specifications. Revenue from product installation are deferred and recognized at a point in time, once installation is complete.
Significant Judgments
Although the products are generally not sold with a right of return, we may provide other credits or sales incentives, which are accounted for either as variable consideration or material right, depending on the specific terms and conditions of the arrangement. These credits and incentives are estimated at contract inception and updated at the end of each reporting period if and when additional information becomes available.
As outlined above, we use judgments to evaluate whether or not the customer has obtained control of the product and considers the several indicators in evaluating whether or not control has transferred to the customer. Not all of the indicators need to be met for us to conclude that control has transferred to the customer.
The timing of revenue recognition, billings and cash collections may result in accounts receivable, contract assets, and contract liabilities (deferred revenue) on our condensed consolidated balance sheet. A receivable is recorded in the period we deliver products or provide services when we have an unconditional right to payment. Contract assets primarily relate to the value of products and services transferred to the customer for which the right to payment is not just dependent on the passage of time. Contract assets are transferred to receivable when rights to payment become unconditional. 
A contract liability is recognized when we receive payment or have an unconditional right to payment in advance of the satisfaction of performance. The contract liabilities represent (1) deferred product revenue related to the value of products that have been shipped and billed to customers and for which the control has not been transferred to the customers, and (2) deferred service revenue, which is recorded when we receive consideration, or such consideration is unconditionally due, from a customer prior to transferring services to the customer under the terms of a contract. Deferred service revenue typically results from warranty services, and maintenance and other service contracts. 
Derivative Financial Instruments. We use financial instruments, such as forward exchange contracts and currency options, to hedge a portion of, but not all, existing and forecasted foreign currency denominated transactions. The purpose of our foreign currency program is to manage the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on certain foreign currency denominated revenues, costs and eventual cash flows. The effect of exchange rate changes on forward exchange contracts is expected to offset the effect of exchange rate changes on the underlying hedged items. We also use interest rate lock agreements to hedge the risk associated with the variability of cash flows due to changes in the benchmark interest rate of the intended debt financing. We believe these financial instruments do not subject us to speculative risk that would otherwise result from changes in currency exchange rates or interest rates. All of our derivative financial instruments are recorded at fair value based upon quoted market prices for comparable instruments adjusted for risk of counterparty non-performance. 
For derivative instruments designated and qualifying as cash flow hedges of forecasted foreign currency denominated transactions or debt financing expected to occur within twelve to eighteen months, the effective portion of the gains or losses is reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (“OCI”) and reclassified into earnings in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. Prior to adopting the new accounting guidance for hedge accounting, time value was excluded from the assessment of effectiveness for derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges. Time value was amortized on a mark-to-market basis and recognized in earnings over the life of the derivative contract. For derivative contracts executed after adopting the new accounting guidance, the election to include time value for the assessment of effectiveness is made on all forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges. The change in fair value of the derivative are recorded in OCI until the hedged transaction is recognized in earnings. The assessment effectiveness of options contracts designated as cash flow hedges continue to exclude time value after adopting the new accounting guidance. The initial value of the component excluded from the assessment of effectiveness are recognized in earnings over the life of the derivative contracts. Any difference between change in the fair value of the excluded components and the amounts recognized in earnings are recorded in OCI. For derivative instruments that are not designated as a cash flow hedge, gains and losses are recognized in other expense (income), net. We use foreign currency forward contracts to hedge certain foreign currency denominated assets or liabilities. The gains and losses on these derivative instruments are largely offset by the changes in the fair value of the assets or liabilities being hedged.
Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Act”) includes provisions for Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income (“GILTI”) wherein taxes on foreign income are imposed in excess of a deemed return on tangible assets of foreign corporations. This income will effectively be taxed at a 10.5% tax rate in general. As a result, the Company’s deferred tax assets and liabilities were being evaluated to determine if the deferred tax assets and liabilities should be recognized for the basis differences expected to reverse as a result of GILTI provisions that are effective for the Company after the fiscal year ending June 30, 2018, or should the tax on GILTI provisions be recognized as period costs in each year incurred. The Company has elected to account for GILTI as a component of current period tax expense starting from the first quarter of the fiscal year ending June 30, 2019.
New Revenue Accounting Standard
•An increase in retained earnings of approximately $26.0 million due to a change in the timing of transfer of control over products to the customers. 
 Under ASC 606, revenue is recognized earlier than it would have been recognized under legacy guidance primarily due to our assessment of timing of transfer of control. Additionally, we render standard warranty coverage on our products for 12 months, providing labor and parts necessary to repair and maintain the products during the warranty period. Prior to adoption of ASC 606, we accounted for the estimated warranty cost as a charge to costs of sales when revenue was recognized. Upon adoption of ASC 606, the standard warranty for the majority of products is recognized as a separate performance obligation in service revenue.
Orbotech adopted ASC 606 on January 1, 2018, and the effect of adopting the ASC 606 on Orbotech’s revenues and operating income was not material. Orbotech’s contracts under ASC 606 supports the recognition of revenue at a point in time for the majority of its contracts, which is consistent with its legacy revenue recognition model. Revenue on the majority of Orbotech’s contracts will continue to be recognized upon delivery because this represents the point in time at which control is transferred to the customers. Revenues derived from performance obligations such as warranty and service contracts will continue to be recognized over the period of the service.
Our payment terms and conditions vary by contract type, although terms generally include a requirement of payment of 70% to 90% of total contract consideration within 30 to 60 days of shipment, with the remainder payable within 30 days of acceptance. 
The change in contract assets during the nine months ended March 31, 2019 was mainly due to an increase in contract assets of $71.1 million from the Orbotech Acquisition in the third quarter of fiscal year 2019 and $19.4 million of revenue recognized in excess of the amounts billed to the customers, partially offset by $14.7 million of contract assets reclassified to net accounts receivable as our right to consideration for these contract assets became unconditional. Contract assets are included in Other current assets on our condensed consolidated balance sheet. 
During the nine months ended March 31, 2019, we recognized revenue of $422.3 million that was included in contract liabilities as of July 1, 2018. This was partially offset by an increase in contract liabilities of $28.8 million from the Orbotech Acquisition in the third quarter of fiscal year 2019, and the value of products and services billed to customers for which control of the products and service has not transferred to the customers. Contract liabilities are included in current and non-current liabilities on our condensed consolidated balance sheets.
As of March 31, 2019, we had $1.73 billion of remaining performance obligations, which represents our obligation to deliver products and services, and consists primarily of sales orders where written customer requests have been received. We expect to recognize approximately 5% to 15% of these performance obligations as revenue beyond the next twelve months, subject to risk of delays, pushouts, and cancellation by the customer, usually with limited or no penalties.
Refer to Note 17 “Segment Reporting and Geographic Information” for information related to revenue by geographic region as well as significant product and service offerings. 
•We account for shipping and handling costs as activities to fulfill the promise to transfer the goods, instead of a promised service to our customer.
•We have elected to not adjust the promised amount of consideration for the effects of a significant financing component as we expect, at contract inception, that the period between when the entity transfers a promised good or service to a customer and when the customer pays for that good or service will generally be one year or less.
•We have elected to expense costs to obtain a contract as incurred because the expected amortization period is one year or less.
•We have elected to reflect the aggregate effect of all modifications that occurred before July 1, 2018 in determining the transaction price, identifying the satisfied and unsatisfied performance obligations, and allocating the transaction price to the performance obligations.
Our financial assets and liabilities are measured and recorded at fair value, except for our debt and certain equity investments in privately-held companies. Prior to July 1, 2018, the equity investments were generally accounted for under the cost method of accounting and were periodically assessed for other-than-temporary impairment when an event or circumstance indicated that an other-than-temporary decline in value may have occurred. Effective July 1, 2018, equity investments without a readily available fair value are accounted for using the measurement alternative. The measurement alternative is calculated as cost minus impairment, if any, plus or minus changes resulting from observable price changes. 
Our non-financial assets, such as goodwill, intangible assets, and land, property and equipment, are assessed for impairment when an event or circumstance indicates that an other-than-temporary decline in value may have occurred.
Level 2 Valuations based on quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, quoted prices in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.
Level 3 Valuations based on inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities.
The principal market in which we execute our foreign currency contracts is the institutional market in an over-the-counter environment with a relatively high level of price transparency. The market participants generally are large financial institutions. Our foreign currency contracts’ valuation inputs are based on quoted prices and quoted pricing intervals from public data sources and do not involve management judgment. These contracts are typically classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.
The fair value of deferred payments and contingent consideration payable, the majority of which were recorded in connection with business combinations during the three months ended March 31, 2019, were classified as Level 3 and estimated using significant inputs that were not observable in the market. See Note 6 “Business Combinations” for additional information.
There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements during the nine months ended March 31, 2019. We did not have any assets or liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis within Level 3 fair value measurements as of June 30, 2018. See Note 8 “Debt” for disclosure of the fair value of our Senior Notes.
Consolidated Balance Sheets
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)
The amounts reclassified out of accumulated OCI related to our defined benefit pension plans, which were recognized as a component of net periodic cost for the three and nine months ended March 31, 2019 were $0.2 million and $0.6 million, respectively. The amounts reclassified out of accumulated OCI related to our defined benefit pension plans, which were recognized as a component of net periodic cost for the three and nine months ended March 31, 2018 were $0.4 million and $1.2 million, respectively. For additional details, refer to Note 11, “Employee Benefit Plans” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018.
Actual maturities may differ from contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to call or prepay obligations with or without call or prepayment penalties. Realized gains and losses on available-for-sale securities for the three and nine months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 were immaterial.
Orbotech Acquisition
On February 20, 2019, we completed the acquisition of 100% of the outstanding shares of Orbotech for aggregate purchase consideration of approximately $3.26 billion which was paid in part by cash of $1.90 billion, in part by KLA common shares with a fair value of $1.32 billion and the balance by the assumption of stock options and RSUs. Orbotech is a global supplier of yield-enhancing and process-enabling solutions for the manufacture of electronics products. KLA acquired Orbotech to extend and enhance its portfolio of products to address market opportunities in the printed circuit board, flat panel display, advanced packaging and semiconductor manufacturing areas. 
Preliminary Purchase Price Allocation
KLA allocated the purchase price to tangible and identified intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on the preliminary estimates of their estimated fair values, which were determined using generally accepted valuation techniques based on estimates and assumptions made by management at the time of the Orbotech Acquisition and are subject to change during the measurement period which is not expected to exceed one year. The primary tasks that are required to be completed include validation of business level forecasts, jurisdictional forecasts, customer attrition rates and synergies expected to be derived from the acquisition of Orbotech, including any related tax impacts. Any adjustments to our preliminary purchase price allocation identified during the measurement period will be recognized in the period in which the adjustments are determined. 
The operating results of Orbotech have been included in our consolidated financial statements for the three and nine months ended March 31, 2019 from the Acquisition Date. The goodwill was primarily attributable to the assembled workforce of Orbotech, planned growth in new markets and synergies expected to be achieved from the combined operations of KLA-Tencor and Orbotech. None of the goodwill is deductible for income tax purposes. Goodwill arising from the Orbotech Acquisition has been allocated to Orbotech which KLA is treating as a separate component as of March 31, 2019. As disclosed in Note 17 "Segment Reporting and Geographic Informaion", KLA is still in the process of completing the analysis of its segment reporting structure and upon completion of that analysis, goodwill associated with the Orbotech acquisition will be assigned to the appropriate reporting units.
We believe the amounts of purchased intangible assets recorded above represent the fair values of and approximate the amounts a market participant would pay for, these intangible assets as of the acquisition date.
Our statements of operations for the three and nine months ended March 31, 2019 included revenue of $161.3 million and a net loss of $28.7 million from Orbotech.
Other Fiscal 2019 Acquisitions
During the three months ended March 31, 2019 we acquired three privately-held companies primarily to expand our products and services offerings for an aggregate purchase price of $118.0 million, including the fair value of the promise to pay additional consideration of up to $13.0 million contingent on the achievement of certain milestones. As of March 31, 2019, the estimated fair value of the additional consideration was $4.8 million, which is classified as a current liability on the condensed consolidated balance sheet.
During the three months ended September 30, 2018 we acquired two privately-held companies for an aggregate purchase price of $15.4 million, including the fair value of the promise to pay total additional consideration of up to $6.0 million contingent on the achievement of certain milestones. As of March 31, 2019, the estimated fair value of the additional consideration was $1.9 million, which is classified as a current liability on the condensed consolidated balance sheet.
None of these acquisitions were individually material to our consolidated financial statements. 
A portion of the goodwill is deductible for income tax purposes. Our statements of operations for the three and nine months ended March 31, 2019 included revenues of $2.3 million and $3.1 million, respectively, and net losses of $2.8 million and $3.5 million, respectively, from these privately-held companies.
KLA, in the aggregate for the Orbotech and other fiscal 2019 acquisitions, incurred approximately $37.2 million of acquisition-related costs, which are primarily included within selling, general and administrative expenses in our condensed consolidated statements of operations.
In the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018, we acquired a product line from Keysight Technologies, Inc., a related party, for a total purchase consideration of $12.1 million, of which $5.2 million was allocated to goodwill based on the fair value at the acquisition date. Goodwill recognized was deductible for income tax purposes. For additional details, refer to Note 5 “Business Combinations,” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018. 
The following unaudited pro forma financial information summarizes the combined results of operations for KLA-Tencor, Orbotech, and the three acquisitions completed in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 as if the companies were combined as of the beginning of fiscal year 2018. The unaudited pro forma information includes adjustments to amortization and depreciation for intangible assets and property, plant and equipment acquired, adjustments to stock-based compensation expense, the purchase accounting effect on inventory acquired, the purchase accounting effect on deferred revenue, interest expense and amortization of debt issuance costs associated with the Senior Notes financing, and transaction costs. 
The change in goodwill during the nine months ended March 31, 2019 resulted primarily from $1.77 billion related to the Orbotech Acquisition and $43.4 million related to the acquisition of the privately-held companies during the period. For additional details, refer to Note 6 “Business Combinations”. 
We performed a qualitative assessment of the goodwill for our wafer inspection, patterning, GSS, and others reporting units during the three months ended March 31, 2019. Based on this assessment we concluded that it was more likely than not that the fair value of each of the reporting units exceeded its carrying amount. As a result of our determination based on our qualitative assessment, it was not necessary to perform the quantitative goodwill impairment test at this time. In assessing the qualitative factors, we considered the impact of key factors, including changes in the industry and competitive environment, market capitalization, stock price, earnings multiples, budgeted-to-actual revenue performance from prior year, gross margin and cash flows from operating activities. In addition, for goodwill associated with the Orbotech acquisition, no impairment indicators were identified as part of our goodwill impairment process.
Based on our assessment, goodwill in the reporting units was not impaired as of March 31, 2019 or June 30, 2018.
Purchased Intangible Assets
Purchased intangible assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or asset group may not be recoverable. The change in purchased intangible assets gross carrying amount resulted primarily from the Orbotech Acquisition and the acquisition of the privately-held companies. For additional details, refer to Note 6 “Business Combinations.”
As of March 31, 2019, future principal payments for the long-term debt are $250.0 million in fiscal year 2020; $500.0 million in fiscal year 2022; and $2.70 billion after fiscal year 2023.
In March 2019 and November 2014, we issued $1.20 billion and $2.50 billion, respectively (each, a “2019 Senior Notes”, a “2014 Senior Notes”, and collectively the “Senior Notes”), aggregate principal amount of senior, unsecured long-term notes. 
The original discounts on the 2019 Senior Notes and the 2014 Senior Notes amounted to $6.7 million and $4.0 million, respectively and are being amortized over the life of the debt. Interest is payable semi-annually on May 1 and November 1 of each year for the 2014 Senior Notes and semi-annually on March 15 and September 15 of each year for the 2019 Senior Notes. The indenture for the Senior Notes (the “Indenture”) includes covenants that limit our ability to grant liens on our facilities and enter into sale and leaseback transactions, subject to certain allowances under which certain sale and leaseback transactions are not restricted. 
Based on the trading prices of the Senior Notes on the applicable dates, the fair value of the Senior Notes as of March 31, 2019 and June 30, 2018 was approximately $3.61 billion and $2.33 billion, respectively. While the Senior Notes are recorded at cost, the fair value of the long-term debt was determined based on quoted prices in markets that are not active; accordingly, the long-term debt is categorized as Level 2 for purposes of the fair value measurement hierarchy.
As of March 31, 2019, we were in compliance with all of our covenants under the Indenture associated with the Senior Notes. 
In November 2017, we entered into a Credit Agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) providing for a $750.0 million five-year unsecured Revolving Credit Facility (the “Revolving Credit Facility”), which replaced our prior Credit Facility. Subject to the terms of the Credit Agreement, the Revolving Credit Facility may be increased in an amount up to $250.0 million in the aggregate. In November 2018, we entered into an Incremental Facility, Extension and Amendment Agreement (the “Amendment”), which amends the Credit Agreement to (a) extend the Maturity Date (the “Maturity Date”) from November 30, 2022 to November 30, 2023, (b) increase the total commitment by $250.0 million and (c) effect certain other amendments to the Credit Agreement as set forth in the Amendment. After giving effect to the Amendment, the total commitments under the Credit Agreement are $1.00 billion. During the third quarter of the fiscal year ending June 30, 2019, we made borrowings of $900.0 million from the Revolving Credit Facility, which were paid in full in the same quarter. As of March 31, 2019, we had no outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility. 
We may borrow, repay and reborrow funds under the Revolving Credit Facility until the Maturity Date, at which time such Revolving Credit Facility will terminate, and all outstanding loans under such facility, together with all accrued and unpaid interest, must be repaid. We may prepay outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility at any time without a prepayment penalty. 
The Revolving Credit Facility requires us to maintain an interest expense coverage ratio as described in the Credit Agreement, on a quarterly basis, covering the trailing four consecutive fiscal quarters of no less than 3.50 to 1.00. In addition, we are required to maintain the maximum leverage ratio as described in the Credit Agreement, on a quarterly basis of 3.00 to 1.00, covering the trailing four consecutive fiscal quarters for each fiscal quarter, which can be increased to 4.00 to 1.00 for a period of time in connection with a material acquisition or a series of material acquisitions. As of March 31, 2019, we elected to increase the maximum allowed leverage ratio to 4.00 to 1.00 following the Orbotech Acquisition.
We were in compliance with all covenants under the Credit Agreement as of March 31, 2019. 
As of March 31, 2019, we were able to issue new equity incentive awards, such as restricted stock units (“RSUs”) and stock options, to our employees, consultants and members of our Board of Directors under our 2004 Equity Incentive Plan (the “2004 Plan”) with 11.8 million shares available for issuance.
For details of the 2004 Plan refer to Note 8 “Equity and Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plans,” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018. 
Assumed Equity Plans
a)Each award of Orbotech’s stock options and RSUs that was outstanding and vested immediately prior to the Acquisition Date (collectively the “Vested Equity Awards”) was canceled and terminated and converted into the right to receive the purchase consideration in respect of such Vested Equity Awards as of the Acquisition Date, and in the case of stock options, less the exercise price.
b)Each award of Orbotech’s stock options and RSUs that was outstanding and unvested immediately prior to the Acquisition Date was assumed by us (each, an “Assumed Option” and “Assumed RSU”, and collectively the “Assumed Equity Awards”) and converted to stock options and RSUs exercisable for the number of shares of our common stock equal to the product of (i) the number of Orbotech shares underlying such Assumed Equity Awards as of immediately prior to the Acquisition Date multiplied by (ii) the exchange ratio defined in the Acquisition Agreement. The Assumed Equity Awards generally retain all of the rights, terms and conditions of the respective plans under which they were originally granted, including the same service-based vesting schedule, applicable thereto.
As of the Acquisition Date, the estimated fair value of the Assumed Equity Awards was $55.0 million, of which $13.3 million was recognized as goodwill and the balance of $41.7 million will be recognized as stock-based compensation expense over the remainder term of the Assumed Equity Awards. The fair value of the Assumed Equity Awards for services rendered through the Acquisition Date was recognized as a component of the merger consideration, with the remaining fair value related to the post-combination services to be recorded as stock-based compensation over the remaining vesting period. 
A total of 14,558 and 518,971 shares of our common stock underly the Assumed Options and RSUs and have an estimated weighted average fair value at the Acquisition Date of $53.27 and $104.49 per share, respectively. As of March 31, 2019, there were 14,558 and 482,317 shares of our common stock underlying the outstanding Assumed Options and RSUs, respectively, under the Assumed Equity Plans. The weighted-average remaining contractual terms, the aggregate intrinsic values, and the weighted average exercise price for the stock options outstanding under the Assumed Equity Plans as of March 31, 2019 were 4.67 years, $1.0 million, and $54.00 per share, respectively. No Assumed Options were exercised during the three months ended March 31, 2019.
As of March 31, 2019, the unrecognized stock-based compensation expense balance related to RSUs was $171.5 million, excluding the impact of estimated forfeitures, and will be recognized over a weighted-average remaining contractual term and an estimated weighted-average amortization period of 1.6 years. The intrinsic value of outstanding RSUs as of March 31, 2019 was $350.0 million. 
We have adopted a cash-based long-term incentive (“Cash LTI Plan”) program for many of our employees as part of our employee compensation program. Executives and non-employee members of the board of directors are not participating in this program. During the nine months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, we approved Cash LTI awards of $7.9 million and $5.9 million, respectively under our Cash LTI Plan. During the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, we recognized $12.2 million and 11.6 million, respectively, in compensation expense under the Cash LTI Plan. During the nine months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, we recognized $39.4 million and 37.9 million, respectively, in compensation expense under the Cash LTI Plan. As of March 31, 2019, the unrecognized compensation balance (excluding the impact of estimated forfeitures) related to the Cash LTI Plan was $93.7 million. For details, refer to Note 8 “Equity and Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plans,” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018.
Employee Stock Purchase Plan
Our Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“ESPP”) provides that eligible employees may contribute up to 15% of their eligible earnings toward the semi-annual purchase of our common stock. The ESPP is qualified under Section 423 of the Internal Revenue Code. The employee’s purchase price is derived from a formula based on the closing price of the common stock on the first day of the offering period versus the closing price on the date of purchase (or, if not a trading day, on the immediately preceding trading day).
The offering period (or length of the look-back period) under the ESPP has a duration of six months, and the purchase price with respect to each offering period beginning on or after such date is, until otherwise amended, equal to 85% of the lesser of (i) the fair market value of our common stock at the commencement of the applicable six-month offering period or (ii) the fair market value of our common stock on the purchase date. We estimate the fair value of purchase rights under the ESPP using a Black-Scholes model. 
The ESPP shares are replenished annually on the first day of each fiscal year by virtue of an evergreen provision. The provision allows for share replenishment equal to the lesser of 2.0 million shares or the number of shares which we estimate will be required to be issued under the ESPP during the forthcoming fiscal year. As of March 31, 2019, a total of 2.4 million shares were reserved and available for issuance under the ESPP.
Quarterly cash dividends
On January 31, 2019, our Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.75 per share on the outstanding shares of our common stock, which was paid on March 1, 2019 to the stockholders of record as of the close of business on February 15, 2019. The total amount of regular quarterly cash dividends and dividend equivalents paid during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 was $113.6 million and $92.1 million, respectively. The total amount of regular quarterly cash dividends and dividend equivalents paid by us during the nine months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 was $348.0 million and $278.8 million, respectively. The amount of accrued dividend equivalents payable for regular quarterly cash dividends on unvested RSUs with dividend equivalent rights as of March 31, 2019 and June 30, 2018 was $6.5 million and $6.7 million, respectively. These amounts will be paid upon vesting of the underlying RSUs.
On November 19, 2014, our Board of Directors declared a special cash dividend of $16.50 per share on our outstanding common stock. The declaration and payment of the special cash dividend was part of our leveraged recapitalization transaction under which the special cash dividend was financed through a combination of existing cash and proceeds from the debt financing disclosed in Note 8 “Debt” that was completed during the three months ended December 31, 2014. The total amount of the special cash dividend accrued by us at the declaration date was substantially paid out during the three months ended December 31, 2014, except for the aggregate special cash dividend of $43.0 million that was accrued for the unvested RSUs and to be paid when such underlying unvested RSUs vest. During the second quarter of fiscal 2019, all of the special cash dividends accrued with respect to outstanding RSUs were vested and paid in full. During the nine months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, the total special cash dividends paid with respect to vested RSUs were $2.9 million and $6.3 million, respectively. For details of the special cash dividend, refer to Note 8 “Equity and Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plans,” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018. 
We have consolidated the results of Orbotech LT Solar, LLC (“OLTS”) and Orbograph Ltd. (“Orbograph”), in which we own approximately 84% and 94% of the outstanding equity interest, respectively. OLTS is engaged in the research, development and marketing of products for the deposition of thin film coating of various materials on crystalline silicon photovoltaic wafers for solar energy panels through plasma-enhanced chemical vapor deposition (“PECVD”). Orbograph is engaged in the development and marketing of character recognition solutions to banks, financial and other payment processing institutions and healthcare providers. 
Additionally, we have consolidated the results of PixCell, an Israeli company developing diagnostic equipment for point-of-care hematology applications of which we own approximately 52% of the outstanding equity interest and are entitled to appoint the majority of this company’s directors. 
Our Board of Directors has authorized a program which permits us to repurchase up to $2.00 billion of our common stock, reflecting an increase from $1.00 billion upon the close of the Orbotech Acquisition. For additional details, refer to Note 1, “Basis of Presentation”. The intent of this program is to offset the dilution from our equity incentive plans, employee stock purchase plan, the issuance of shares in the Orbotech Acquisition, as well as to return excess cash to our stockholders. Subject to market conditions, applicable legal requirements and other factors, the repurchases were made in the open market in compliance with applicable securities laws, including the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules promulgated thereunder, such as Rule 10b-18 and Rule 10b5-1. This stock repurchase program has no expiration date and may be suspended at any time. As of March 31, 2019, an aggregate of approximately $1.21 billion was available for repurchase under our stock repurchase program. 
As of March 31, 2019, we had repurchased 0.1 million shares for $6.0 million, which repurchases had not settled prior to March 31, 2019. The amount was recorded as a component of other current liabilities for the period presented.
Basic net income (loss) per share is calculated by dividing net income (loss) available to common stockholders by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted net income (loss) per share is calculated by using the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period, increased to include the number of additional shares of common stock that would have been outstanding if the shares of common stock underlying our outstanding dilutive restricted stock units had been issued. The dilutive effect of outstanding restricted stock units is reflected in diluted net income (loss) per share by application of the treasury stock method. 
During the three months ended March 31, 2019, we completed the acquisition of Orbotech Ltd. As a result of the Orbotech acquisition, we recorded $819.8 million of net deferred tax liabilities primarily on the excess of book basis over the tax basis of acquired intangible assets and undistributed earnings in certain foreign subsidiaries. Adjustments to deferred taxes may be required when the purchase price allocation is finalized within the measurement period.
In May 2017, Orbotech received an assessment from the Israel Tax Authority (“ITA”) with respect to its fiscal years 2012 through 2014 (the “Assessment”, and the “Audit Period”, respectively), for an aggregate amount of tax against it, after offsetting all NOLs for tax purposes available through the end of 2014, of approximately NIS 218.0 million (approximately $65.0 million as of March 31, 2019), which amount includes related interest and linkage differentials to the Israeli consumer price index (as of date of the Assessment). We believe our recorded unrecognized tax benefits are sufficient to cover the resolution of the Assessment. 
On August 31, 2018, Orbotech filed an objection in respect of the tax assessment (the “Objection”). Orbotech is now in the process of the second stage, in which the claims raised by it in the Objection are examined by different personnel at the ITA. In addition, the ITA can examine additional items and may assess additional amounts in the second stage. The second stage must be completed within one year of when the Objection was filed. 
In connection with the above, there is an ongoing criminal investigation in Israel against Orbotech, which became our wholly owned subsidiary as of the acquisition date, certain of its employees and its tax consultant. On April 11, 2018, Orbotech received a “suspect notification letter” (dated March 28, 2018) from the Tel Aviv District Attorney’s Office (Fiscal and Financial). In the letter, it was noted that the investigation file was transferred from the Assessment Investigation Officer to the District Attorney’s Office. The letter further states that the District Attorney’s Office has not yet made a decision regarding submission of an indictment against Orbotech; and that if after studying the case, a decision is made to consider prosecuting Orbotech, Orbotech will receive an additional letter, and within 30 days, Orbotech may present its arguments to the District Attorney’s Office as to why it should not be indicted. To date, neither we nor Orbotech has received such an additional letter or any other correspondence or contact from the District Attorney’s Office. We will continue to monitor the progress of the District Attorney’s Office investigation, however, cannot anticipate when the review of the case will be completed and what will be the results thereof. We intend to cooperate with the District Attorney’s Office to enable them to conclude their investigation.
Leases. We lease certain of our facilities, autos and equipments under arrangements that are accounted for as operating leases. Facilities rent expense was $3.1 million and $2.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively and was $7.8 million and $7.7 million for the nine months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively
Purchase Commitments. We maintain commitments to purchase inventory from our suppliers as well as goods, services, and other assets in the ordinary course of business. Our liability under these purchase commitments is generally restricted to a forecasted time-horizon as mutually agreed upon between the parties. This forecasted time-horizon can vary among different suppliers. Our estimate of our significant purchase commitments for primarily material, services, supplies and asset purchases is approximately $603.3 million as of March 31, 2019, which are primarily due within the next 12 months. 
Actual expenditures will vary based upon the volume of the transactions and length of contractual service provided. In addition, the amounts paid under these arrangements may be less in the event that the arrangements are renegotiated or canceled. Certain agreements provide for potential cancellation penalties.
Guarantees and Contingencies. We maintain guarantee arrangements available through various financial institutions for up to $45.1 million, of which $38.7 million had been issued as of March 31, 2019, primarily to fund guarantees to customs authorities for value-added tax (“VAT”) and other operating requirements of our subsidiaries in Europe, Israel and Asia.
In addition, we may in limited circumstances enter into agreements that contain customer-specific commitments on pricing, tool reliability, spare parts stocking levels, response time and other commitments. Furthermore, we may give these customers limited audit or inspection rights to enable them to confirm that we are complying with these commitments. If a customer elects to exercise its audit or inspection rights, we may be required to expend significant resources to support the audit or inspection, as well as to defend or settle any dispute with a customer that could potentially arise out of such audit or inspection. To date, we have made no significant accruals in our condensed consolidated financial statements for this contingency. While we have not in the past incurred significant expenses for resolving disputes regarding these types of commitments, we cannot make any assurance that it will not incur any such liabilities in the future.
The authoritative guidance requires companies to recognize all derivative instruments and hedging activities, including foreign currency exchange contracts and interest rate lock agreements, (collectively “derivatives”) as either assets or liabilities at fair value on the condensed consolidated balance sheets. In accordance with the accounting guidance, we designate foreign currency exchange contracts and interest rate lock agreements as cash flow hedges of certain forecasted foreign currency denominated sales, purchase and spending transactions, and the benchmark interest rate of the corresponding debt financing, respectively.
Our foreign subsidiaries operate and sell our products in various global markets. As a result, we are exposed to risks relating to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. We utilize foreign currency forward exchange contracts and option contracts to hedge against future movements in foreign exchange rates that affect certain existing and forecasted foreign currency denominated sales and purchase transactions, such as the Japanese yen, the euro, the pound sterling and the Israeli new shekel. We routinely hedge our exposures to certain foreign currencies with various financial institutions in an effort to minimize the impact of certain currency exchange rate fluctuations. These currency forward exchange contracts and options, designated as cash flow hedges, generally have maturities of less than 18 months. Cash flow hedges are evaluated for effectiveness monthly, based on changes in total fair value of the derivatives. If a financial counterparty to any of our hedging arrangements experiences financial difficulties or is otherwise unable to honor the terms of the foreign currency hedge, we may experience material losses.
In October 2014, we entered into a series of forward contracts (“Rate Lock Agreements”) to lock the benchmark rate on a portion of the Senior Notes. The Rate Lock Agreements were matured and terminated in the second quarter of the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015 and we recorded the fair value of $7.5 million as a gain within accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (“OCI”) as of December 31, 2014. As of March 31, 2019, the unamortized portion of the fair value of the forward contracts for the Rate Lock Agreements was $4.2 million. For more details, refer to Note 16, “Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018. 
For derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the gains or losses is reported in OCI and reclassified into earnings in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. Prior to adopting the new accounting guidance for hedge accounting, time value was excluded from the assessment of effectiveness for derivatives designated as cash flow hedges. Time value was amortized on a mark-to-market basis and recognized in earnings over the life of the derivative contract. For derivative contracts executed after adopting the new accounting guidance, the election to include time value for the assessment of effectiveness is made on all forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges. The change in fair value of the derivative are recorded in OCI until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. The assessment of effectiveness of options contracts designated as cash flow hedges continue to exclude time value after adopting the new accounting guidance. The initial value of the component excluded from the assessment of effectiveness are recognized in earnings over the life of the derivative contract. Any difference between change in the fair value of the excluded components and the amounts recognized in earnings are recorded in OCI. 
For derivatives that are not designated as cash flow hedges, gains and losses are recognized in other expense (income), net. We use foreign currency forward contracts to hedge certain foreign currency denominated assets or liabilities. The gains and losses on these derivative instruments are largely offset by the changes in the fair value of the assets or liabilities being hedged.
Offsetting of Derivative Assets and Liabilities
Our receivable balances from these parties were $1.9 million as of March 31, 2019 and immaterial for June 30, 2018. Our payable balance from these parties was immaterial at March 31, 2019 and June 30, 2018.
While we operate our business in multiple operating segments, we have only one reportable segment. Operating segments are defined as components of an enterprise about which separate financial information is evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision maker in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance. 
All operating segments have been aggregated due to their inter-dependencies, commonality of long-term economic characteristics, products and services, the production processes, class of customer and distribution processes. Our service products are an extension of the system product portfolio and provide customers with spare parts and fab management services (including system preventive maintenance and optimization services) to improve yield, increase production uptime and throughput, and lower the cost of ownership. Since we operate in one reportable segment, all financial segment information required by the authoritative guidance can be found in the condensed consolidated financial statements.
Our significant operations outside the United States include manufacturing facilities in China, Germany, Israel and Singapore and sales, marketing and service offices in Japan, the rest of the Asia Pacific region and Europe. For geographical revenue reporting, revenues are attributed to the geographic location in which the customer is located. Long-lived assets consist of land, property and equipment, net and are attributed to the geographic region in which they are located.
In the three months ended March 31, 2019, one customer accounted for approximately 19% of total revenues. In the three months ended March 31, 2018, two customers accounted for approximately 22% and 11% of total revenues. In the nine months ended March 31, 2019, two customers accounted for approximately 15% and 11% of total revenues. In the nine months ended March 31, 2018, one customer accounted for approximately 22% of total revenues. One and three customers on an individual basis accounted for greater than 10% of net accounts receivables as of March 31, 2019 and June 30, 2018, respectively. 
On May 3, 2019, we announced that our Board of Directors had declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.75 per share to be paid on June 4, 2019 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on May 15, 2019.
The information set forth above under Note 13, “Litigation and Other Legal Matters,” to the condensed consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of Part 1 is incorporated herein by reference.
Risks Associated with Our Industry 
Ongoing changes in the technology industry, as well as the semiconductor industry in particular, could expose our business to significant risks.
•the increasing cost of building and operating fabrication facilities and the impact of such increases on our customers’ capital equipment investment decisions; 
•differing market growth rates and capital requirements for different applications, such as memory, logic and foundry; 
•lower level of process control adoption by our memory customers compared to our foundry and logic customers;
•the emergence of disruptive technologies that change the prevailing semiconductor manufacturing processes (or the economics associated with semiconductor manufacturing) and, as a result, also impact the inspection and metrology requirements associated with such processes; 
•the possible introduction of integrated products by our larger competitors that offer inspection and metrology functionality in addition to managing other semiconductor manufacturing processes;
•the bifurcation of the semiconductor manufacturing industry into (a) leading edge manufacturers driving continued research and development into next-generation products and technologies and (b) other manufacturers that are content with existing (including previous generation) products and technologies;
•the ever escalating cost of next-generation product development, which may result in joint development programs between us and our customers or government entities to help fund such programs that could restrict our control of, ownership of and profitability from the products and technologies developed through those programs; and
•the entry by some semiconductor manufacturers into collaboration or sharing arrangements for capacity, cost or risk with other manufacturers, as well as increased outsourcing of their manufacturing activities, and greater focus only on specific markets or applications, whether in response to adverse market conditions or other market pressures. 
We are exposed to risks associated with a highly concentrated customer base.
•Certain customers have undergone significant ownership changes, created alliances with other companies, experienced management changes or have outsourced manufacturing activities, any of which may result in additional complexities in managing customer relationships and transactions. Any future change in ownership or management of our existing customers may result in similar challenges, including the possibility of the successor entity or new management deciding to select a competitor’s products.
•Semiconductor manufacturers generally must commit significant resources to qualify, install and integrate process control and yield management equipment into a semiconductor production line. We believe that once a semiconductor manufacturer selects a particular supplier’s process control and yield management equipment, the manufacturer generally relies upon that equipment for that specific production line application for an extended period of time. Accordingly, we expect it to be more difficult to sell our products to a given customer for that specific production line application and other similar production line applications if that customer initially selects a competitor’s equipment. Similarly, we expect it to be challenging for a competitor to sell its products to a given customer for a specific production line application if that customer initially selects our equipment.
Risks Related to Our Business Model and Capital Structure
In addition, the complexity of our products exposes us to other risks. We regularly recognize revenue from a sale upon shipment of the applicable product to the customer (even before receiving the customer’s formal acceptance of that product) in certain situations, including sales of products for which installation is considered perfunctory, transactions in which the product is sold to an independent distributor and we have no installation obligations, and sales of products where we have previously delivered the same product to the same customer location and that prior delivery has been accepted. However, our products are very technologically complex and rely on the interconnection of numerous subcomponents (all of which must perform to their respective specifications), so it is conceivable that a product for which we recognize revenue upon shipment may ultimately fail to meet the overall product’s required specifications. In such a situation, the customer may be entitled to certain remedies, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results for various periods and, as a result, our stock price.
While patent, copyright and trademark protection for our intellectual property is important, we believe our future success in highly dynamic markets is most dependent upon the technical competence and creative skills of our personnel. We attempt to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information through confidentiality and other agreements with our customers, suppliers, employees and consultants and through other security measures. We also maintain exclusive and non-exclusive licenses with third parties for strategic technology used in certain products. However, these employees, consultants and third parties may breach these agreements, and we may not have adequate remedies for wrongdoing. In addition, the laws of certain territories in which we develop, manufacture or sell our products may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. In any event, the extent to which we can protect our trade secrets through the use of confidentiality agreements is limited, and our success will depend to a significant extent on our ability to innovate ahead of our competitors.
Our industry includes large manufacturers with substantial resources to support customers worldwide. Some of our competitors are diversified companies with greater financial resources and more extensive research, engineering, manufacturing, marketing, and customer service and support capabilities than we possess. We face competition from companies whose strategy is to provide a broad array of products and services, some of which compete with the products and services that we offer. These competitors may bundle their products in a manner that may discourage customers from purchasing our products, including pricing such competitive tools significantly below our product offerings. In addition, we face competition from smaller emerging companies whose strategy is to provide a portion of the products and services that we offer, using innovative technology to sell products into specialized markets. The strength of our competitive positions in many of our existing markets is largely due to our leading technology, which is the result of continuing significant investments in product research and development. However, we may enter new markets, whether through acquisitions or new internal product development, in which competition is based primarily on product pricing, not technological superiority. Further, some new growth markets that emerge may not require leading technologies. Loss of competitive position in any of the markets we serve, or an inability to sell our products on favorable commercial terms in new markets we may enter, could negatively affect our prices, customer orders, revenues, gross margins and market share, any of which would negatively affect our operating results and financial condition.
Our capital structure is highly leveraged.
Borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility bear interest at a floating rate, and an increase in interest rates would require us to pay additional interest on any borrowings, which may have an adverse effect on the value and liquidity of our debt and the market price of our common stock could decline. The interest rate under our Revolving Credit Facility is also subject to an adjustment in conjunction with our credit rating downgrades or upgrades. Additionally, under our Revolving Credit Facility, we are required to comply with affirmative and negative covenants, which include the maintenance of certain financial ratios, the details of which can be found in Note 8, “Debt,” to our condensed consolidated financial statements. If we fail to comply with these covenants, we will be in default and our borrowings will become immediately due and payable. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient financial resources or we will be able to arrange financing to repay our borrowings at such time. In addition, certain of our domestic subsidiaries are required to guarantee our borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility. In the event that we default on our borrowings, these domestic subsidiaries shall be liable for our borrowings, which could disrupt our operations and result in a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or stock price.
•a negative impact on our ability to satisfy our future obligations;
•an increase in the portion of our cash flows that may have to be dedicated to increased interest and principal payments that may not be available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments, dividends, stock repurchases, general corporate or other purposes; 
•an impairment of our ability to obtain additional financing in the future; and
•obligations to comply with restrictive and financial covenants as noted in the above risk factor and Note 8, “Debt,” to our condensed consolidated financial statements. 
Our ability to satisfy our future expenses as well as our new debt obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory and other factors. Furthermore, our future operations may not generate sufficient cash flows to enable us to meet our future expenses and service our new debt obligations, which may impact our ability to manage our capital structure to preserve and maintain our investment grade rating. If our future operations do not generate sufficient cash flows, we may need to access the money available for borrowing under our Revolving Credit Facility or enter into new financing arrangements to obtain necessary funds. If we determine it is necessary to seek additional funding for any reason, we may not be able to obtain such funding or, if funding is available, we may not be able to obtain it on acceptable terms. Any borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility will place further pressure on us to comply with the financial covenants. If we fail to make a payment associated with our debt obligations, we could be in default on such debt, and such a default could cause us to be in default on our other obligations. 
There can be no assurance that we will continue to declare cash dividends at all or in any particular amounts.
In addition, we may in limited circumstances enter into agreements that contain customer-specific commitments on pricing, tool reliability, spare parts stocking levels, response time and other commitments. Furthermore, we may give these customers limited audit or inspection rights to enable them to confirm that we are complying with these commitments. If a customer elects to exercise its audit or inspection rights, we may be required to expend significant resources to support the audit or inspection, as well as to defend or settle any dispute with a customer that could potentially arise out of such audit or inspection. To date, we have made no significant accruals in our condensed consolidated financial statements for this contingency. While we have not in the past incurred significant expenses for resolving disputes regarding these types of commitments, we cannot make any assurance that we will not incur any such liabilities in the future. Our business, financial condition and results of operations in a reported fiscal period could be materially and adversely affected if we expend significant amounts in supporting an audit or inspection, or defending or settling any purported claims, regardless of their merit or outcomes.
There are risks associated with our receipt of government funding for research and development.
We are exposed to additional risks related to our receipt of external funding for certain strategic development programs from various governments and government agencies, both domestically and internationally. Governments and government agencies typically have the right to terminate funding programs at any time in their sole discretion, or a project may be terminated by mutual agreement if the parties determine that the project’s goals or milestones are not being achieved, so there is no assurance that these sources of external funding will continue to be available to us in the future. In addition, under the terms of these government grants, the applicable granting agency typically has the right to audit the costs that we incur, directly and indirectly, in connection with such programs. Any such audit could result in modifications to, or even termination of, the applicable government funding program. For example, if an audit were to identify any costs as being improperly allocated to the applicable program, those costs would not be reimbursed, and any such costs that had already been reimbursed would have to be refunded. We do not know the outcome of any future audits. Any adverse finding resulting from any such audit could lead to penalties (financial or otherwise), termination of funding programs, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from receiving future government funding from the applicable government or government agency, any of which could adversely impact our operating results, financial condition and ability to operate our business.
In the past, we have recorded material charges related to the impairment of our goodwill and purchased intangible assets. Goodwill represents the excess of costs over the net fair value of net assets acquired in a business combination. Goodwill is not amortized, but is instead tested for impairment at least annually in accordance with authoritative guidance for goodwill. Purchased intangible assets with estimable useful lives are amortized over their respective estimated useful lives based on economic benefit if known or using the straight-line method, and are reviewed for impairment in accordance with authoritative guidance for long-lived assets. The valuation of goodwill and intangible assets requires assumptions and estimates of many critical factors, including revenue and market growth, operating cash flows, market multiples, and discount rates. A substantial decline in our stock price, or any other adverse change in market conditions, particularly if such change has the effect of changing one of the critical assumptions or estimates we previously used to calculate the value of our goodwill or intangible assets (and, as applicable, the amount of any previous impairment charge), could result in a change to the estimation of fair value that could result in an additional impairment charge.
We are exposed to risks related to our financial arrangements with respect to receivables factoring and banking arrangements.
We are subject to the risks of additional government actions in the event we were to breach the terms of any settlement arrangement into which we have entered.
General Commercial, Operational, Financial and Regulatory Risks
•exposure to the unique characteristics of each region in the global market, which can cause capital equipment investment patterns to vary significantly from period to period;
•periodic local or international economic downturns;
•compliance with customs regulations in the countries in which we do business;
•tariffs or other trade barriers (including those applied to our products or to parts and supplies that we purchase);
•political instability, natural disasters, legal or regulatory changes, acts of war or terrorism in regions where we have operations or where we do business;
•longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable outside of the United States;
•difficulties in managing foreign distributors (including monitoring and ensuring our distributors’ compliance with applicable laws); and
•inadequate protection or enforcement of our intellectual property and other legal rights in foreign jurisdictions.
In addition, government controls, either by the United States or other countries, that restrict our business overseas or the import or export of our products or increase the cost of our operations through the imposition of tariffs or otherwise, could harm our business. For example, effective on October 30, 2018, the United States Department of Commerce added Fujian Jinhua Integrated Circuit Company, Ltd. (“JHICC”) to its entity list, restricting exports of technology to JHICC without a license. As a result, unless JHICC is subsequently removed from the entity list, we will be unable to fulfill orders JHICC has made for our products, accept future orders placed by JHICC for our products, and provide services for any of our products already installed at JHICC.
We are exposed to various risks related to the legal, regulatory and tax environments in which we perform our operations and conduct our business.
Our employees are vital to our success, and our key management, engineering and other employees are difficult to replace. We generally do not have employment contracts with our key employees. Further, we do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our employees. The expansion of high technology companies worldwide has increased demand and competition for qualified personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, or if we are not able to attract, assimilate and retain additional highly qualified employees to meet our current and future needs, our business and operations could be harmed.
We outsource a number of services to third-party service providers, which decreases our control over the performance of these functions. Disruptions or delays at our third-party service providers could adversely impact our operations.
We outsource a number of services, including our transportation, information systems management and logistics management of spare parts and certain accounting and procurement functions, to domestic and overseas third-party service providers. While outsourcing arrangements may lower our cost of operations, they also reduce our direct control over the services rendered. It is uncertain what effect such diminished control will have on the quality or quantity of products delivered or services rendered, on our ability to quickly respond to changing market conditions, or on our ability to ensure compliance with all applicable domestic and foreign laws and regulations. In addition, many of these outsourced service providers, including certain hosted software applications that we use for confidential data storage, employ cloud computing technology for such storage. These providers’ cloud computing systems may be susceptible to “cyber incidents,” such as intentional cyber attacks aimed at theft of sensitive data or inadvertent cyber-security compromises, which are outside of our control. If we do not effectively develop and manage our outsourcing strategies, if required export and other governmental approvals are not timely obtained, if our third-party service providers do not perform as anticipated, or do not adequately protect our data from cyber-related security breaches, or if there are delays or difficulties in enhancing business processes, we may experience operational difficulties (such as limitations on our ability to ship products), increased costs, manufacturing or service interruptions or delays, loss of intellectual property rights or other sensitive data, quality and compliance issues, and challenges in managing our product inventory or recording and reporting financial and management information, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.
We are exposed to risks related to cybersecurity threats and cyber incidents.
In the conduct of our business, we collect, use, transmit and store data on information systems. This data includes confidential information, transactional information and intellectual property belonging to us, our customers and our business partners, as well as personally-identifiable information of individuals. We allocate significant resources to network security, data encryption and other measures to protect our information systems and data from unauthorized access or misuse. Despite our ongoing efforts to enhance our network security measures, our information systems are susceptible to computer viruses, cyber-related security breaches and similar disruptions from unauthorized intrusions, tampering, misuse, criminal acts, including phishing, or other events or developments that we may be unable to anticipate or fail to mitigate and are subject to the inherent vulnerabilities of network security measures. We have experienced cyber-related attacks in the past, and may experience cyber-related attacks in the future. Our security measures may also be breached due to employee errors, malfeasance, or otherwise. Third parties may also attempt to influence employees, users, suppliers or customers to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our, our customers’ or business partners’ data. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to the information systems change frequently, and may not be recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures.
We carry insurance that provides some protection against the potential losses arising from a cybersecurity incident but it will not likely cover all such losses, and the losses that it does not cover may be significant.
We rely upon certain critical information systems for our daily business operations. Our inability to use or access our information systems at critical points in time could unfavorably impact our business operations.
Our global operations are dependent upon certain information systems, including telecommunications, the internet, our corporate intranet, network communications, email and various computer hardware and software applications. System failures or malfunctioning, such as difficulties with our customer relationship management (“CRM”) system, could disrupt our operations and our ability to timely and accurately process and report key components of our financial results. Our enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) system is integral to our ability to accurately and efficiently maintain our books and records, record transactions, provide critical information to our management, and prepare our financial statements. Any disruptions or difficulties that may occur in connection with our ERP system or other systems (whether in connection with the regular operation, periodic enhancements, modifications or upgrades of such systems or the integration of our acquired businesses into such systems) could adversely affect our ability to complete important business processes, such as the evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.
•we may have to devote unanticipated financial and management resources to acquired businesses;
•we may experience challenges in entering into new market segments for which we have not previously manufactured and sold products;
•the customers, distributors, suppliers, employees and others with whom the companies we acquire have business dealings may have a potentially adverse reaction to the acquisition;
•we may have difficulty implementing a cohesive framework of internal controls over the entire organization;
•we may have to write-off goodwill or other intangible assets; and
We have significant manufacturing operations in the United States, Singapore, Israel, Germany and China. In addition, our business is international in nature, with our sales, service and administrative personnel and our customers located in numerous countries throughout the world. Operations at our manufacturing facilities and our assembly subcontractors, as well as our other operations and those of our customers, are subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, including work stoppages, acts of war, terrorism, health epidemics, fire, earthquake, volcanic eruptions, energy shortages, flooding or other natural disasters. Such disruption could cause delays in, among other things, shipments of products to our customers, our ability to perform services requested by our customers, or the installation and acceptance of our products at customer sites. We cannot provide any assurance that alternate means of conducting our operations (whether through alternate production capacity or service providers or otherwise) would be available if a major disruption were to occur or that, if such alternate means were available, they could be obtained on favorable terms.
In addition, as part of our cost-cutting actions, we have consolidated several operating facilities. Our California operations are now primarily centralized in our Milpitas facility. The consolidation of our California operations into a single campus could further concentrate the risks related to any of the disruptive events described above, such as acts of war or terrorism, earthquakes, fires or other natural disasters, if any such event were to impact our Milpitas facility.
The threat of terrorism targeted at, or acts of war in, the regions of the world in which we do business increases the uncertainty in our markets. Any act of terrorism or war that affects the economy or the industries we serve could adversely affect our business. Increased international political instability in various parts of the world, disruption in air transportation and further enhanced security measures as a result of terrorist attacks may hinder our ability to do business and may increase our costs of operations. We maintain significant operations in Israel. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors, and a state of hostility varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic challenges for Israel. In addition, some our employees in Israel are obligated to perform annual reserve duty in the Israel Defense Forces, and may be called to active military duty in emergency circumstances. We cannot assess the impact that emergency conditions in Israel in the future may have on our business, operations, financial condition or results of operations, but it could be material. Instability in any region could directly impact our ability to operate our business (or our customers’ ability to operate their businesses), cause us to incur increased costs in transportation, make such transportation unreliable, increase our insurance costs, and cause international currency markets to fluctuate. Instability in the region could also have the same effects on our suppliers and their ability to timely deliver their products. If international political instability continues or increases in any region in which we do business, our business and results of operations could be harmed. We are predominantly uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist acts and acts of war.
We self-insure certain risks including earthquake risk. If one or more of the uninsured events occurs, we could suffer major financial loss.
We purchase insurance to help mitigate the economic impact of certain insurable risks; however, certain risks are uninsurable, are insurable only at significant cost or cannot be mitigated with insurance. Accordingly, we may experience a loss that is not covered by insurance, either because we do not carry applicable insurance or because the loss exceeds the applicable policy amount or is less than the deductible amount of the applicable policy. For example, we do not currently hold earthquake insurance. An earthquake could significantly disrupt our manufacturing operations, a significant portion of which are conducted in California, an area highly susceptible to earthquakes. It could also significantly delay our research and engineering efforts on new products, much of which is also conducted in California. We take steps to minimize the damage that would be caused by an earthquake, but there is no certainty that our efforts will prove successful in the event of an earthquake. We self-insure earthquake risks because we believe this is a prudent financial decision based on our cash reserves and the high cost and limited coverage available in the earthquake insurance market. Certain other risks are also self-insured either based on a similar cost-benefit analysis, or based on the unavailability of insurance. If one or more of the uninsured events occurs, we could suffer major financial loss.
We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Although we hedge certain currency risks, we may still be adversely affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates or declining economic conditions in these countries.
We have some exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily the Japanese Yen and the euro. We have international subsidiaries that operate and sell our products globally. In addition, an increasing proportion of our manufacturing activities are conducted outside of the United States, and many of the costs associated with such activities are denominated in foreign currencies. We routinely hedge our exposures to certain foreign currencies with certain financial institutions in an effort to minimize the impact of certain currency exchange rate fluctuations, but these hedges may be inadequate to protect us from currency exchange rate fluctuations. To the extent that these hedges are inadequate, or if there are significant currency exchange rate fluctuations in currencies for which we do not have hedges in place, our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business could be adversely affected. Furthermore, if a financial counterparty to our hedges experiences financial difficulties or is otherwise unable to honor the terms of the foreign currency hedge, we may experience material financial losses.
Our investment portfolio primarily consists of both corporate and government debt securities that are susceptible to changes in market interest rates and bond yields. As market interest rates and bond yields increase, those securities with a lower yield-at-cost show a mark-to-market unrealized loss. We believe we have the ability to realize the full value of all these investments upon maturity. However, an impairment of the fair market value of our investments, even if unrealized, must be reflected in our financial statements for the applicable period and may therefore have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for that period.
Compliance with federal securities laws, rules and regulations, as well as NASDAQ requirements, has become increasingly complex, and the significant attention and expense we must devote to those areas may have an adverse impact on our business.
Federal securities laws, rules and regulations, as well as NASDAQ rules and regulations, require companies to maintain extensive corporate governance measures, impose comprehensive reporting and disclosure requirements, set strict independence and financial expertise standards for audit and other committee members and impose civil and criminal penalties for companies and their chief executive officers, chief financial officers and directors for securities law violations. These laws, rules and regulations have increased, and in the future are expected to continue to increase, the scope, complexity and cost of our corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices, which could harm our results of operations and divert management’s attention from business operations.
New accounting standards and taxation rules and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements and taxation rules have occurred and will continue to occur in the future. Changes to (or revised interpretations or applications of) existing accounting standards or tax rules or the questioning of current or past practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. For example, in February 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update which amends the existing accounting standards for leases. Adoption of new standards may require changes to our processes, accounting systems, and internal controls. Difficulties encountered during adoption could result in internal control deficiencies or delay the reporting of our financial results. In addition, the passing of the Act in December 2017 caused us to significantly increase our provision for income taxes, which had a material adverse effect on our net income for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018. Further interpretations of the Act from the government and regulatory organizations may change our tax expense provided for our transitional tax liability and deferred tax adjustments as well as our provision liability or accounting treatment of the provisional liability which may potentially affect the measurement of these balances or potentially give rise to new deferred tax amounts.
