KLA-Tencor Corporation is a leading supplier of process control and yield management solutions for the semiconductor and related nanoelectronics industries. Our broad portfolio of inspection and metrology products, and related service, software and other offerings primarily supports integrated circuit (“IC” or “chip”) manufacturers throughout the entire semiconductor fabrication process, from research and development to final volume production. We provide leading edge equipment, software and support that enable IC manufacturers to identify, resolve and manage significant advanced technology manufacturing process challenges and obtain higher finished product yields at lower overall cost. In addition to serving the semiconductor industry, we also provide a range of technology solutions to a number of other high technology industries, including advanced packaging, light emitting diode (“LED”), power devices, compound semiconductor, and data storage industries, as well as general materials research.
spending on our products and services. Although capital spending in all three semiconductor markets has historically been very cyclical, the demand for more advanced and lower cost chips used in a growing number of consumer electronics, communications, data processing, and industrial and automotive products has resulted over the long term in a favorable demand environment for our process control and yield management solutions, particularly in the foundry and logic markets, which have higher levels of process control adoption than the memory market. 
As we are a supplier to the global semiconductor and semiconductor-related industries, our customer base continues to become more highly concentrated over time, thereby increasing the potential impact of a sudden change in capital spending by a major customer on our revenues and profitability. As our customer base becomes increasingly more concentrated, large orders from a relatively limited number of customers account for a substantial portion of our sales, which potentially exposes us to more volatility for revenues and earnings. In the global semiconductor related industries, China is emerging as a major region for manufacturing of logic and memory chips, adding to its role as the world’s largest consumer of ICs. Government initiatives are propelling China to expand its domestic manufacturing capacity and attracting semiconductor manufacturers from Taiwan, Korea, Japan and the US. China is currently seen as an important long-term growth region for the semiconductor capital equipment sector. We are also subject to the cyclical capital spending that has historically characterized the semiconductor and semiconductor-related industries. The timing, length, intensity and volatility of the capacity-oriented capital spending cycles of our customers are unpredictable. 
Proposed Merger with Orbotech, Ltd.
On March 18, 2018, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger Agreement”) with Orbotech, Ltd. (“Orbotech”) pursuant to which we would acquire Orbotech for $38.86 in cash and 0.25 of a share of our common stock in exchange for each ordinary share of Orbotech, which at the time of announcement valued Orbotech at $3.2 billion in enterprise value. The merger contemplated by the Merger Agreement (the “Orbotech Merger”) is subject to receipt of required regulatory approvals and satisfaction of the other customary closing conditions. We intend to fund the cash portion of the purchase price with cash from the combined company’s balance sheet. 
In addition, we announced a share repurchase authorization up to $2 billion. The share repurchase program is targeted to be completed within 12 to 18 months following the close of this transaction. We intend to raise approximately $1 billion in new long-term debt financing to complete the share repurchase.
For additional details, refer to Note 1 “Basis of Presentation” to the condensed consolidated financial statements for additional details, and Item 1A, “Risk Factors”.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
For a description of recent accounting pronouncements, including those recently adopted and the expected dates of adoption as well as estimated effects, if any, on our condensed consolidated financial statements of those not yet adopted, see Note 1, “Basis of Presentation” to the condensed consolidated financial statements for additional details.
On July 1, 2018, we adopted ASC 606 using the modified retrospective transition approach. Results for reporting periods beginning after July 1, 2018 are presented under the ASC 606, while prior period amounts are presented under legacy guidance. For additional details, refer to Note 2 “Revenue” to the condensed consolidated financial statements. 
Revenues and Gross Margin
The decrease in product revenues during the three months ended September 30, 2018 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2018 is primarily due to the changes related to the accounting of standard warranty services as a result of the adoption of ASC 606.
The increase in product revenues during the three months ended September 30, 2018 compared to the three months ended September 30, 2017 is primarily due to strong demand for our inspection products, and increased investments from our customers in China and Taiwan. This was partially offset by the changes related to the accounting of standard warranty services as a result of the adoption of ASC 606.
Service revenues during the three months ended September 30, 2018 increased compared to the three months ended June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017, primarily due to the inclusion of revenues from standard warranty services caused by the adoption of ASC 606, and an increase in the number of systems installed at our customers’ sites over that time period.
Revenues by region
A significant portion of our revenues continues to be generated in Asia, where a substantial portion of the world’s semiconductor manufacturing capacity is located, and we expect that trend to continue.
Gross margin
Our gross margin increased to 65.1% for three months ended September 30, 2018 from 64.7% during the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 63.5% during the three months ended September 30, 2017, respectively. The increase is primarily driven by the changes related to the accounting of standard warranty upon the adoption of ASC 606, a higher volume and a favorable mix of products and services sold. This was partially offset by higher services and manufacturing costs. 
Interest Expense and Other Expense (Income), Net
Other expense (income), net is comprised primarily of realized gains or losses on sales of marketable securities, gains or losses from revaluations of certain foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities as well as foreign currency contracts, impairment charges associated with equity investments in privately-held companies and any subsequent recoveries of impaired investments, and interest-related accruals (such as interest and penalty accruals related to our tax obligations) and interest income earned on our invested cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities.
The decrease in other expense (income), net during the three months ended September 30, 2018 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2018 was primarily due to increase in accruals related to uncertain tax positions of $0.8 million, and lower net foreign currency gains of $0.5 million
The increase in other expense (income), net during the three months ended September 30, 2018 compared to the three months ended September 30, 2017 was primarily due to an increases in interest income of $2.5 million and an increase in foreign currency gains of $2.0 million. Additionally, other expense (income), net for the three months ended September 30, 2017 included an impairment charge on an equity investment in a privately-held company of $1.0 million.
Provision for Income Taxes
The Act also includes provisions for GILTI wherein taxes on foreign income are imposed in excess of a deemed return on tangible assets of foreign corporations. This income will effectively be taxed at a 10.5% tax rate in general. As a result, our deferred tax assets and liabilities were evaluated if the deferred tax assets and liabilities should be recognized for the basis differences expected to reverse as a result of GILTI provisions that are effective for us after the fiscal year ending June 30, 2018, or should the tax on GILTI provisions be recognized in the period the Act was signed into law. We have elected to account for GILTI as a component of current period tax expense for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2019.
Our future effective income tax rate depends on various factors, such as tax legislation, the geographic composition of our pre-tax income, the amount of our pre-tax income as business activities fluctuate, non-deductible expenses incurred in connection with acquisitions, research and development credits as a percentage of aggregate pre-tax income, the domestic manufacturing deduction, non-taxable or non-deductible increases or decreases in the assets held within our Executive Deferred Savings Plan, the tax effects of employee stock activity and the effectiveness of our tax planning strategies.
As of September 30, 2018, our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaled $2.78 billion, which represents a decrease of $100.0 million from June 30, 2018. The decrease is mainly due to stock repurchases of $300.0 million, and cash used for payment of dividends and dividend equivalents of $122.8 million, partially offset by our cash generated from operations and net proceeds from marketable securities.
During the three months ended September 30, 2018, our Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.75 per share on our outstanding common stock, which was paid on August 31, 2018 to our stockholders of record as of the close of business on August 15, 2018. During the same period in fiscal year 2017, our Board of Directors declared and paid a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.59 per share on our outstanding common stock. The total amount of regular quarterly cash dividends and dividend equivalents paid during the three months ended September 30, 2018 was $119.9 million. The total amount of regular quarterly cash dividends and dividend equivalents paid during the three months ended September 30, 2017 was $94.1 million. The amount of accrued dividends payable for regular quarterly cash dividends on unvested restricted stock units with dividend equivalent rights as of September 30, 2018 and June 30, 2018 was $4.8 million and $6.7 million, respectively. These amounts will be paid upon vesting of the underlying unvested restricted stock units as described in Note 9, “Equity and Long-term Incentive Compensation Plans,” to the condensed consolidated financial statements.
On November 19, 2014, we declared a special cash dividend of $16.50 per share on our outstanding common stock which was paid on December 9, 2014 to our stockholders of record as of the close of business on December 1, 2014. The declaration and payment of the special cash dividend was part of our leveraged recapitalization transaction under which the special cash dividend was financed through a combination of existing cash and proceeds from the debt financing disclosed in Note 8, “Debt,” to the condensed consolidated financial statements that was completed during the three months ended December 31, 2014. As of the declaration date, the total amount of the special cash dividend accrued by us was approximately $2.76 billion, substantially all of which was paid out during the three months ended December 31, 2014, except for the aggregate special cash dividend of $43.0 million that was accrued for the unvested restricted stock units. As of September 30, 2018 and June 30, 2018, we had $37.5 thousand and $2.8 million, respectively, of accrued dividends payable for the special cash dividend with respect to outstanding unvested restricted stock units, which will be paid when such underlying unvested restricted stock units vest. During the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, the total special cash dividends paid with respect to vested restricted stock units were $2.8 million and $6.2 million, respectively. Other than the special cash dividend declared during the three months ended December 31, 2014, we historically have not declared any special cash dividends. 
The shares repurchased under our stock repurchase program have reduced our basic and diluted weighted-average shares outstanding for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017. The stock repurchase program is intended, in part, to offset shares issued in connection with the purchases under our ESPP program and the vesting of employee restricted stock units. 
In November 2014, we issued $2.50 billion aggregate principal amount of senior, unsecured long-term notes (collectively referred to as “Senior Notes”). We issued the Senior Notes as part of the leveraged recapitalization plan under which the proceeds from the Senior Notes in conjunction with the proceeds from the term loans (described below) and cash on hand were used (x) to fund a special cash dividend of $16.50 per share, aggregating to approximately $2.76 billion, (y) to redeem $750.0 million of Senior Notes, including associated redemption premiums, accrued interest and other fees and expenses and (z) for other general corporate purposes, including repurchases of shares pursuant to our stock repurchase program. 
The original discount on the Senior Notes amounted to $4.0 million and is being amortized over the life of the debt. Interest is payable semi-annually on May 1 and November 1 of each year. The debt indenture (the “Indenture”) includes covenants that limit our ability to grant liens on our facilities and enter into sale and leaseback transactions, subject to certain allowances under which certain sale and leaseback transactions are not restricted. As of September 30, 2018, we were in compliance with all of the covenants under the Indenture associated with the Senior Notes.
In November 2017, we entered into a Credit Agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) providing for a $750.0 million five-year unsecured Revolving Credit Facility (the “Revolving Credit Facility”), which replaced our prior Credit Facility. Subject to the terms of the Credit Agreement, the Revolving Credit Facility may be increased in an amount up to $250.0 million in the aggregate. 
We may borrow, repay and reborrow funds under the Revolving Credit Facility until its maturity on November 30, 2022 (the “Maturity Date”), at which time such Revolving Credit Facility will terminate, and all outstanding loans under such facility, together with all accrued and unpaid interest, must be repaid. We may prepay the outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility at any time without a prepayment penalty.
The Revolving Credit Facility requires us to maintain an interest expense coverage ratio as described in the Credit Agreement, on a quarterly basis, covering the trailing four consecutive fiscal quarters of no less than 3.50 to 1.00. In addition, we are required to maintain the maximum leverage ratio as described in the Credit Agreement, on a quarterly basis of 3.00 to 1.00, covering the trailing four consecutive fiscal quarters for each fiscal quarter, which can be increased to 4.00 to 1.00 for a period of time in connection with a material acquisition or a series of material acquisitions.
We were in compliance with the financial covenants under the Credit Agreement as of September 30, 2018 (the interest expense coverage ratio was 16.33 to 1.00 and the leverage ratio was 1.25 to 1.00) had no outstanding borrowings under the unfunded Revolving Credit Facility. Considering our current liquidity position, short-term financial forecasts and ability to prepay the Revolving Credit Facility, if necessary, we expect to continue to be in compliance with our financial covenants for the second quarter of our fiscal year ending June 30, 2019.
We have adopted a cash-based long-term incentive (“Cash LTI”) program for many of our employees as part of our employee compensation program. Cash LTI awards issued to employees under the Cash Long-Term Incentive Plan (“Cash LTI Plan”) generally vest in three or four equal installments, with one-third or one-fourth of the aggregate amount of the Cash LTI award vesting on each anniversary of the grant date over a three or four-year period. In order to receive payments under the Cash LTI Plan, participants must remain employed by us as of the applicable award vesting date. For additional details, refer to Note 9, “Equity and Long-term Incentive Compensation Plans,” to the condensed consolidated financial statements.
We have agreements with financial institutions to sell certain of our trade receivables and promissory notes from customers without recourse. In addition, we periodically sell certain letters of credit (“LCs”), without recourse, received from customers in payment for goods and services.
Factoring and LC fees for the sale of certain trade receivables were recorded in other expense (income), net and were not material for the periods presented. 
We maintain guarantee arrangements available through various financial institutions for up to $22.0 million, of which $15.5 million had been issued as of September 30, 2018, primarily to fund guarantees to customs authorities for VAT and other operating requirements of our subsidiaries in Europe and Asia. 
Working capital was $3.21 billion as of September 30, 2018, which is a decrease of $120.8 million compared to our working capital of $3.33 billion as of June 30, 2018. As of September 30, 2018, our principal sources of liquidity consisted of $2.78 billion of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. Our liquidity may be affected by many factors, some of which are based on the normal ongoing operations of the business, spending for business acquisitions including the pending acquisition of Orbotech, and other factors such as uncertainty in the global and regional economies and the semiconductor equipment industries. Although cash requirements will fluctuate based on the timing and extent of these factors, we believe that cash generated from operations, together with the liquidity provided by existing cash and cash equivalents balances and our $750.0 million Revolving Credit Facility, will be sufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements associated with working capital needs, capital expenditures, cash dividends, stock repurchases and other contractual obligations, including repayment of outstanding debt, for at least the next 12 months. 
In October 2014, we entered into a series of forward contracts (“Rate Lock Agreements”) to lock the benchmark rate on a portion of the Senior Notes. The Rate Lock Agreements had a notional amount of $1.00 billion in aggregate which matured in the second quarter of the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015. The Rate Lock Agreements were terminated on the date of pricing of the $1.25 billion of 4.650% Senior Notes due in 2024 and we recorded the fair value of $7.5 million as a gain within accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) as of December 31, 2014. We recognized $0.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018 for the amortization of the gain recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), which amount reduced the interest expense. As of September 30, 2018, the unamortized portion of the fair value of the forward contracts for the rate lock agreements was $4.6 million. 
In addition, we may in limited circumstances enter into agreements that contain customer-specific commitments on pricing, tool reliability, spare parts stocking levels, service response time and other commitments. Furthermore, we may give these customers limited audit or inspection rights to enable them to confirm that we are complying with these commitments. If a customer elects to exercise its audit or inspection rights, we may be required to expend significant resources to support the audit or inspection, as well as to defend or settle any dispute with a customer that could potentially arise out of such audit or inspection. To date, we have made no significant accruals in our condensed consolidated financial statements for this contingency. While we have not in the past incurred significant expenses for resolving disputes regarding these types of commitments, we cannot make any assurance that we will not incur any such liabilities in the future.
Equity Repurchase Plans
