fls.txt
Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made.


item1.txt
All material intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
The condensed consolidated financial statements included herein are unaudited.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America have been included.
In accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission Release No.
On January 1, 2019, we adopted Topic 842 using the updated modified retrospective transition approach allowed under ASU 2018-11 and did not restate prior periods.
have a material impact on our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flow for the nine months ended September 30, 2019, nor did it have any impact on our compliance with debt covenants.
The adoption of Topic 842 provided various optional practical expedients in transition, some of which we have elected.
The accounting for finance leases (formerly referred to as “capital leases”) remains substantially unchanged.
Refer to Note 15 herein for further details regarding the impact of the adoption of Topic 842 and other information related to our lease portfolio.
Net sales by geographic area are based on the customer location to which the product is shipped.
and markets a broad range of connector and connector systems, value-add products and other products, including antennas and sensors, used in a broad range of applications in a diverse set of end markets.
Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests is classified below net income.
In addition, the equity attributable to noncontrolling interests is presented as a separate caption within equity.
January 24, 2019 (the “2017 Stock Repurchase Program”) in accordance with the requirements of Rule 10b-18 of the Exchange Act.
The Company has been named as a defendant in several legal actions arising from normal business activities.
Stock-based compensation expense includes the estimated effects of forfeitures, which are adjusted over the requisite service period to the extent actual forfeitures differ or are expected to differ from such estimates.
No additional stock options will be granted under the 2009 Employee Option Plan.
The 2004 Directors Option Plan expired in May 2014, except that its terms continue with respect to any outstanding options granted thereunder.
Options were last granted under the 2004 Directors Option Plan in May 2011. under the 2004 Directors Option Plan are fully vested and are generally exercisable over a period of ten years from the date of grant.
The grant-date fair value of each option grant under the 2009 Employee Option Plan, the 2017 Employee Option Plan and the 2004 Directors Option Plan is estimated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
Use of a valuation model for option grants requires management to make certain assumptions with respect to selected model inputs.
The average expected life is based on the contractual term of the option and expected exercise and historical experience.
The risk-free interest rate is based on U.S. Treasury zero-coupon issuances with a remaining term equal to the expected life assumed at the date of grant.
The expected annual dividend per share is based on the Company’s dividend rate.
This voluntary cash contribution made in the first quarter of 2018 was reflected as cash used in operating activities within Net change in accrued pension and postretirement benefits in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flow.
Participation in these plans is based on certain eligibility requirements.


item2.txt



item3.txt
The Company does not have any significant concentration with any one counterparty.


item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
Item 1.


