fls.txt
Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made.


item1.txt
All material intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
The condensed consolidated financial statements included herein are unaudited.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America have been included.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the “FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) (“ASU 2014-09”, and collectively with its related subsequent amendments, “Topic 606”).
Topic 606 supersedes previous revenue recognition guidance and requires entities to recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for such goods or services.
For a nominal portion of our contracts where the accounting did change, the adoption of Topic 606 resulted in an increase to the opening balance of retained earnings of approximately $3.2 as of January 1, 2018.
For these such contracts, we now recognize revenue over time as control of the goods transfers, rather than when the goods are delivered, and title, risk and reward of ownership are passed to the customer, as under previous guidance.
The adoption of Topic 606 did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements as of the adoption date and as of and for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
Refer to Note 3 herein for further discussion regarding revenue recognition and related policies.
For leases with a term of twelve months or less, ASU 2016‑02 permits an entity to make an accounting policy election to recognize such leases as lease expense, generally on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
The stranded tax effects result from the remeasurement of net deferred tax positions that were originally recorded in comprehensive income but whose remeasurement was reflected in the income statement in 2017.
ASU 2018-02 only applies to the effects of the Tax Act and is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2018, with early adoption permitted.
The Company is currently evaluating ASU 2018-02, and we currently anticipate that ASU 2018-02 will not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
For each contract, the promise to transfer the control of the products, each of which is individually distinct, is considered to be the identified performance obligation.
Our contracts do not have any significant financing components, as payment terms are generally due net 30 to 120 days after delivery.
Although products are almost always sold at fixed prices, in determining the transaction price, we evaluate whether the price is subject to refund (due to returns) or adjustment (due to volume discounts, rebates, or price concessions) to determine the net consideration we expect to be entitled to.
We allocate the transaction price to each distinct product based on its relative standalone selling price.
Taxes assessed by governmental authorities and collected from the customer are not included in the transaction price.
Based on the respective contract terms, most of our contracts’ revenues are recognized either (i) upon shipment based on free on board (“FOB”) shipping point, (ii) when the product arrives at its destination or (iii) when the products are pulled from consignment inventory.
This method reasonably depicts when and as control of the goods transfers to the customer, since it measures our progress in producing the goods which is generally commensurate with this transfer of control.
The reserve is recorded as a reduction to revenue in the same period that the related revenue is recorded and is calculated based on an analysis of historical claims and returns over a period of time to appropriately account for current pricing and business trends.
Similarly, sales returns and allowances are recorded based on historical return rates, as a reduction to revenue with a corresponding reduction to cost of sales for the estimated cost of inventory that is expected to be returned.
These reserves were not significant upon the adoption of Topic 606 nor were they significant in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of March 31, 2018.
Standard product warranty coverage which provides assurance that our products will conform to the contractually agreed-upon specifications for a limited period from the date of shipment is typically offered, while extended or separately-priced warranty coverage is typically not offered.
The warranty claim is generally limited to a credit equal to the purchase price or a promise to repair or replace the product for a specified period of time at no additional charge.


item2.txt



item3.txt
The Company may borrow under its Revolving Credit Facility and Commercial Paper Program.


item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
Item 1.


