fls.txt
Forward-looking statements by their nature address matters that are, to different degrees, uncertain, such as statements about expected earnings, revenues, growth, liquidity or other financial matters.


item1.txt
The condensed consolidated balance sheets as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the related condensed consolidated statements of income and condensed consolidated statements of comprehensive income for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, and the related condensed consolidated statements of cash flow for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 include the accounts of Amphenol Corporation and its subsidiaries (“Amphenol”, the “Company”, “we”, “our”, or “us”).
All material intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
The condensed consolidated financial statements included herein are unaudited.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America have been included.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the “FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) (“ASU 2014-09”, and collectively with its related subsequent amendments, “Topic 606”).
Topic 606 supersedes previous revenue recognition guidance and requires entities to recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for such goods or services.
For a nominal portion of our contracts where the accounting did change, the adoption of Topic 606 resulted in an increase to the opening balance of retained earnings of approximately $3.2 as of January 1, 2018.
For these contracts, we now recognize revenue over time as control of the goods transfers, rather than when the goods are delivered, and title, risk and reward of ownership are passed to the customer, as under previous guidance.
The adoption of Topic 606 did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements as of the adoption date and as of and for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018.
Refer to Note 3 herein for further discussion regarding revenue recognition and related policies.
disclosure purposes, while we continue to review and implement the necessary changes to our existing policies, processes and controls to ensure compliance.
ASU 2016-02 also provides various optional practical expedients in transition, which we continue to evaluate.
The Securities and Exchange Commission has also recently issued several final rules, including but not limited to SEC Final Rule Release No.
33-10532 Disclosure Update and Simplification (“Final Rule”), which amends certain redundant, duplicative, outdated, superseded or overlapping disclosure requirements.
This Final Rule is intended to facilitate disclosure information provided to investors and simplify compliance without significantly impacting the mix of information provided to investors.
The amendments also expand the disclosure requirements regarding the analysis of stockholders' equity for interim financial statements, in which entities will be required to present a reconciliation for each period for which a statement of comprehensive income is required to be filed.
For each contract, the promise to transfer the control of the products, each of which is individually distinct, is considered to be the identified performance obligation.
Our contracts do not have any significant financing components, as payment terms are generally due net 30 to 120 days after delivery.
Although products are almost always sold at fixed prices, in determining the transaction price, we evaluate whether the price is subject to refund (due to returns) or adjustment (due to volume discounts, rebates, or price concessions) to determine the net consideration we expect to be entitled to.
We allocate the transaction price to each distinct product based on its relative standalone selling price.
Based on the respective contract terms, most of our contracts’ revenues are recognized either (i) upon shipment based on free on board (“FOB”) shipping point, (ii) when the product arrives at its destination or (iii) when the product is pulled from consignment inventory.
This method reasonably depicts when and as control of the goods transfers to the customer, since it measures our progress in producing the goods, which is generally commensurate with this transfer of control.
The Company maintains a reserve for unprocessed and estimated future price adjustment claims and returns as a refund liability.
reserve is recorded as a reduction to revenue in the same period that the related revenue is recorded and is calculated based on an analysis of historical claims and returns over a period of time to appropriately account for current pricing and business trends.
These reserves were not significant upon the adoption of Topic 606 nor were they significant in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of September 30, 2018.


item2.txt



item3.txt
The Company does not have any significant concentration with any one counterparty.


item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
Item 1.


