fls.txt
Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made.


item1.txt
The condensed consolidated financial statements included herein are unaudited.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America have been included.
of Cash Flow for the three months ended March 31, 2019, nor did it have any impact on our compliance with debt covenants.
The adoption of Topic 842 provided various optional practical expedients in transition, some of which we have elected.
Going forward, the impact of Topic 842 on the Company’s consolidated financial statements will be dependent upon the Company’s lease portfolio.
The accounting for finance leases (formerly referred to as “capital leases”) remains substantially unchanged.
It is generally expected that a substantial portion of our remaining performance obligations will be fulfilled within three months, and nearly all of our performance obligations are part of contracts that have original durations of one year or less.
Net sales by geographic area are based on the customer location to which the product is shipped.
Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests is classified below net income.
Earnings per share is determined after the impact of the noncontrolling interests’ share in net income of the Company.
In addition, the equity attributable to noncontrolling interests is presented as a separate caption within equity.
On January 24, 2017, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program under which the Company could purchase up to $1,000.0 of the Company’s Common Stock during the two-year period ending January 24, 2019 (the “2017 Stock Repurchase Program”) in accordance with the requirements of Rule 10b-18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).
On April 24, 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized a new stock repurchase program under which the Company may purchase up to $2,000.0 of the Company’s Common Stock during the three-year period ending April 24, 2021 in accordance with the requirements of Rule 10b-18 of the Exchange Act (the “2018 Stock Repurchase Program”).
Of the total repurchases during the first quarter of 2019, approximately 1.0 million shares, or $87.6, have been retained in Treasury stock; the remaining 0.8 million shares, or $72.4, have been retired by the Company.
The Company has been named as a defendant in several legal actions arising from normal business activities.
Stock-based compensation expense includes the estimated effects of forfeitures, which are adjusted over the requisite service period to the extent actual forfeitures differ or are expected to differ from such estimates.
A committee of the Company’s Board of Directors has been authorized to grant stock options pursuant to the 2017 Employee Option Plan.
As of March 31, 2019, there were 16,982,040 shares of Common Stock available for the granting of additional stock options under the 2017 Employee Option Plan.
No additional stock options will be granted under the 2009 Employee Option Plan.
The 2004 Directors Option Plan expired in May 2014, except that its terms continue with respect to any outstanding options granted thereunder.
Options were last granted under the 2004 Directors Option Plan in May 2011.
The grant-date fair value of each share grant is determined based on the closing share price of the Company’s Common Stock on the date of the grant.
Use of a valuation model for option grants requires management to make certain assumptions with respect to selected model inputs.
The average expected life is based on the contractual term of the option and expected exercise and historical post-vesting termination experience.
The risk-free interest rate is based on U.S. Treasury zero-coupon issuances with a remaining term equal to the expected life assumed at the date of grant.
The expected annual dividend per share is based on the Company’s dividend rate.


item2.txt



item3.txt
The Company does not have any significant concentration with any one counterparty.


item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
Item 1.


