fls.txt
Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made.


item1.txt
All material intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
The condensed consolidated financial statements included herein are unaudited.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America have been included.
In accordance with the adoption of the Securities and Exchange Commission Final Rule Release No.
Previously, the rollforward of consolidated changes in equity was presented only for the six months ended June 30, 2018.
In 2018, the Company implemented a new lease management system that facilitated the adoption of this standard and enabled the Company to fulfill its requirements for both reporting and disclosure purposes, as well as to better manage and monitor the Company’s ongoing lease portfolio.
On January 1, 2019, we adopted Topic 842 using the updated modified retrospective transition approach allowed under ASU 2018-11 and did not restate prior periods.
lease commitments, and there was no cumulative impact on retained earnings as of January 1, 2019.
The adoption of Topic 842 provided various optional practical expedients in transition, some of which we have elected.
The accounting for finance leases (formerly referred to as “capital leases”) remains substantially unchanged.
Refer to Note 15 herein for further details regarding the impact of the adoption of Topic 842 and other information related to our lease portfolio.
It is generally expected that a substantial portion of our remaining performance obligations will be fulfilled within three months, and nearly all of our performance obligations are part of contracts that have original durations of one year or less.
Net sales by geographic area are based on the customer location to which the product is shipped.
and markets a broad range of connector and connector systems, value-add products and other products, including antennas and sensors, used in a broad range of applications in a diverse set of end markets.
Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests is classified below net income.
In addition, the equity attributable to noncontrolling interests is presented as a separate caption within equity.
Excluded from the computations above were anti-dilutive common shares of 7.7 million and 1.5 million for the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
As of June 30, 2019, there were 10,920,560 shares of Common Stock available for the granting of additional stock options under the 2017 Employee Option Plan.
No additional stock options will be granted under the 2009 Employee Option Plan.
The 2004 Directors Option Plan expired in May 2014, except that its terms continue with respect to any outstanding options granted thereunder.
Options were last granted under the 2004 Directors Option Plan in May 2011.
Options granted under the 2004 Directors Option Plan are fully vested and are generally exercisable over a period of ten years from the date of grant.
As of June 30, 2019, the total compensation cost related to non-vested options not yet recognized was approximately $181.5 with a weighted average expected amortization period of 3.74 years.
The grant-date fair value of each option grant under the 2009 Employee Option Plan, the 2017 Employee Option Plan and the 2004 Directors Option Plan is estimated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
Use of a valuation model for option grants requires management to make certain assumptions with respect to selected model inputs.
Expected share price volatility is calculated based on the historical volatility of the Common Stock and implied volatility derived from related exchange traded options.


item2.txt



item3.txt
The Company does not have any significant concentration with any one counterparty.


item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
Item 1.


