fls.txt



item1.txt
Net foreign currency transaction and remeasurement losses totaled $0.6 million and $0.7 million, respectively, during the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, and $3.1 million and $1.6 million, respectively, during the nine months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017.
Foreign exchange contract assets and liabilities are measured and reported at fair value based on observable market inputs and classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy described below due to a lack of an active market for these contracts.
As of June 30, 2018, the Company had no assets or liabilities measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis using Level 3 inputs.
In March 2018, the FASB issued Accounting Standard Update (“ASU”) 2018-02, Reclassification of Certain Tax Effects from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income, an amendment of the FASB Accounting Standards Codification.
The Company expects to adopt the guidance during the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 and is evaluating the effect that ASU 2018-02 will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
For leases with a term of twelve months or less, a lessee is permitted to make an accounting policy election by class of underlying assets to forgo a recognition of right-of-use assets and corresponding lease liabilities and record a lease expense on a straight-line basis.
Entities should determine at the inception of the arrangement whether a contract represents a lease or contains a lease which is defined as a right to control the use of identified property for a period of time in exchange for consideration.
Additionally, entities should separate the lease components from the non-lease components and allocate the contract consideration on a relative standalone price basis in accordance with provisions of ASC Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
The guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2018 and should be adopted via a modified retrospective approach with certain optional practical expedients that entities may elect to apply.
The new guidance introduces a new "expected loss" impairment model that applies to most financial assets measured at amortized cost and certain other instruments, including trade and other receivables, loans, held-to-maturity debt securities and other financial assets.
Entities are required to estimate expected credit losses over the life of financial assets and record an allowance against the assets’ amortized cost basis to present the assets at the amount expected to be collected.
Additionally, the guidance amends the impairment model for available for sale debt securities and requires entities to determine whether all or a portion of the unrealized loss on such debt security is a credit loss.
The guidance provides for the recognition of revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services.
The Company will adopt this standard effective October 1, 2018, using the modified retrospective method and will only apply this method to contracts that are not completed as of the effective date and all new contracts initiated on or after the effective date.
The Company has established an implementation team to assist with its assessment of the impact of the new revenue guidance on its operations, consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
The implementation team is also responsible for evaluating and designing the necessary changes to the Company’s business processes, policies, systems and controls to support recognition and disclosure under the new guidance.


item2.txt
This section provides an analysis of our financial results for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018 compared to the three and nine months ended June 30, 2017.
This Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q contains statements that are, or may be considered to be, forward-looking statements within the meaning of The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Our leadership position and global support structure in each of these markets makes us a valued business partner to some of the world’s largest semiconductor capital equipment and device makers as well as pharmaceutical and life science companies and research institutions in the world.
In the life sciences sample management market, we utilize our core competencies and capabilities in automation and cryogenics to provide comprehensive bio-sample management solutions to a broad range of end markets within the life sciences industry.
In October 2017, we acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of 4titude Limited, or 4titude, a U.K.-based manufacturer of scientific consumables for biological sample materials used in a variety of genomic and DNA analytical applications, for a total purchase price of $65.1 million, net of cash acquired.
Please refer to Note 4, “Acquisitions” in the Notes to the unaudited consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 "Consolidated Financial Statements" of this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q for further information on these transactions.
Results of Operations- Revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2018 increased to $223.5 million, or by 23%, as compared to the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.
Gross margin was 39.9% for the third quarter of fiscal year 2018 as compared to 39.4% for the third quarter of fiscal year 2017, which resulted in an increase in gross profit of $17.7 million.
Operating expenses were $62.5 million during the third quarter of fiscal year 2018 as compared to $52.8 million during the third quarter of fiscal year 2017, an increase of $9.7 million.
Net income was $22.6 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018 as compared to $17.4 million for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.
The increase of $5.3 million was primarily attributable to the increase in operating income of $7.9 million, partially offset by an increase in net non-operating expenses of $3.0 million compared to the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year, primarily related to interest expense on the term loan and lower income from equity method investments of $1.2 million.
Results of Operations- Revenue for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 increased to $620.1 million, or by 21%, as compared to the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.


item3.txt
A hypothetical 100 basis point change in interest rates would result in a $1.5 million change in interest expense incurred during the nine months ended June 30, 2018.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Risk Factors in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10‑K.


