fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet as of September 30, 2017 was derived from the audited annual consolidated financial statements as of the period then ended.
Foreign exchange contract assets and liabilities are measured and reported at fair value based on observable market inputs and classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy due to a lack of an active market for these contracts.
As of December 31, 2017, the Company had no assets or liabilities measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis using Level 3 inputs.
In March 2016, the FASB issued an amendment to the accounting guidance to simplify accounting for share-based payment awards issued to employees.
Additionally, the entity can make an accounting policy election to either estimate the number of awards that are expected to vest, consistent with the current accounting guidance, or account for forfeitures as they occur.
The amendment clarifies the requirements for assessing whether contingent call (put) options that can accelerate the payment of principal on debt instruments are clearly and closely related to the debt host contracts.
An entity performing the assessment in accordance with this guidance is required to assess the embedded call (put) options solely in accordance with the four-step decision process set forth in the guidance.
For finance leases, interest on a lease liability should be recognized separately from the amortization of the right-of-use asset, while for operating leases, total lease costs are recorded on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
For leases with a term of twelve months or less, a lessee is permitted to make an accounting policy election by class of underlying assets to forgo a recognition of right-of-use assets and corresponding lease liabilities and record a lease expense on a straight-line basis.
Entities should determine at the inception of the arrangement whether a contract represents a lease or contains a lease which is defined as a right to control the use of identified property for a period of time in exchange for consideration.
Additionally, entities should separate the lease components from the non-lease components and allocate the contract consideration on a relative standalone price basis in accordance with provisions of ASC Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
The new guidance introduces a new "expected loss" impairment model that applies to most financial assets measured at amortized cost and certain other instruments, including trade and other receivables, loans, held-to-maturity debt securities and other financial assets.
Entities are required to estimate expected credit losses over the life of financial assets and record an allowance against the assets’ amortized cost basis to present them at the amount expected to be collected.
Additionally, the guidance amends the impairment model for available for sale debt securities and requires entities to determine whether all or a portion of the unrealized loss on such debt security is a credit loss.
The guidance provides for the recognition of revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services.
Based on the preliminary assessment, the Company anticipates that the new guidance will impact the timing of revenue recognition for a portion of its life science revenue which is currently accounted for under a percentage of completion method.


item2.txt
This Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q contains statements that are, or may be considered to be, forward-looking statements within the meaning of The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Our leadership position and global support structure in each of these markets makes us a valued business partner to the some of the world’s largest semiconductor capital equipment and device makers, as well as pharmaceutical and life science research institutions in the world.
In the life sciences sample management market, we utilize our core competencies and capabilities in automation and cryogenics to provide comprehensive bio-sample management solutions to a broad range of end markets within the life sciences industry.
In October 2017, we acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of 4titude Limited, or 4titude, a U.K.-based manufacturer of scientific consumables for biological sample materials used in a variety of genomic and DNA analytical applications, for a total purchase price of $65.2 million, net of cash acquired.
Please refer to Note 4, “Acquisitions” in the Notes to the unaudited consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 "Consolidated Financial Statements" of this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q for further information on this transaction.
Results of Operations- Revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2017 increased to $189.3 million, or by 18%, as compared to the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.
Gross margin was 39.7% for the first quarter of fiscal year 2018 as compared to 35.6% for the first quarter of fiscal year 2017, which resulted in an increase in gross profit of $18.3 million.
Operating expenses were $54.4 million during the first quarter of fiscal year 2018 as compared to $43.8 million during the first quarter of fiscal year 2017, an increase of $10.6 million.
The increase of $2.6 million was primarily attributable to the increase in operating income of $7.7 million, as noted above, partically offset by the impact of non-operating expenses which reduced net income by $5.3 million compared to the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.
Cash Flows and Liquidity- Cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities were $231.9 million at December 31, 2017 as compared to $104.3 million at September 30, 2017.
The increase in cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities of $127.6 million was primarily attributable to cash inflows of $197.6 million related to proceeds from the term loan and cash inflows of $3.2 million generated from our operating activities, partially offset by cash outflows related to acquisition payments of $65.1 million, dividend payments of $7.1 million made to our shareholders during the first quarter of fiscal year 2018, as well as capital expenditures of $2.7 million.
Cash inflows of $3.2 million generated from operating activities during the three months ended December 31, 2017 were comprised primarily of earnings of $27.1 million, including net income of $16.5 million and the impact of non-cash related charges of $10.6 million, partially offset by uses of cash of $23.9 million related to the changes in our operating assests and liabilities, net of acquisitions.


item3.txt
A hypothetical 100 basis point change in interest rates would result in a $0.5 million change in interest expense incurred during the three months ended December 31, 2017.


item4.txt



part2.txt
We are subject to various legal proceedings, both asserted and unasserted, that arise in the ordinary course of business.


