fls.txt



item1.txt
Net foreign currency transaction and remeasurement losses totaled $0.5 million and $0.4 million, respectively, during the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 and $2.5 million and $1.0 million, respectively, during the six months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017.
Foreign exchange contract assets and liabilities are measured and reported at fair value based on observable market inputs and classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy due to a lack of an active market for these contracts.
As of March 31, 2018, the Company had no assets or liabilities measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis using Level 3 inputs.
For finance leases, interest on a lease liability should be recognized separately from the amortization of the right-of-use asset, while for operating leases, total lease costs are recorded on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Entities should determine at the inception of the arrangement whether a contract represents a lease or contains a lease which is defined as a right to control the use of identified property for a period of time in exchange for consideration.
Additionally, entities should separate the lease components from the non-lease components and allocate the contract consideration on a relative standalone price basis in accordance with provisions of ASC Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
The guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2018 and should be adopted via a modified retrospective approach with certain optional practical expedients that entities may elect to apply.
The new guidance introduces a new "expected loss" impairment model that applies to most financial assets measured at amortized cost and certain other instruments, including trade and other receivables, loans, held-to-maturity debt securities and other financial assets.
Entities are required to estimate expected credit losses over the life of financial assets and record an allowance against the assets’ amortized cost basis to present them at the amount expected to be collected.
Additionally, the guidance amends the impairment model for available for sale debt securities and requires entities to determine whether all or a portion of the unrealized loss on such debt security is a credit loss.
The guidance provides for the recognition of revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services.
Based on the preliminary assessment, the Company anticipates that the new guidance will impact the timing of revenue recognition for a portion of its life science revenue which is currently accounted for under the percentage of completion method.
The Company may be required to recognize revenue for a portion of these arrangements at the point in time it satisfies performance obligations by transferring control over promised deliverables to customers in accordance with the contractual terms of each arrangement.
For further information with regard to the Company’s Significant Accounting Policies, please refer to Note 2 "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" to the Company’s consolidated financial statements included in the 2017 Annual Report on Form 10‑K.
The Company invests in marketable securities that are classified as available-for-sale and records them at fair value in the Company’s unaudited Consolidated Balance Sheets.


item2.txt
This section provides an analysis of our financial results for the three and six months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the three and six months ended March 31, 2017.
This Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q contains statements that are, or may be considered to be, forward-looking statements within the meaning of The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Our leadership position and global support structure in each of these markets makes us a valued business partner to the some of the world’s largest semiconductor capital equipment and device makers, as well as pharmaceutical and life science research institutions in the world.
In the life sciences sample management market, we utilize our core competencies and capabilities in automation and cryogenics to provide comprehensive bio-sample management solutions to a broad range of end markets within the life sciences industry.
In October 2017, we acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of 4titude Limited, or 4titude, a U.K.-based manufacturer of scientific consumables for biological sample materials used in a variety of genomic and DNA analytical applications, for a total purchase price of $65.1 million, net of cash acquired.
Please refer to Note 4, “Acquisitions” in the Notes to the unaudited consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 "Consolidated Financial Statements" of this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q for further information on this transaction.
Gross margin was 40.6% for the second quarter of fiscal year 2018 as compared to 38.1% for the second quarter of fiscal year 2017, which resulted in an increase in gross profit of $19.7 million.
Operating expenses were $60.4 million during the second quarter of fiscal year 2018 as compared to $49.7 million during the second quarter of fiscal year 2017, an increase of $10.7 million.
Net income was $67.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 as compared to $14.0 million for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.
The increase of $53.0 million was primarily attributable to the decrease in income taxes of $47.3 million driven by the substantial release of the tax valuation allowance of $46.2 million and an increase in operating income of $9.0 million, as noted above.
These increases were partially offset by higher non-operating expenses of $1.9 million compared to the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year, primarily related to interest expense on the term loan and lower net income from equity method investments of $1.4 million.
Results of Operations- Revenue for the six months ended March 31, 2018 increased to $396.6 million, or by 20%, as compared to the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.
Gross margin was 40.2% for the six months ended March 31, 2018 as compared to 36.9% for the six months ended March 31, 2017, which resulted in an increase in gross profit of $38.0 million.


item3.txt
A hypothetical 100 basis point change in interest rates would result in a $0.5 million change in interest expense incurred during the six months ended March 31, 2018.


item4.txt



part2.txt
We are subject to various legal proceedings, both asserted and unasserted, that arise in the ordinary course of business.


