item1.txt
Adopting ASU 2016-02 had a material impact on our consolidated balance sheet as of January 1, 2019, as we recognized $121.6 million of lease liabilities and $113.4 million of right-of-use ("ROU") assets for those leases classified as operating leases.
Except for the accounting policy added for leases below as a result of adopting ASU 2016-02, there have been no changes to our significant accounting policies described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, filed with the SEC on February 20, 2019, that have had a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
Operating leases are included in operating lease ROU assets, accrued expense and other current liabilities, and operating lease liabilities, net of current portion in our consolidated balance sheet as of September 30, 2019.
ROU assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
Operating lease ROU assets and liabilities are recognized at the lease commencement date based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term.
As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments.
The operating lease ROU asset also includes any initial direct costs and lease payments made and excludes lease incentives.
Lease expense for lease payments related to our operating leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
We do not recognize short-term leases (those that, at the commencement date, have a lease term of 12 months or less) on our consolidated balance sheets.
Variable lease payments, which are primarily comprised of common-area maintenance, utilities and real estate taxes that are passed on from the lessor in proportion to the space leased by us, are recognized in operating expenses in the period in which the obligation for those payments is incurred.
The operating results of YourCause have been included in our consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition.
The estimated fair value of accounts receivable acquired approximates the contractual value of $4.1 million and $54.7 million of the goodwill arising in the acquisition is deductible for income tax purposes.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2019, we recorded insignificant measurement period adjustments to the estimated fair value of the YourCause assets acquired and liabilities assumed following the receipt of new information.
The estimated fair values of the intangible assets were based on variations of the income approach, which estimates fair value based upon the present value of cash flows that the assets are expected to generate, and which included the relief-from-royalty method, incremental cash flow method, including the comparative (with and without) method and multi-period excess earnings method, depending on the intangible asset being valued.
Our derivative instruments that are recorded at fair value include interest rate swaps.
We did not transfer any assets or liabilities among the levels within the fair value hierarchy during the nine months ended September 30, 2019.
Assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis include intangible assets, goodwill and operating lease ROU assets, which are recognized at fair value during the period in which an acquisition is completed or at lease commencement, from updated estimates and assumptions during the measurement period, or when they are considered to be impaired.
These non-recurring fair value measurements, primarily for intangible assets acquired and operating lease ROU assets, are based on Level 3 unobservable inputs.
In the event of an impairment, we determine the fair value of the intangible assets other than goodwill using a discounted cash flow approach, which contains significant unobservable inputs and, therefore, is considered a Level 3 fair value measurement.
For goodwill impairment testing, we estimate fair value using market-based methods including the use of market capitalization and consideration of a control premium.
There were no non-recurring fair value adjustments to intangible assets and goodwill during the nine months ended September 30, 2019, except for insignificant business combination accounting adjustments to the initial fair value estimates of the YourCause assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date from updated information obtained during the measurement period.
We record any measurement period adjustments to the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, with the corresponding offset to goodwill.
Upon adoption of ASU 2016-02 at January 1, 2019, we recognized lease liabilities for our operating leases.
In July 2017, we entered into an interest rate swap agreement (the "July 2017 Swap Agreement"), which effectively converts portions of our variable rate debt under the 2017 Credit Facility to a fixed rate for the term of the July 2017 Swap Agreement.
In February 2018, we entered into an additional interest rate swap agreement (the "February 2018 Swap Agreement"), which effectively converts portions of our variable rate debt under the 2017 Credit Facility to a fixed rate for the term of the February 2018 Swap Agreement.
The notional value of the February 2018 Swap Agreement was $50.0 million with an effective date beginning in February 2018 through June 2021.
In June 2019, we entered into an additional interest rate swap agreement (the "June 2019 Swap Agreement"), which effectively converts portions of our variable rate debt under the 2017 Credit Facility to a fixed rate for the term of the June 2019 Swap Agreement.
We do not have lease agreements with residual value guarantees, sale leaseback terms or material restrictive covenants.
The lease agreement expires in April 2038 and provides for four renewal periods of five years each at a base rent equal to the then prevailing market rate for comparable buildings.
For each of the leases discussed above, we have not included the renewal options in the lease terms for calculating the lease liability as the renewal options allow us to maintain operational flexibility and we are not reasonably certain we will exercise these options at this time.
The increase in deferred revenue during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 was primarily due to new subscription sales of our cloud-based solutions and a seasonal increase in customer contract renewals.
The amount of revenue recognized during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 that was included in the deferred revenue balance at the beginning of the period was approximately $271 million.
Upon adoption of ASU 2016-02 at January 1, 2019, we reduced our operating lease ROU assets recognized at transition by the carrying amounts of the restructuring liabilities for certain leased office spaces that we ceased using prior to December 31, 2018.
Upon adoption of ASU 2016-02 at January 1, 2019, we reduced our operating lease ROU assets recognized at transition by the carrying amounts of the restructuring liabilities for certain leased office spaces that we ceased using prior to December 31, 2018.


item2.txt
This year marks an important milestone in that process as the structural transformation in sales is now largely complete, enabling our account executives to focus on leading with total solution selling by vertical, driving more products per customer, higher ASPs and overall increased customer lifetime value.
The increases in total revenue during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, when compared to the same periods in 2018, were primarily driven by growth in recurring revenue as we continue to see positive demand from customers across our portfolio of cloud-based solutions.
As expected, one-time services and other revenue declined $5.0 million and $14.3 million, respectively, during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 due to our continued shift in focus towards selling cloud-based subscription solutions.
Income from operations decreased during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, when compared to the same periods in 2018.
The positive impact of growth in total revenue driven by recurring subscriptions was offset primarily by investments we are making in our sales organization and innovation, which we expect to continue for the remainder of 2019.
Increases in employee severance of $1.9 million, amortization of intangible assets from business combinations of $1.8 million and rent expense of $1.7 million, also negatively impacted income from operations during the nine months ended September 30, 2019.
The increases in stock-based compensation expense were primarily driven by an increase in the grant date fair value of our annual equity awards granted to employees during the first quarter of 2019, when compared to the grant date fair value of the awards granted during the same period in 2018.
The increase in rent expense during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 was primarily associated with the lease for our New Headquarters Facility in Charleston, South Carolina, which commenced in April 2018.
We anticipate a continued decrease in maintenance contract renewals as we transition our solution portfolio and maintenance customers from a perpetual license-based model to a cloud-based subscription delivery model.
In the long term, we also anticipate an increase in recurring subscription contract renewals as we continue focusing on innovation, quality and the integration of our cloud-based solutions, which we believe will provide value-adding capabilities to better address our customers' needs.
Due primarily to these factors, we believe a recurring revenue customer retention measure that combines recurring subscription, maintenance and service customer contracts provides a better representation of our customers' overall behavior.
For the twelve months ended September 30, 2019, approximately 92% of our customers with recurring revenue contracts were retained.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2019, we generated $122.1 million in cash from operations, had a net increase in our borrowings of $115.6 million, which was primarily used to finance the acquisition of YourCause, returned $17.7 million to stockholders by way of dividends and had aggregate cash outlays of $44.1 million for purchases of property and equipment and capitalized software development costs.
Recurring revenue is comprised of fees for the use of our subscription-based software solutions, which includes providing access to cloud-based solutions, hosting services, online training programs, subscription-based analytic services, such as donor acquisitions and data enrichment, and payment services.
Recurring revenue also includes fees from maintenance services for our on-premises solutions, services included in our renewable subscription contracts, subscription-based contracts for retained services and variable transaction revenue associated with the use of our solutions.
We continue to experience growth in sales of our cloud-based solutions as we meet the demand of our customers that increasingly prefer cloud-based subscription offerings with integrated analytics, training and payment services.
We intend to continue focusing on innovation, quality and integration of our cloud-based solutions, which we believe will drive future revenue growth.
The increases in recurring revenue during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, when compared to the same periods in 2018, were primarily due to positive demand across our portfolio of cloud-based solutions as revenue from subscriptions increased $21.2 million and $63.3 million, respectively.
We also saw increases in revenue from subscription-based retained services as well as services embedded in our renewable cloud-based solution contracts.
These favorable impacts from subscriptions were partially offset by decreases in maintenance revenue of $4.6 million and $13.8 million, respectively during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, when compared to the same periods in 2018.
These continued decreases in maintenance revenue were primarily related to our ongoing efforts to migrate customers from legacy on-premises solutions onto our solutions powered by Blackbaud SKY, our modern cloud platform.
Cost of one-time services and other decreased during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, when compared to the same periods in 2018, primarily due to a decrease in compensation costs of $3.8 million and $10.2 million, respectively, which is in line with the ongoing shift in our go-to-market strategy as discussed above as an increasing portion of our resources are now providing subscription-based retained services as opposed to one-time.
One-time services and other gross margin increased during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, when compared to the same periods in 2018, as the reductions in costs of one-time services and other discussed above outpaced the declines in one-time consulting revenue and higher margin analytics revenue associated with the shift in our go-to-market strategy.
The increases in sales, marketing and customer success expense in dollars and as a percentage of total revenue during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, when compared to the same periods in 2018, were primarily due to increases in compensation costs of $4.4 million and $15.7 million, respectively and increases in allocations of depreciation, facilities and IT support costs of $1.3 million and $5.0 million, respectively.
Also contributing to the increase in sales, marketing and customer success expense during the nine months ended September 30, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018, was an increase in commissions expense of $2.2 million.
The increases in general and administrative expense during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, when compared to the same periods in 2018, were primarily due to increases in compensation costs of $5.4 million and $8.9 million, respectively.
Also contributing to the increase in general and administrative expense during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 was rent expense of $1.6 million.
Restructuring costs incurred during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 consisted primarily of operating lease ROU asset impairment costs and, to a lesser extent, lease payments for offices we have ceased using and write-offs of facilities-related fixed assets that we will no longer use.
The increases in interest expense in dollars and as a percentage of total revenue during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, when compared to the same periods in 2018, were primarily due to increases in our average daily borrowings related to our acquisition of YourCause in January 2019.
Deferred revenue from recurring revenue contracts increased during the nine months ended September 30, 2019, primarily due to new subscription sales of our cloud-based solutions and a seasonal increase in customer contract renewals.
Our acquisition of YourCause on January 2, 2019 also modestly contributed to the increase in deferred revenue from recurring revenue contracts since December 31, 2018.
Deferred revenue from one-time services and other increased during the nine months ended September 30, 2019, primarily due to a seasonal increase in advance registration billings associated with our bbcon user conference, which occurs each year in October.
The increases in our effective income tax rate during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, when compared to the same periods in 2018, were primarily due to a decrease in the discrete benefit to income tax expense relating to stock-based compensation.
In accordance with GAAP reporting requirements, we recorded write-downs of deferred revenue under arrangements predating the acquisition to fair value, which resulted in lower recognized revenue than the contributed purchase price until the related obligations to provide services under such arrangements are fulfilled.
The non-GAAP measures described below reverse the acquisition-related deferred revenue write-downs so that the full amount of revenue booked by the acquired companies is included, which we believe provides a more accurate representation of a revenue run-rate in a given period and, therefore, will provide more meaningful comparative results in future periods.
Each of these measures of non-GAAP organic revenue growth excludes incremental acquisition-related revenue attributable to companies acquired in the current fiscal year.
For companies, if any, acquired in the immediately preceding fiscal year, each of these non-GAAP organic revenue growth measures reflects presentation of full year incremental non-GAAP revenue derived from such companies as if they were combined throughout the prior period, and they include the non-GAAP revenue attributable to those companies, as if there were no acquisition-related write-downs of acquired deferred revenue to fair value as required by GAAP.
Cash flow from operations associated with working capital decreased $6.8 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to an increase in the amount of deferred revenue recognized slightly outpacing customer billings and an increase in the collection of customer account balances in 2018 from an aging improvement initiative.
Net cash used in investing activities of $153.0 million increased by $68.1 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2019, we used net cash of $109.4 million, for our acquisition of YourCause, compared to $45.3 million spent on similar investments during the same period in 2018.
The increase in cash outlays for software development costs was primarily related to our innovative cloud-based solutions, as well as development activities for Blackbaud SKY, our modern cloud platform.
We also spent $9.6 million of cash for purchases of property and equipment during the nine months ended September 30, 2019, which was down $3.3 million from cash spent during the same period in 2018.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2019, we had a net increase in borrowings of $115.6 million, which was primarily used to finance our acquisition of YourCause.
We paid $20.3 million to satisfy tax obligations of employees upon settlement or exercise of equity awards during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 compared to $27.4 million during the same period in 2018.
In addition, during the nine months ended September 30, 2019, we paid dividends of $17.7 million, which was relatively consistent with the comparable period of 2018.
Cash used in financing activities associated with changes in restricted cash due to customers increased $209.3 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 when compared to the same period in 2018, as the amount of restricted cash held and payable by us to customers as of December 31, 2017 was significantly larger than at the same date in 2018.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2019, foreign translation resulted in a decrease in our revenues and expenses denominated in non-U.S. currencies.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2019, the fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates reduced our total revenue by $5.2 million and our income from operations by $1.1 million.
To determine the impacts on revenue (or income from operations) from fluctuations in currency exchange rates, current period revenues (or income from operations) from entities reporting in foreign currencies were translated into U.S. dollars using the comparable prior year period's weighted average foreign currency exchange rates.


