item1.txt
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) ("ASU 2014-09"), which outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers.
The primary impacts of adopting ASU 2014-09 relate to the deferral of incremental commission and other costs of obtaining contracts with customers and the increase to the amortization period for those costs.
Previously, we deferred only direct and incremental commission costs to obtain a contract and amortized those costs over the contract term, generally three years, as the revenue was recognized.
Except for the accounting policies for revenue recognition and deferred commissions (herein referred to as "costs of obtaining contracts") that were updated as a result of adopting ASU 2014-09, there have been no changes to our significant accounting policies described in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed with the SEC on February 20, 2018, that have had a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
Recurring revenue represents stand-ready performance obligations in which we are making our solutions or services available to our customers continuously over time or the value of the contract renews.
Therefore, recurring revenue is generally recognized over time on a ratable basis over the contract term, beginning on the date that the solution or service is made available to the customer.
Our recurring revenue contracts are generally for a term of three years at contract inception with one to three-year renewals thereafter, billed annually in advance and non-cancelable.
Recurring revenue is comprised of fees for the use of our subscription-based software solutions, which includes providing access to cloud-based solutions, hosting services, online training programs, subscription-based analytic services, such as donor acquisitions and data enrichment, and payment services.
Recurring revenue also includes fees from maintenance services for our on-premises solutions, services included in our renewable subscription contracts, subscription-based contracts for professional services and variable transaction revenue associated with the use of our solutions.
In general, when we are the principal in a transaction based on the factors identified in ASC 606-10-55-36 through 55-40, we record the revenue and related costs on a gross basis.
For payment and transaction services, we have the right to invoice the customer in an amount that directly corresponds with the value to the customer of our performance to date.
Therefore, we recognize revenue for these services over time based on the amount billable to the customer in accordance with the 'as invoiced' practical expedient in ASC 606-10-55-18.
The estimated fair value of accounts receivable acquired approximates the contractual value of $1.1 million and $11.8 million of the goodwill arising in the acquisition is deductible for income tax purposes.
The estimated fair values of the intangible assets were based on variations of the income approach, which estimates fair value based upon the present value of cash flows that the assets are expected to generate, and which included the relief-from-royalty method, incremental cash flow method, including the comparative (with and without) method and multi-period excess earnings method, depending on the intangible asset being valued.
Our derivative instruments that are recorded at fair value include interest rate swaps.
We believe the carrying amounts of our cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash due to customers, accounts receivable, trade accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities and due to customers approximate their fair values at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, due to the immediate or short-term maturity of these instruments.
We did not transfer any assets or liabilities among the levels within the fair value hierarchy during the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
Assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis include intangible assets and goodwill, which are recognized at fair value during the period in which an acquisition is completed, from updated estimates and assumptions during the measurement period, or when they are considered to be impaired.
These non-recurring fair value measurements, primarily for intangible assets acquired, are based on Level 3 unobservable inputs.
In the event of an impairment, we determine the fair value of the intangible assets other than goodwill using a discounted cash flow approach, which contains significant unobservable inputs and, therefore, is considered a Level 3 fair value measurement.
There were no non-recurring fair value adjustments to intangible assets and goodwill during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, except for an insignificant business combination accounting adjustment to the initial fair value estimates of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date from updated information obtained during the measurement period.
We record any measurement period adjustments to the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, with the corresponding offset to goodwill.
The notional value of the instrument was £100.0 million with an effective date beginning in June 2017 and maturing in September 2017.
The decrease in our effective income tax rate during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017, was primarily due to the impact of the discrete benefit to income tax expense relating to stock-based compensation items, calculated prior to the impact of the U.S. federal corporate tax rate change as a result of the Tax Act. This favorable impact was attributable to an increase in the market price for shares of our common stock, as reported by the Nasdaq Stock Market LLC ("Nasdaq"), as well as an increase in the number of stock awards that vested and were exercised.
The discrete benefit to income tax expense relating to stock-based compensation during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 was reduced as a result of the decrease in the U.S. corporate tax rate.
We also applied the practical expedient in ASC 606-10-65-1-(f)(3), whereby the transaction price allocated to the remaining performance obligations, or an explanation of when we expect to recognize that amount as revenue for all reporting periods presented before the date of the initial application, is not disclosed.
Blackbaud, Inc. Contract assets increased during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 primarily as a result of incremental revenue recognized in excess of amounts billed.
The increase in deferred revenue during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was primarily due to new subscription sales of our cloud-based solutions and a seasonal increase in customer contract renewals.
The amount of revenue recognized during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 that was included in the deferred revenue balance at the beginning of the period was approximately $259 million.
The amount of revenue recognized during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 from performance obligations satisfied in prior periods was insignificant.


item2.txt
Our sales account executives now lead with a total-solution selling strategy by vertical, focused on recurring revenue and driving more products per customer, higher ASP's, and increased customer retention over the long-term.
The increases in total revenue during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, when compared to the same periods in 2017, were primarily driven by growth in recurring revenue as we continue to see positive demand from customers across our portfolio of cloud-based solutions.
One-time services and other revenue declined during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 due to our continued shift in focus towards selling cloud-based subscription solutions.
The positive impact of growth in total revenue driven by recurring subscriptions was offset primarily by investments we are making in our sales organization and innovation, which we expect to continue in the fourth quarter of 2018 and beyond, and to a lesser extent, increases in amortization of intangible assets from business combinations of $1.2 million and $3.3 million, respectively.
Also contributing to the decline in income from operations during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 were increases in stock-based compensation of $4.6 million, restructuring costs of $3.6 million and net acquisition-related costs of $0.8 million.
In the long term, we also anticipate an increase in recurring subscription contract renewals as we continue focusing on innovation, quality and the integration of our cloud-based solutions, which we believe will provide value-adding capabilities to better address our customers' needs.
Due primarily to these factors, we believe a recurring revenue customer retention measure that combines recurring subscription, maintenance and service customer contracts provides an accurate representation of our customers' overall behavior.
For the twelve months ended September 30, 2018, approximately 92% of our customers with recurring revenue contracts were retained.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we generated $137.8 million in cash flow from operations, had a net decrease in our borrowings of $13.3 million, inclusive of the incremental borrowings needed to finance the acquisition of Reeher, returned $17.5 million to stockholders by way of dividends and had aggregate cash outlays of $39.5 million for purchases of property and equipment and capitalized software development costs.
Recurring revenue is comprised of fees for the use of our subscription-based software solutions, which includes providing access to cloud-based solutions, hosting services, online training programs, subscription-based analytic services, such as donor acquisitions and data enrichment, and payment services.
Recurring revenue also includes fees from maintenance services for our on-premises solutions, services included in our renewable subscription contracts, subscription-based contracts for professional services and variable transaction revenue associated with the use of our solutions.
We continue to experience growth in sales of our cloud-based solutions as we meet the demand of our customers that increasingly prefer cloud-based subscription offerings with integrated analytic, training and payment services.
We intend to continue focusing on innovation, quality and integration of our cloud-based solutions, which we believe will drive future revenue growth.
The increases in recurring revenue during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, when compared to the same periods in 2017, were primarily due to positive demand across our portfolio of cloud-based solutions as revenue from subscriptions increased $26.4 million and $84.2 million, respectively.
The inclusion of JustGiving and Reeher also contributed to the increases in recurring revenue and their impacts are expected to remain modest in the near term due to U.K. market conditions and our acquisition-related integration efforts.
The favorable impacts from subscriptions were partially offset by decreases in maintenance revenue of $5.2 million and $15.9 million, respectively, during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, when compared to the same periods in 2017.
The decreases in maintenance revenue were primarily related to our ongoing efforts to migrate of our existing customer base from on-premises solutions onto our solutions powered by Blackbaud SKY, our modern cloud platform.
The increase in cost of recurring revenue during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017, was primarily due to an increase in transaction-based costs of $9.0 million directly related to an increase in transactional revenue.
Also contributing to the increase in cost of recurring revenue were increases in data center costs of $5.3 million, allocations of depreciation, facilities and IT support costs of $2.3 million, amortization of software development costs of $2.5 million and compensation costs, driven by resource additions that are directly related to generating recurring revenue.
The inclusion of JustGiving and Reeher also contributed to the increases in costs of recurring revenue during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 when compared to the same periods in 2017.
The decrease in recurring gross margin for the three months ended September 30, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017, was primarily the result of incremental data center costs and, to a lesser extent, incremental amortization of software development costs, as growth in costs of recurring revenue outpaced the growth in related revenue.
Cost of one-time services and other decreased during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, when compared to the same periods in 2017, primarily due to decreases in compensation costs, which is in line with the ongoing shift in our go-to-market strategy as discussed above.
One-time services and other gross margin decreased during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, when compared to the same periods in 2017, as the declines in higher margin analytics and license fees revenue associated with the shift in our go-to-market strategy outpaced the reductions in costs of one-time services and other discussed above.
The increase in sales, marketing and customer success expense in dollars and as a percentage of total revenue during the three months ended September 30, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017, was primarily due to increases in compensation costs of $2.2 million and commissions expense of $2.1 million.
The increase in sales, marketing and customer success expense in dollars and as a percentage of total revenue during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017, was primarily due to increases in compensation costs of $6.9 million, commissions expense of $5.0 million, and advertising and marketing costs of $2.1 million.
The increases in research and development expense dollars during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, when compared to the same periods in 2017, were primarily due to increases in compensation costs of $1.8 million and $5.6 million, respectively, and third-party contractor expenses of $1.9 million and $5.1 million, respectively.
The increase in general and administrative expense in dollars during the three months ended September 30, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017, was primarily due to an increase in third-party contractor expenses of $1.3 million.
The increase in general and administrative expense in dollars and as a percentage of total revenue during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017, was primarily due to increases in compensation costs of $4.3 million, third-party contractor expenses of $3.6 million, and net acquisition-related costs of $0.8 million.
Interest expense increased during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, when compared to the same periods in 2017, primarily due to increases in our average daily borrowings related to our acquisitions of JustGiving in October 2017 and Reeher in April 2018.
Deferred revenue from recurring revenue contracts increased during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, primarily due to new subscription sales of our cloud-based solutions and a seasonal increase in customer contract renewals.
Deferred revenue from one-time services and other increased during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, primarily due to a seasonal increase in advance registration billings associated with our bbcon user conference, which occurs each year in October.
In accordance with GAAP reporting requirements, we recorded write-downs of deferred revenue from customer arrangements predating the acquisition to fair value, which resulted in lower recorded deferred revenue as of the acquisition date than the actual amounts paid in advance for solutions and services under those customer arrangements.
The decrease in our effective income tax rate during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017, was primarily due to the impact of the discrete benefit to income tax expense relating to stock-based compensation items, calculated prior to the impact of the U.S. federal corporate tax rate change as a result of the Tax Act. This favorable impact was attributable to an increase in the market price for shares of our common stock, as reported by Nasdaq, as well as an increase in the number of stock awards that vested and were exercised.
This discrete benefit to income tax expense relating to stock-based compensation during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 was reduced as a result of the decrease in the U.S. corporate tax rate.
In accordance with GAAP reporting requirements, we recorded write-downs of deferred revenue under arrangements predating the acquisition to fair value, which resulted in lower recognized revenue than the contributed purchase price until the related obligations to provide services under such arrangements are fulfilled.
The non-GAAP measures described below reverse the acquisition-related deferred revenue write-downs so that the full amount of revenue booked by the acquired companies is included, which we believe provides a more accurate representation of a revenue run-rate in a given period and, therefore, will provide more meaningful comparative results in future periods.
For companies, if any, acquired in the immediately preceding fiscal year, each of these non-GAAP organic revenue growth measures reflects presentation of full year incremental non-GAAP revenue derived from such companies as if they were combined throughout the prior period, and they include the non-GAAP revenue attributable to those companies, as if there were no acquisition-related write-downs of acquired deferred revenue to fair value as required by GAAP.
Our revenue from payment services has historically increased during the fourth quarter due to year-end giving.
Our cash flow from operations normally fluctuates quarterly due to the combination of the timing of customer contract renewals including renewals associated with customers of acquired companies, delivery of professional services and occurrence of customer events, the payment of bonuses, as well as merit-based salary increases, among other factors.
Historically, due to lower revenues in our first quarter, combined with the payment of bonuses from the prior year in our first quarter, our cash flow from operations has been lowest in our first quarter, and due to the timing of customer contract renewals, many of which take place at or near the beginning of our third quarter, our cash flow from operations has been lower in our second quarter as compared to our third and fourth quarters.
Cash flow from operations associated with working capital increased $9.3 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017, primarily due to an increase in the collection of customer account balances.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we used net cash of $45.3 million, primarily for our acquisition of Reeher, while we made a similar investment during the same period in 2017 with our acquisition of AcademicWorks.
The increase in cash outlays for software development costs was primarily driven by development activities related to our cloud-based solutions as well as development activities for Blackbaud SKY, our modern cloud platform.
We paid $27.4 million to satisfy tax obligations of employees upon settlement or exercise of equity awards during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 compared to $19.1 million during the same period in 2017.
In addition, during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we paid dividends of $17.5 million, which was relatively consistent with the comparable period of 2017.
Cash used in financing activities associated with changes in restricted cash due to customers increased $211.0 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 when compared to the same period in 2017, as the amount of restricted cash held and payable by us to customers as of December 31, 2017 was significantly larger than at the same date in 2016.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, foreign translation resulted in an increase in our revenues and expenses denominated in non-U.S. currencies.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2018, the fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates increased our total revenue by $3.3 million and our income from operations by $0.7 million.
To determine the impacts on revenue (or income from operations) from fluctuations in currency exchange rates, current period revenues (or income from operations) from entities reporting in foreign currencies were translated into U.S. dollars using the comparable prior year period's weighted average foreign currency exchange rates.


