item1.txt
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) ("ASU 2014-09"), which outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers.
The primary impacts of adopting ASU 2014-09 relate to the deferral of incremental commission and other costs of obtaining contracts with customers and the increase to the amortization period for those costs.
Previously, we deferred only direct and incremental commission costs to obtain a contract and amortized those costs over the contract term, generally three years, as the revenue was recognized.
Under the new standard, we defer all incremental commission and related fringe benefit costs to obtain a contract and amortize these costs in a manner that aligns with the expected period of benefit.
Except for the accounting policies for revenue recognition and deferred commissions (herein referred to as "costs of obtaining contracts") that were updated as a result of adopting ASU 2014-09, there have been no changes to our significant accounting policies described in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed with the SEC on February 20, 2018, that have had a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
Recurring revenue represents stand-ready performance obligations in which we are making our solutions or services available to our customers continuously over time or the value of the contract renews.
Therefore, recurring revenue is generally recognized over time on a ratable basis over the contract term, beginning on the date that the solution or service is made available to the customer.
Our recurring revenue contracts are generally for a term of three years at contract inception with one to three-year renewals thereafter, billed annually in advance and non-cancelable.
Recurring revenue is comprised of fees for the use of our subscription-based software solutions, which includes providing access to cloud-based solutions, hosting services, online training programs, subscription-based analytic services, such as donor acquisitions and data enrichment, and payment services.
Recurring revenue also includes fees from maintenance services for our on-premises solutions, services included in our renewable subscription contracts, subscription-based contracts for professional services and variable transaction revenue associated with the use of our solutions.
In general, when we are the principal in a transaction based on the factors identified in ASC 606-10-55-36 through 55-40, we record the revenue and related costs on a gross basis.
Therefore, we recognize revenue for these services over time based on the amount billable to the customer in accordance with the 'as invoiced' practical expedient in ASC 606-10-55-18.
We are currently evaluating the extent of the impact and expect that most of our lease commitments will be subject to the updated guidance and recognized as lease liabilities and right-of-use assets on our consolidated balance sheets upon adoption.
During the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, we incurred insignificant acquisition-related expenses associated with the acquisition, which were recorded in general and administrative expense.
The estimated fair values of the intangible assets were based on variations of the income approach, which estimates fair value based upon the present value of cash flows that the assets are expected to generate, and which included the relief-from-royalty method, incremental cash flow method, including the comparative (with and without) method and multi-period excess earnings method, depending on the intangible asset being valued.
Our derivative instruments that are recorded at fair value include interest rate swaps.
We believe the carrying amounts of our cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash due to customers, accounts receivable, trade accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities and due to customers approximate their fair values at June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, due to the immediate or short-term maturity of these instruments.
We did not transfer any assets or liabilities among the levels within the fair value hierarchy during the six months ended June 30, 2018.
Assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis include intangible assets and goodwill, which are recognized at fair value during the period in which an acquisition is completed, from updated estimates and assumptions during the measurement period, or when they are considered to be impaired.
These non-recurring fair value measurements, primarily for intangible assets acquired, are based on Level 3 unobservable inputs.
In the event of an impairment, we determine the fair value of the goodwill and intangible assets using a discounted cash flow approach, which contains significant unobservable inputs and, therefore, is considered a Level 3 fair value measurement.
There were no non-recurring fair value adjustments to intangible assets and goodwill during the six months ended June 30, 2018, except for an insignificant business combination accounting adjustment to the initial fair value estimates of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date from updated information obtained during the measurement period.
We record any measurement period adjustments to the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, with the corresponding offset to goodwill.
The notional value of the February 2018 Swap Agreement was $50.0 million with an effective date beginning in February 2018 through June 2021.
The decreases in our effective income tax rates during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, when compared to the same periods in 2017, were primarily due to the impact of the discrete benefit to income tax expense relating to stock-based compensation items, calculated prior to the impact of the U.S. federal corporate tax rate change as a result of the Tax Act. This favorable impact was attributable to an increase in the market price for shares of our common stock, as reported by the Nasdaq Stock Market LLC ("Nasdaq"), as well as an increase in the number of stock awards that vested and were exercised.
This discrete benefit to income tax expense relating to stock-based compensation during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 was reduced as a result of the decrease in the U.S. corporate tax rate.
We also applied the practical expedient in ASC 606-10-65-1-(f)(3), whereby the transaction price allocated to the remaining performance obligations, or an explanation of when we expect to recognize that amount as revenue for all reporting periods presented before the date of the initial application, is not disclosed.
Blackbaud, Inc. Contract assets increased during the six months ended June 30, 2018 primarily as a result of incremental revenue recognized in excess of amounts billed.
The increase in deferred revenue during the six months ended June 30, 2018 was primarily due to new subscription sales of our cloud-based solutions and a seasonal increase in customer contract renewals.
The amount of revenue recognized during the six months ended June 30, 2018 that was included in the deferred revenue balance at the beginning of the period was approximately $217 million.
The amount of revenue recognized during the six months ended June 30, 2018 from performance obligations satisfied in prior periods was insignificant.


item2.txt
The increases in total revenue during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, when compared to the same periods in 2017, were primarily driven by growth in recurring revenue as we continue to see strong demand from customers across our portfolio of cloud-based solutions.
One-time services and other revenue declined during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 due to our continued shift in focus towards selling cloud-based subscription solutions.
Income from operations decreased during the three months ended June 30, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017.
The positive impact of growth in total revenue driven by recurring subscriptions was offset primarily by investments we are making in our sales organization, which we expect will increase in the second half of 2018, and customer success program and, to a lesser extent, increases in restructuring costs of $3.7 million, stock-based compensation expense of $3.0 million, net acquisition-related expenses and integration costs of $1.6 million and amortization of intangible assets from business combinations of $1.1 million.
In the long term, we also anticipate an increase in recurring subscription contract renewals as we continue focusing on innovation, quality and the integration of our cloud-based solutions, which we believe will provide value-adding capabilities to better address our customers' needs.
Due primarily to these factors, we believe a recurring revenue customer retention measure that combines recurring subscription, maintenance and service customer contracts provides an accurate representation of our customers' overall behavior.
For the twelve months ended June 30, 2018, approximately 93% of our customers with recurring revenue contracts were retained.
In the near term, our recurring revenue customer retention rate may modestly decrease driven by our efforts to rationalize our portfolio of solutions and migrate customers from legacy solutions towards our next generation cloud-based solutions.
During the six months ended June 30, 2018, we generated $66.4 million in cash flow from operations, had a net increase in our borrowings of $41.4 million, primarily for the acquisition of Reeher, returned $11.7 million to stockholders by way of dividends and had aggregate cash outlays of $25.9 million for purchases of property and equipment and capitalized software development costs.
Recurring revenue is comprised of fees for the use of our subscription-based software solutions, which includes providing access to cloud-based solutions, hosting services, online training programs, subscription-based analytic services, such as donor acquisitions and data enrichment, and payment services.
Recurring revenue also includes fees from maintenance services for our on-premises solutions, services included in our renewable subscription contracts, subscription-based contracts for professional services and variable transaction revenue associated with the use of our solutions.
We continue to experience growth in sales of our cloud-based solutions as we meet the demand of our customers that increasingly prefer cloud-based subscription offerings with integrated analytic, training and payment services.
We intend to continue focusing on innovation, quality and integration of our cloud-based solutions, which we believe will drive future revenue growth.
The increases in recurring revenue during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, when compared to the same periods in 2017, were primarily due to strong demand across our portfolio of cloud-based solutions as revenue from subscriptions increased $31.6 million and $57.8 million, respectively.
The inclusion of JustGiving and Reeher also contributed to the increases in recurring revenue and are expected to remain modest in the near term due to U.K. market conditions and our acquisition-related integration efforts.
The favorable impacts from subscriptions were partially offset by decreases in maintenance revenue of $5.2 million and $10.7 million, respectively, during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, when compared to the same periods in 2017.
The increases in cost of recurring revenue during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, when compared to the same periods in 2017, were primarily due to increases in transaction-based costs related to the payment services integrated in our cloud-based solutions of $4.5 million and $6.5 million, respectively, and compensation costs of $3.6 million and $8.8 million, respectively, driven by resource additions that are directly related to generating recurring revenue as well as the inclusion of JustGiving and Reeher.
The increase in recurring gross margin for the six months ended June 30, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017, was primarily the result of the positive economics of new and migrating customers to our next generation cloud-based solutions, a one-time third-party refund related to our integrated payment services and accretive recent business acquisitions, as growth in recurring revenue outpaced the growth in related costs.
Cost of one-time services and other decreased during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, when compared to the same periods in 2017, primarily due to decreases in compensation costs, which is in line with the ongoing shift in our go-to-market strategy as discussed above.
One-time services and other gross margin decreased during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, when compared to the same periods in 2017, as the declines in higher margin analytics and license fees revenue associated with the shift in our go-to-market strategy outpaced the reductions in costs of one-time services and other discussed above.
The increases in sales, marketing and customer success expense during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, when compared to the same periods in 2017, were primarily due to increases in compensation costs of $2.8 million and $4.6 million, respectively, commissions expense of $1.7 million and $2.9 million, respectively, and advertising and marketing costs of $0.8 million and $1.8 million, respectively.
The increases in general and administrative expense in dollars and as a percentage of total revenue during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, when compared to the same periods in 2017, were primarily due to increases in compensation costs of $2.1 million and $5.2 million, respectively, third-party contractor expenses of $1.8 million and $2.3 million, respectively, and acquisition-related integration costs of $2.2 million and $2.4 million, respectively.
Interest expense increased during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, when compared to the same periods in 2017, primarily due to increases in our average daily borrowings related to our acquisitions of JustGiving in October 2017 and Reeher in April 2018.
In accordance with GAAP reporting requirements, we recorded write-downs of deferred revenue from customer arrangements predating the acquisition to fair value, which resulted in lower recorded deferred revenue as of the acquisition date than the actual amounts paid in advance for solutions and services under those customer arrangements.
The decreases in our effective income tax rates during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, when compared to the same periods in 2017, were primarily due to the impact of the discrete benefit to income tax expense relating to stock-based compensation items, calculated prior to the impact of the U.S. federal corporate tax rate change as a result of the Tax Act. This favorable impact was attributable to an increase in the market price for shares of our common stock, as reported by the Nasdaq Stock Market LLC ("Nasdaq"), as well as an increase in the number of stock awards that vested and were exercised.
This discrete benefit to income tax expense relating to stock-based compensation during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 was reduced as a result of the decrease in the U.S. corporate tax rate.
In accordance with GAAP reporting requirements, we recorded write-downs of deferred revenue under arrangements predating the acquisition to fair value, which resulted in lower recognized revenue than the contributed purchase price until the related obligations to provide services under such arrangements are fulfilled.
The non-GAAP measures described below reverse the acquisition-related deferred revenue write-downs so that the full amount of revenue booked by the acquired companies is included, which we believe provides a more accurate representation of a revenue run-rate in a given period and, therefore, will provide more meaningful comparative results in future periods.
The increases in non-GAAP income from operations during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, when compared to the same periods in 2017, were primarily due to growth in recurring revenue that outpaced the related costs, partially offset by investments we are making in our sales organization, customer success program and solution development efforts, which are discussed above.
Each of these measures of non-GAAP organic revenue growth excludes incremental acquisition-related revenue attributable to companies acquired in the current fiscal year.
For companies, if any, acquired in the immediately preceding fiscal year, each of these non-GAAP organic revenue growth measures reflects presentation of full year incremental non-GAAP revenue derived from such companies as if they were combined throughout the prior period, and they include the non-GAAP revenue attributable to those companies, as if there were no acquisition-related write-downs of acquired deferred revenue to fair value as required by GAAP.
Our revenue from payment services has historically increased during the fourth quarter due to year-end giving.
Our cash flow from operations normally fluctuates quarterly due to the combination of the timing of customer contract renewals including renewals associated with customers of acquired companies, delivery of professional services and occurrence of customer events, the payment of bonuses, as well as merit-based salary increases, among other factors.
Historically, due to lower revenues in our first quarter, combined with the payment of bonuses from the prior year in our first quarter, our cash flow from operations has been lowest in our first quarter, and due to the timing of customer contract renewals, many of which take place at or near the beginning of our third quarter, our cash flow from operations has been lower in our second quarter as compared to our third and fourth quarters.
Cash flow from operations associated with working capital increased $2.6 million during the six months ended June 30, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017, primarily due to an increase in the collection of customer account balances, partially offset by the timing of vendor payments.
During the six months ended June 30, 2018, we used net cash of $45.3 million, primarily for our acquisition of Reeher, while we made a similar investment during the same period in 2017 with our acquisition of AcademicWorks.
The increase in cash outlays for software development costs was primarily driven by development activities related to our next generation cloud-based solutions, and development activities for Blackbaud SKY, our modern cloud platform.
During the six months ended June 30, 2018, we had a net increase in borrowings of $41.4 million, which was primarily used to finance the acquisition of Reeher.
We paid $25.2 million to satisfy tax obligations of employees upon settlement or exercise of equity awards during the six months ended June 30, 2018 compared to $16.6 million during the same period in 2017.
In addition, during the six months ended June 30, 2018, we paid dividends of $11.7 million, which was relatively consistent with the comparable period of 2017.
Cash used in financing activities associated with changes in restricted cash due to customers increased $223.6 million during the six months ended June 30, 2018 when compared to the same period in 2017, as the amount of restricted cash held and payable by us to customers as of December 31, 2017 was significantly larger than at the same date in 2016.
Approximately 15% of our total revenue for the six months ended June 30, 2018 was generated from operations outside the United States.
During the six months ended June 30, 2018, foreign translation resulted in an increase in our revenues and expenses denominated in non-U.S. currencies.
For the six months ended June 30, 2018, the fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates increased our total revenue by $3.8 million and our income from operations by $0.9 million.
To determine the impacts on revenue (or income from operations) from fluctuations in currency exchange rates, current period revenues (or income from operations) from entities reporting in foreign currencies were translated into U.S. dollars using the comparable prior year period's weighted average foreign currency exchange rates.


