item1.txt
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) ("ASU 2014-09"), which outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers.
ASU 2014-09 replaces most previous revenue recognition guidance in GAAP and requires the recognition of revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services.
The primary impacts of adopting ASU 2014-09 relate to the deferral of incremental commission and other costs of obtaining contracts with customers and the increase to the amortization period for those costs.
Previously, we deferred only direct and incremental commission costs to obtain a contract and amortized those costs over the contract term, generally three years, as the revenue was recognized.
Under the new standard, we defer all incremental commission and related fringe benefit costs to obtain a contract and amortize these costs in a manner that aligns with the expected period of benefit.
Except for the accounting policies for revenue recognition and deferred commissions (herein referred to as "costs of obtaining contracts") that were updated as a result of adopting ASU 2014-09, there have been no changes to our significant accounting policies described in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed with the SEC on February 20, 2018, that have had a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
Recurring revenue represents stand-ready performance obligations in which we are making our solutions or services available to our customers continuously over time or the value of the contract renews.
Therefore, recurring revenue is generally recognized over time on a ratable basis over the contract term, beginning on the date that the solution or service is made available to the customer.
Our recurring revenue contracts are generally for a term of three years at contract inception with one to three-year renewals thereafter, billed annually in advance and non-cancelable.
Recurring revenue is comprised of fees for the use of our subscription-based software solutions, which includes providing access to cloud-based solutions, hosting services, online training programs, subscription-based analytic services, such as donor acquisitions and data enrichment, and payment services.
Recurring revenue also includes fees from maintenance services for our on-premises solutions, services included in our renewable subscription contracts, subscription-based contracts for professional services and variable transaction revenue associated with the use of our solutions.
In general, when we are the principal in a transaction based on the factors identified in ASC 606-10-55-36 through 55-40, we record the revenue and related costs on a gross basis.
For payment and transaction services, we have the right to invoice the customer in an amount that directly corresponds with the value to the customer of our performance to date.
Therefore, we recognize revenue for these services over time based on the amount billable to the customer in accordance with the 'as invoiced' practical expedient in ASC 606-10-55-18.
Upon adoption, entities will be required to use a modified retrospective approach for leases that exist or are entered into after the beginning of the earliest comparative period in the financial statements.
Our derivative instruments that are recorded at fair value include interest rate swaps.
We did not transfer any assets or liabilities among the levels within the fair value hierarchy during the three months ended March 31, 2018.
Assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis include intangible assets and goodwill, which are recognized at fair value during the period in which an acquisition is completed, from updated estimates and assumptions during the measurement period, or when they are considered to be impaired.
These non-recurring fair value measurements, primarily for intangible assets acquired, are based on Level 3 unobservable inputs.
There were no non-recurring fair value adjustments to intangible assets and goodwill during the three months ended March 31, 2018, except for an insignificant business combination accounting adjustment to the initial fair value estimates of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date from updated information obtained during the measurement period.
We record any measurement period adjustments to the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, with the corresponding offset to goodwill.
The following table summarizes our debt balances and the related weighted average effective interest rates, which includes the effect of interest rate swap agreements.
The decrease in our effective income tax rate during the three months ended March 31, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017, was primarily due to the impact of the discrete benefit to income tax expense relating to stock-based compensation items, calculated prior to the impact of the U.S. federal corporate tax rate change as a result of the Tax Act. This favorable impact was attributable to an increase in the market price for shares of our common stock, as reported by the Nasdaq Stock Market LLC ("Nasdaq"), as well as an increase in the number of stock awards that vested and were exercised.
This discrete benefit to income tax expense relating to stock-based compensation during the three months ended March 31, 2018 was reduced as a result of the decrease in the U.S. corporate tax rate.
The decrease in our effective income tax rate during the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the same period in 2017, was also attributable to the impact of the lower U.S. federal corporate tax rate on pre-tax income.
We also applied the practical expedient in ASC 606-10-65-1-(f)(3), whereby the transaction price allocated to the remaining performance obligations, or an explanation of when we expect to recognize that amount as revenue for all reporting periods presented before the date of the initial application, is not disclosed.
The amount of revenue recognized during the first quarter of 2018 that was included in the deferred revenue balance at the beginning of the period was approximately $123 million.
The amount of revenue recognized during the first quarter of 2018 from performance obligations satisfied in prior periods was insignificant.
Due to the timing of the transaction, the initial accounting for this acquisition, including the measurement of assets acquired, liabilities assumed and goodwill, is not complete and is pending detailed analyses of the facts and circumstances that existed as of the April 30, 2018 acquisition date.


item2.txt
The increase in total revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017, was primarily driven by growth in recurring revenue as we continue to see strong demand from customers across our portfolio of cloud-based solutions.
One-time services and other revenue declined during the three months ended March 31, 2018 due to our continued shift in focus towards selling cloud-based subscription solutions.
Income from operations increased during the three months ended March 31, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017.
The positive impact of growth in total revenue driven by recurring subscriptions outpaced the related costs and was partially offset primarily by investments we are making in our sales organization and customer success program and, to a lesser extent, increases in amortization of intangible assets from business combinations of $1.1 million and restructuring costs of $0.8 million.
In the long term, we also anticipate an increase in recurring subscription contract renewals as we continue focusing on innovation, quality and the integration of our cloud-based solutions, which we believe will provide value-adding capabilities to better address our customers' needs.
Due primarily to these factors, we believe a recurring revenue customer retention measure that combines recurring subscription, maintenance and service customer contracts provides an accurate representation of our customers' overall behavior.
For the twelve months ended March 31, 2018, approximately 93% of our customers with recurring revenue contracts were retained.
In the near term, our recurring revenue customer retention rate may modestly decrease driven by our efforts to rationalize our portfolio of solutions and migrate customers from legacy solutions towards our next generation cloud-based solutions.
During the three months ended March 31, 2018, we generated $11.8 million in cash flow from operations, had a net increase in our borrowings of $28.8 million, returned $5.8 million to stockholders by way of dividends and had aggregate cash outlays of $12.9 million for purchases of property and equipment and capitalized software development costs.
Recurring revenue is comprised of fees for the use of our subscription-based software solutions, which includes providing access to cloud-based solutions, hosting services, online training programs, subscription-based analytic services, such as donor acquisitions and data enrichment, and payment services.
Recurring revenue also includes fees from maintenance services for our on-premises solutions, services included in our renewable subscription contracts, subscription-based contracts for professional services and variable transaction revenue associated with the use of our solutions.
We continue to experience growth in sales of our cloud-based solutions as we meet the demand of our customers that increasingly prefer cloud-based subscription offerings with integrated analytic, training and payment services.
We intend to continue focusing on innovation, quality and integration of our cloud-based solutions, which we believe will drive future revenue growth.
The increase in recurring revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017, was primarily due to strong demand across our portfolio of cloud-based solutions as revenue from subscriptions increased $26.2 million.
The favorable impact from subscriptions was partially offset by a $5.4 million decrease in maintenance revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017.
The increase in cost of recurring revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017, was primarily due to an increase in compensation costs of $4.2 million driven by resource additions that are directly related to generating recurring revenue as well as the inclusion of AcademicWorks and JustGiving.
Cost of one-time services and other decreased during the three months ended March 31, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017, primarily due to a decrease in compensation costs, which is in line with the ongoing shift in our go-to-market strategy as discussed above.
One-time services and other gross margin increased during the three months ended March 31, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017, primarily due to the declines in analytics and consulting revenue coupled with the larger reductions in costs of one-time services and other discussed above.
The increase in sales, marketing, and customer success expense during the three months ended March 31, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017, was primarily due to increases in compensation costs, commissions expense and advertising and marketing costs of $1.9 million, $1.1 million and $0.9 million, respectively.
Sales, marketing and customer success expense as a percentage of total revenue remained relatively unchanged during the three months ended March 31, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017.
The increases in general and administrative expense in dollars and as a percentage of total revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2018, when compared to the same periods in 2017, were primarily due to an increase compensation costs of $3.1 million.
Interest expense increased during the three and three months ended March 31, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017, primarily due to an increase in our average daily borrowings related to our acquisition of JustGiving in October 2017.
We generally invoice our customers with recurring revenue contracts in annual cycles 30 days prior to the end of the contract term.
Deferred revenue from recurring revenue contracts decreased during the three months ended March 31, 2018, primarily due to less billings for recurring revenue contracts.
Deferred revenue from one-time services and other remained relatively unchanged during the three months ended March 31, 2018.
In accordance with GAAP reporting requirements, we recorded write-downs of deferred revenue from customer arrangements predating the acquisition to fair value, which resulted in lower recorded deferred revenue as of the acquisition date than the actual amounts paid in advance for solutions and services under those customer arrangements.
The decrease in our effective income tax rate during the three months ended March 31, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017, was primarily due to the impact of the discrete benefit to income tax expense relating to stock-based compensation items, calculated prior to the impact of the U.S. federal corporate tax rate change as a result of the Tax Act. This favorable impact was attributable to an increase in the market price for shares of our common stock, as reported by Nasdaq, as well as an increase in the number of stock awards that vested and were exercised.
This discrete benefit to income tax expense relating to stock-based compensation during the three months ended March 31, 2018 was reduced as a result of the decrease in the U.S. corporate tax rate.
The decrease in our effective income tax rate during the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the same period in 2017, was also attributable to the impact of the lower U.S. federal corporate tax rate on pre-tax income.
In accordance with GAAP reporting requirements, we recorded write-downs of deferred revenue under arrangements predating the acquisition to fair value, which resulted in lower recognized revenue than the contributed purchase price until the related obligations to provide services under such arrangements are fulfilled.
The non-GAAP measures described below reverse the acquisition-related deferred revenue write-downs so that the full amount of revenue booked by the acquired companies is included, which we believe provides a more accurate representation of a revenue run-rate in a given period and, therefore, will provide more meaningful comparative results in future periods.
The increases in non-GAAP income from operations and non-GAAP operating margin during the three months ended March 31, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017, were primarily due to growth in recurring revenue that outpaced the related costs, partially offset by investments we are making in our sales organization, customer success program and solution development efforts, which are discussed above.
Each of these measures of non-GAAP organic revenue growth excludes incremental acquisition-related revenue attributable to companies acquired in the current fiscal year.
For companies, if any, acquired in the immediately preceding fiscal year, each of these non-GAAP organic revenue growth measures reflects presentation of full year incremental non-GAAP revenue derived from such companies as if they were combined throughout the prior period, and they include the non-GAAP revenue attributable to those companies, as if there were no acquisition-related write-downs of acquired deferred revenue to fair value as required by GAAP.
Our revenue from payment services has historically increased during the fourth quarter due to year-end giving.
Our cash flow from operations normally fluctuates quarterly due to the combination of the timing of customer contract renewals including renewals associated with customers of acquired companies, delivery of professional services and occurrence of customer events, the payment of bonuses, as well as merit-based salary increases, among other factors.
Historically, due to lower revenues in our first quarter, combined with the payment of bonuses from the prior year in our first quarter, our cash flow from operations has been lowest in our first quarter, and due to the timing of customer contract renewals, many of which take place at or near the beginning of our third quarter, our cash flow from operations has been lower in our second quarter as compared to our third and fourth quarters.
At March 31, 2018, our total cash and cash equivalents balance included approximately $15.9 million of cash that was held by operations outside the U.S. While these funds may not be needed to fund our U.S. operations for at least the next twelve months, if we need these funds, we may be required to accrue and pay taxes to repatriate the funds.
Cash flow from operations associated with working capital decreased $8.5 million during the three months ended March 31, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017, primarily due to the timing of vendor payments.
Net cash used in investing activities of $17.9 million increased by $8.7 million during the three months ended March 31, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017.
During the three months ended March 31, 2018, we used net cash of $5.0 million for a business acquisition while we did not make any similar investments in during the same period in 2017.
We also spent $5.8 million of cash for purchases of property and equipment during the three months ended March 31, 2018, which was up $3.1 million from cash spent during the same period in 2017.
During the three months ended March 31, 2018, we had a net increase in borrowings of $28.8 million.
We paid $22.5 million to satisfy tax obligations of employees upon settlement or exercise of equity awards during the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to $14.8 million during the same period in 2017.
In addition, during the three months ended March 31, 2018, we paid dividends of $5.8 million, which was relatively consistent with the comparable period of 2017.
Cash flow from financing activities associated with changes in restricted cash due to customers decreased $238.6 million during the three months ended March 31, 2018 when compared to the same period in 2017.
Approximately 14% of our total revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was generated from operations outside the United States.
During the three months ended March 31, 2018, foreign translation resulted in an increase in our revenues and expenses denominated in non-U.S. currencies.
For the three months ended March 31, 2018, the fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates increased our total revenue by $2.0 million and our income from operations by an insignificant amount.
To determine the impacts on revenue (or income from operations) from fluctuations in currency exchange rates, current period revenues (or income from operations) from entities reporting in foreign currencies were translated into U.S. dollars using the comparable prior year period's weighted average foreign currency exchange rates.


