Yes [ ]    No [X]     



Return to Index   

CAUTIONARY NOTICE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION 

The terms the “Company,” “Bel,” “we,” “us,” and “our” as used in this report refer to Bel Fuse Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries unless otherwise specified.
The Company’s consolidated operating results are affected by a wide variety of factors that could materially and adversely affect revenues and profitability, including the risk factors described in Item 1A of our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K. As a result of these and other factors, the Company may experience material fluctuations in future operating results on a quarterly or annual basis, which could materially and adversely affect its business, consolidated financial condition, operating results, and common stock prices.
Furthermore, this document and other documents filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) contain certain forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (“Forward-Looking Statements”) with respect to the business of the Company.
Forward-Looking Statements are necessarily subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside our control, that could cause actual results to differ materially from these statements.
Forward-Looking Statements can be identified by such words as “anticipates,” “believes,” “plan,” “assumes,” “could,” “should,” “estimates,” “expects,” “intends,” “potential,” “seek,” “predict,” “may,” “will” and similar references to future periods.
All statements other than statements of historical facts included in this report regarding our strategies, prospects, financial condition, operations, costs, plans and objectives are Forward-Looking Statements.
These Forward-Looking Statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, including those detailed in Item 1A of our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K, which could cause actual results to differ materially from these Forward-Looking Statements.
The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly release the results of any revisions to these Forward-Looking Statements which may be necessary to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
Any Forward-Looking Statement made by the Company is based only on information currently available to us and speaks only as of the date on which it is made.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

The information in this Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”) should be read in conjunction with the Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes set forth in Item 1 of Part I of this quarterly report on Form 10-Q, our MD&A set forth in Item 7 of Part II of our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K and our consolidated financial statements and related notes set forth in Item 8 of Part II of our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K. See Part II, Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” below and “Cautionary Notice Regarding Forward-Looking Information,” above, and the information referenced therein, for a description of risks that we face and important factors that we believe could cause actual results to differ materially from those in our forward-looking statements.
All amounts and percentages are approximate due to rounding and all dollars in the text are in millions, except per share amounts or where otherwise noted.
When we cross-reference to a “Note,” we are referring to our “Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements,” unless the context indicates otherwise.
The preceding sentence represents a Forward-Looking Statement.
See “Cautionary Notice Regarding Forward-Looking Information.” 

Summary by Operating Segment 




Return to Index  

Sales declines in our North America segment during the second quarter of 2019 reflected lower sales into our distribution channel as our distribution partners continue to work down their level of inventory on hand.
Sales of our connector products into military applications were also lower during the second quarter of 2019 compared to the same period of 2018, impacting our North America and European segment sales.
Sales in our Asia segment in the second quarter of 2019 were down versus 2018 as a result of customers working down heighted inventory levels which had been built up during 2018 in response to new product launches and the tariffs that went into effect in 2018 and 2019.
The preceding sentence represents a Forward-Looking Statement.
See “Cautionary Notice Regarding Forward-Looking Information."
We continue to analyze our global working capital and cash requirements and the potential tax liabilities attributable to further repatriation, and we have yet to make any further determination regarding repatriation of funds from outside the U.S. to fund the Company’s U.S. operations in the future.
In the event these funds were needed for Bel’s U.S. operations, the Company would be required to accrue and pay U.S. state taxes and any applicable foreign withholding taxes to repatriate these funds.
Cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and accounts receivable comprised approximately 31.7% of the Company’s total assets at June 30, 2019 and 32.9% of total assets at December 31, 2018.
The Company’s current ratio (i.e., the ratio of current assets to current liabilities) was 3.2 to 1 at June 30, 2019 and 2.7 to 1 at December 31, 2018.
In June 2014, the Company entered into a senior Credit and Security Agreement, which was subsequently amended in March 2016, and further amended and refinanced in December 2017.
The Credit and Security Agreement contains customary representations and warranties, covenants and events of default and financial covenants that measure (i) the ratio of the Company's total funded indebtedness, on a consolidated basis, to the amount of the Company’s consolidated EBITDA, as defined (“Leverage Ratio”), and (ii) the ratio of the amount of the Company’s consolidated EBITDA to the Company’s consolidated fixed charges (“Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio”).
If an event of default occurs, the lenders under the Credit and Security Agreement would be entitled to take various actions, including the acceleration of amounts due thereunder and all actions permitted to be taken by a secured creditor.
