Item 1.
Financial Statements (Unaudited)
Return to Index
Return to Index
Return to Index
Return to Index
Return to Index
BEL FUSE INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND ACCOUNTING POLICIES
The condensed consolidated balance sheets, statements of operations, comprehensive income, stockholders' equity and cash flows for the periods presented herein have been prepared by the Company and are unaudited.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments (consisting solely of normal recurring adjustments) necessary to present fairly the consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows for all periods presented have been made.
The results for the three months ended March 31, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the full year.
These condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and footnotes thereto included in the Bel Fuse Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
Certain information and footnote disclosures required under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S.
GAAP”) have been condensed or omitted from the following condensed consolidated financial statements pursuant to the rules and regulations, including the interim reporting requirements, of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").
The preparation of condensed consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts and the disclosure of contingent amounts in our condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes.
Actual results could differ from these estimates.
The Company’s significant accounting policies are summarized in Note 1 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
There were no significant changes to these accounting policies during the three months ended March 31, 2019, except as discussed in Note 12, Leases, related to the adoption of the new lease standard.
All amounts included in the tables to these notes to condensed consolidated financial statements, except per share amounts, are in thousands.
Recently Adopted Accounting Standards
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standard Update ("ASU") 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842) (“ASU 2016-02”), to provide a new comprehensive model for lease accounting.
Under this guidance, lessees and lessors should apply a “right-of-use” model in accounting for all leases (including subleases) and eliminate the concept of operating leases and off-balance sheet leases.
Recognition, measurement and presentation of expenses will depend on classification as a finance or operating lease.
Similar modifications have been made to lessor accounting in-line with revenue recognition guidance.
This guidance was effective for annual periods and interim periods within those annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018.
The amendments also require certain quantitative and qualitative disclosures about leasing arrangements.
The Company adopted ASU 2016-02 as amended effective January 1, 2019 using the modified retrospective approach.
In connection with the adoption, we elected to utilize the Comparatives Under 840 Option whereby the Company will continue to present prior period financial statements and disclosures under ASC 840.
In addition, we elected the transition package of three practical expedients permitted within the standard, which eliminates the requirements to reassess prior conclusions about lease identification, lease classification and initial direct costs.
Further, we elected a short-term lease exception policy, permitting us to not apply the recognition requirements of this standard to short-term leases (i.e.
leases with terms of 12 months or less) and an accounting policy to account for lease and non-lease components as a single component for certain classes of assets.
We implemented a new lease system to facilitate the requirements of the new standard and completed the necessary changes to our accounting policies, processes, disclosures and internal control over financial reporting.
Adoption of the new standard resulted in the recording of right-of-use assets in the amount of $20.7 million and lease liabilities related to our operating leases in the amount of $21.0 million on our consolidated balance sheet as of January 1, 2019.
The standard did not materially affect the Company’s consolidated net earnings or have any impact on cash flows.
See Note 12, Leases, for Topic 842 disclosures in connection with the adoption of ASU 2016-02.
Return to Index
Accounting Standards Issued But Not Yet Adopted
The change in balance of our unbilled receivables from December 31, 2018 to March 31, 2019 primarily relates to a timing difference between the Company’s performance (i.e.
when our product is shipped to a customer-controlled hub) and the point at which the Company can invoice the customer per the terms of the customer contract (i.e.
when the customer pulls our product from the customer-controlled hub).
The aggregate amount of transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations that have not been satisfied as of March 31, 2019 related to contracts that exceed one year in duration amounted to $16.0 million, with expected contract expiration dates that range from 2020 - 2025.
It is expected that 47% of this aggregate amount will be recognized in 2020, 48% will be recognized in 2021 and the remainder will be recognized in years beyond 2021.
  3.
EARNINGS (LOSS) PER SHARE
4.
FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS
Level 1 – Observable inputs such as quoted market prices in active markets;
Level 2 – Inputs other than quoted prices in active markets that are either directly or indirectly observable; and
Level 3 – Unobservable inputs about which little or no market data exists, therefore requiring an entity to develop its own assumptions.
As of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, our available-for-sale securities primarily consisted of investments held in a rabbi trust which are intended to fund the Company’s Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (“SERP”) obligations.
These securities are measured at fair value using quoted prices in active markets for identical assets (Level 1) inputs and amounted to $1.3 million at March 31, 2019 and $1.4 million at December 31, 2018.
The Company does not have any financial assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis categorized as Level 3, and there were no transfers in or out of Level 1, Level 2 or Level 3 during the three months ended March 31, 2019 or March 31, 2018.
There were no changes to the Company’s valuation techniques used to measure asset fair values on a recurring or nonrecurring basis during the three months ended March 31, 2019 or March 31, 2018.
There were no financial assets accounted for at fair value on a nonrecurring basis as of March 31, 2019 or December 31, 2018.
The Company has other financial instruments, such as cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, restricted cash, accounts payable, accrued expenses and notes payable, which are not measured at fair value on a recurring basis but are recorded at amounts that approximate fair value due to their liquid or short-term nature.
The fair value of the Company’s long-term debt is estimated using a discounted cash flow method based on interest rates that are currently available for debt issuances with similar terms and maturities.
At March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the estimated fair value of total debt was $118.0 million and $117.9 million, respectively, compared to a carrying amount of $113.6 million and $114.2 million, respectively.
The Company did not have any other financial liabilities within the scope of the fair value disclosure requirements as of March 31, 2019.
Nonfinancial assets and liabilities, such as goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets and long-lived assets, are accounted for at fair value on a nonrecurring basis.
These items are tested for impairment upon the occurrence of a triggering event or in the case of goodwill, on at least an annual basis.
There were no triggering events that occurred during the three months ended March 31, 2019 that would warrant interim impairment testing.
Return to Index
  6.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Depreciation expense for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 was $2.5 million and $3.2 million, respectively.
Depreciation expense related to our manufacturing facilities and equipment is included in cost of sales and depreciation expense associated with administrative facilities and office equipment is included in selling, general and administrative expense within the accompanying condensed consolidated statements of operations.
Asset Held for Sale
During the first quarter of 2019, the Company finalized its plans to transition its manufacturing and warehousing operations from its Inwood, New York facility to Bel’s existing facilities in Glen Rock, Pennsylvania and the Dominican Republic.
In connection with this transition, the Company has classified $1.5 million of property, plant and equipment as held for sale on the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheet at March 31, 2019.
The Company expects the transition to be complete by the end of the third quarter of 2019.
The change in warranty accrual during the three months ended March 31, 2019 primarily related to repair costs incurred and adjustments to pre-existing warranties.
There were no new material warranty charges incurred during the three months ended March 31, 2019.
Return to Index
Restructuring Activities
The Company has a Credit and Security Agreement with KeyBank National Association (as amended, the “CSA”).
The CSA consists of (i) a term loan, with outstanding borrowings of $115.2 million and $116.0 million at March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively and (ii) a $75 million revolving credit facility (“Revolver”), with no outstanding borrowings at March 31, 2019 or December 31, 2018.
The CSA has a maturity date of December 11, 2022.
At March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the carrying value of the debt on the condensed consolidated balance sheet is reflected net of $1.7 million and $1.8 million, respectively, of deferred financing costs.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019, the Company borrowed $10.0 million from its revolver, all of which was repaid by March 31, 2019.
The weighted-average interest rate in effect was 4.25% at March 31, 2019 and 4.31% at December 31, 2018 and consisted of LIBOR plus the Company’s credit spread, as determined per the terms of the CSA.
The Company incurred $1.4 million and $1.2 million of interest expense during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2018, respectively.
The CSA contains customary representations and warranties, covenants and events of default and financial covenants that measure (i) the ratio of the Company's total funded indebtedness, on a consolidated basis, to the amount of the Company’s consolidated EBITDA, as defined, (“Leverage Ratio”) and (ii) the ratio of the amount of the Company’s consolidated EBITDA to the Company’s consolidated fixed charges.
If an event of default occurs, the lenders under the CSA would be entitled to take various actions, including the acceleration of amounts due thereunder and all actions permitted to be taken by a secured creditor.
At March 31, 2019, the Company was in compliance with its debt covenants, including its most restrictive covenant, the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio.
The Company and its subsidiaries file income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction and various states and foreign jurisdictions.
The Company is no longer subject to U.S. federal examinations by tax authorities for years before 2015 and for state examinations before 2012.
Regarding foreign subsidiaries, the Company is no longer subject to examination by tax authorities for years before 2008 in Asia and generally 2010 in Europe.
The Company is currently under examination by the taxing authorities in Slovakia for the tax year 2014.
As a result of the expiration of the statutes of limitations for specific jurisdictions, it is reasonably possible that the related unrecognized benefits for tax positions taken regarding previously filed tax returns may change materially from those recorded as liabilities for uncertain tax positions in the Company’s consolidated financial statements at March 31, 2019.
The Company’s liabilities for uncertain tax positions totaled $29.4 million and $28.9 million at March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively, of which $1.1 million and $1.4 million is included in other current liabilities at March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.
These amounts, if recognized, would reduce the Company’s effective tax rate.
As of March 31, 2019, approximately $1.1 million of the Company’s liabilities for uncertain tax positions are expected to be resolved during 2019 by way of expiration of the related statute of limitations.
The Company’s policy is to recognize interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions as a component of the current provision for income taxes.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, the Company recognized $0.2 million in interest and penalties in the condensed consolidated statements of operations during each period.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, the Company recognized a benefit of $0.3 million and zero, respectively, for the reversal of such interest and penalties, relating to the settlement of the liability for uncertain tax positions.
The Company has approximately $4.8 million and $3.8 million accrued for the payment of interest and penalties at March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively, which is included in both income taxes payable and liability for uncertain tax positions in the condensed consolidated balance sheets.
Return to Index
The Company continues to monitor the impacts of the U.S. tax reform and supplementary guidance as it becomes available.
At December 31, 2018, the remaining balance of the deemed repatriation tax was included in other current liabilities on the Company’s condensed consolidated balance sheet.
At March 31, 2019, the majority of the deemed repatriation tax is included in other long-term liabilities on the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheet due to clarification of an Internal Revenue Service notice received in December 2018.
10.
RETIREMENT FUND AND PROFIT SHARING PLAN
The Company maintains the Bel Fuse Inc. Employees’ Savings Plan, a defined contribution plan that is intended to meet the applicable requirements for tax-qualification under sections 401(a) and (k) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”).
The expense for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 amounted to $0.3 million in both periods.
The Company’s matching contribution is made in the form of Bel Fuse Inc. Class A common stock.
As of March 31, 2019, the plan owned 121,261 and 122,056 shares of Bel Fuse Inc. Class A and Class B common stock, respectively.
The Company's subsidiaries in Asia have a retirement fund covering substantially all of their Hong Kong based full-time employees.
The expense for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 amounted to approximately $0.1 million in both periods.
As of March 31, 2019, the plan owned 3,323 and 17,342 shares of Bel Fuse Inc. Class A and Class B common stock, respectively.
The Company maintains a SERP, which is designed to provide a limited group of key management and other key employees of the Company with supplemental retirement and death benefits.
As discussed in Note 3 above, the Company has investments in a rabbi trust which are intended to fund the obligations of the SERP.
Return to Index
11.
ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE LOSS
Changes in accumulated other comprehensive loss by component during the three months ended March 31, 2019 are as follows.
All amounts are net of tax.
The Company has operating leases for its facilities used for manufacturing, research and development, sales and administration.
There are also operating and finance leases related to manufacturing equipment, office equipment and vehicles.
These leases have remaining lease terms ranging from 1 year to 8 years.
Certain of the leases contain options to extend the term of the lease and certain of the leases contain options to terminate the lease within a specified period of time.
These options to extend or terminate a lease are included in the lease term only when it is reasonably likely that the Company will elect that option.
The Company is not a party to any material sublease arrangements.
Return to Index
Our discount rate is based on our incremental borrowing rate, as adjusted based on the geographic regions in which our leases assets are located.
Return to Index
As of March 31, 2019, the Company did not have any additional operating or financing leases that have not yet commenced.
13.
COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
Legal Proceedings
The Company is party to a number of legal actions and claims, none of which individually or in the aggregate, in the opinion of management, are expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated results of operations or financial position.
In connection with the acquisition of Power Solutions, there is an ongoing claim by the Arezzo Revenue Agency in Italy concerning certain tax matters related to what was then Power-One Asia Pacific Electronics Shenzhen Co. Ltd. (now Bel Power Solutions Asia Pacific Electronics Shenzhen Co. Ltd, or “BPS China”) for the years 2004 to 2006.
In September 2012, the Tax Court of Arezzo ruled in favor of BPS China and cancelled the claim.
In February 2013, the Arezzo Revenue Agency filed an appeal of the Tax Court’s ruling.
The hearing of the appeal was held on October 2, 2014.
On October 13, 2014, BPS China was informed of the Regional Tax Commission of Florence ruling which was in favor of the Arezzo Revenue Agency and against BPS China.
An appeal was filed on July 18, 2015 before the Regional Tax Commission of Florence and rejected.
On December 5, 2016, the Arezzo Revenue Agency filed an appeal with the Supreme Court and BPS China filed a counter-appeal on January 4, 2017.
The Supreme Court has yet to render its judgment.
The estimated liability related to this matter is approximately $12.0 million and has been included as a liability for uncertain tax positions on the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheets.
As Bel is fully indemnified in this matter per the terms of the stock purchase agreement with ABB, a corresponding other asset for indemnification is also included in other assets on the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheets at March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018.
On June 1, 2018, the Company filed an action against Unipower, LLC in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York for breach of contract.
Specifically, the Company alleges in its Complaint that Unipower has willfully violated the Master Services Agreement (“MSA”) entered into by the parties on January 23, 2015 by failing to make payment for the products it contracted for under the MSA.
The parties entered into a settlement agreement on December 17, 2018 resolving all outstanding claims and a Stipulation of Dismissal was filed and entered on January 10, 2019.
The Company is not a party to any other legal proceeding, the adverse outcome of which is likely to have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial condition or results of operations.
Return to Index
Net Sales – Segment net sales are attributed to individual segments based on the geographic source of the billing for such customer sales.
Intercompany sales include finished products manufactured in foreign countries which are then transferred to the United States and Europe for sale; finished goods manufactured in the United States which are transferred to Europe and Asia for sale; and semi-finished components manufactured in the United States which are sold to Asia for further processing.
Income (loss) from operations represents net sales less operating costs and expenses and does not include any amounts related to intercompany transactions.
Return to Index
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings
The information called for by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to Note 13 of the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, under “Legal Proceedings”, as set forth in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
We are also involved in various other legal actions incidental to our business.
We believe, after consulting with counsel, that the disposition of these other legal proceedings and matters will not have a material effect on our condensed consolidated financial condition or results of operations.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors
See Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018.
Except as required by the federal securities law, we undertake no obligation to update or revise any risk factor, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Return to Index
Return to Index
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
