Item 3.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 

The Company is exposed to market risk primarily from changes in foreign currency exchange rates and changes in interest rates associated with its long-term debt.
During the first quarter of 2019, the U.S. Dollar was stronger against most other currencies in which the Company pays its expenses.
In comparing average exchange rates during the first quarter of 2019 versus those during the first quarter of 2018, the Euro depreciated by 8%, the Pound depreciated by 7%, the Peso depreciated by 3% and the Renminbi depreciated by 6% against the U.S. Dollar.
The Company estimates that the depreciation in these foreign currencies led lower to operating costs of $1.7 million, as the majority of our expenses in the PRC, Europe and Mexico are paid in local currency.
This offset the foreign exchange loss recognized in the first quarter of 2019 of $0.6 million on translation of local currency balance sheet accounts to the U.S. Dollar in consolidation, resulting from foreign currency fluctuations since December 31, 2018.
Refer to Item 7A, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 for further discussion of market risks.
Return to Index  

Item 4.
Controls and Procedures 



PART II.
Other Information   

Item 1.
Legal Proceedings 

The information called for by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to Note 13 of the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, under “Legal Proceedings”, as set forth in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
We are also involved in various other legal actions incidental to our business.
We believe, after consulting with counsel, that the disposition of these other legal proceedings and matters will not have a material effect on our condensed consolidated financial condition or results of operations.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors 

See Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018.
Except as required by the federal securities law, we undertake no obligation to update or revise any risk factor, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Return to Index  





Return to Index  

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
