Item 2.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
The information in this Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”) should be read in conjunction with the Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes set forth in Item 1 of Part I of this quarterly report on Form 10-Q, our MD&A set forth in Item 7 of Part II of our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K and our consolidated financial statements and related notes set forth in Item 8 of Part II of our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K. See Part II, Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” below and “Cautionary Notice Regarding Forward-Looking Information,” above, and the information referenced therein, for a description of risks that we face and important factors that we believe could cause actual results to differ materially from those in our forward-looking statements.
All amounts and percentages are approximate due to rounding and all dollars in the text are in millions, except per share amounts or where otherwise noted.
When we cross-reference to a “Note,” we are referring to our “Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements,” unless the context indicates otherwise.
All amounts noted within the tables are in thousands and amounts and percentages are approximate due to rounding.
 Overview
Our Company
We design, manufacture and market a broad array of products that power, protect and connect electronic circuits.
These products are primarily used in the networking, telecommunications, computing, military, aerospace, transportation and broadcasting industries.
Bel’s portfolio of products also finds application in the automotive, medical and consumer electronics markets.
Our operating expenses are driven principally by the cost of labor where the factories that Bel uses are located, the cost of the materials that we use and our ability to effectively and efficiently manage overhead costs.
As labor and material costs vary by product line and region, any significant shift in product mix can have an associated impact on our costs of sales.
Costs are recorded as incurred for all products manufactured.
Such amounts are determined based upon the estimated stage of production and include labor cost and fringes and related allocations of factory overhead.
Our products are manufactured at various facilities in the U.S., Mexico, Dominican Republic, England, Czech Republic, Slovakia and the People’s Republic of China (PRC).
We have little visibility into the ordering habits of our customers and we can be subjected to large and unpredictable variations in demand for our products.
Accordingly, we must continually recruit and train new workers to replace those lost to attrition and be able to address peaks in demand that may occur from time to time.
These recruiting and training efforts and related inefficiencies, and overtime required in order to meet any increase in demand, can add volatility to the labor costs incurred by us.
Key Factors Affecting our Business
  ·   Revenues – The Company’s revenues decreased by $6.2 million (or 2.4%) in the first half of 2019 as compared to the same period of 2018.
The sales decline was seen across all of our major product groups and was largely due to an over-inventoried supply channel at our customers and distributors following the high volume of purchases in 2018 in advance of the tariffs that went into effect in 2019.
  ·   Backlog – Our backlog of orders amounted to $150.9 million at June 30, 2019, a decline of $20.3 million, or 12%, from December 31, 2018.
Since year-end, we saw an 8% increase in the backlog for our Connectivity Solutions products, primarily driven by additional orders from our military customers.
The backlog of orders for our Power Solutions and Protection products declined by 17% and backlog for our Magnetic Solutions products was down 29% from year-end 2018 levels.
Order volumes were lower in the first half of 2019 as a result of slowdowns in certain markets coupled with customers working down heighted inventory levels which had been built up in response to new product launches and the tariffs that went into effect in 2018 and 2019.
  ·   Product Mix – Material and labor costs vary by product line and any significant shift in product mix between higher- and lower-margin product lines will have a corresponding impact on the Company’s gross margin percentage.
In general, our connectivity products have the highest contribution margins, our magnetic products are more labor intensive and are therefore less profitable than the connectivity products and our power products are on the lower end of our profit margin range, due to their high material content.
Fluctuations in sales volume among our product groups will have a corresponding impact on Bel’s profit margins.
Return to Index
  ·   Pricing and Availability of Materials – While material cost and availability for certain components have started to ease, the higher raw material costs which were in place during 2018, particularly related to resistors, capacitors and mosfets, are still running through our supply chain as we ship the balance of our inventory on hand from 2018.
Lead times continue to be extended for certain mosfets and costs for those components remain elevated.
As a result, the Company’s material costs as a percentage of sales increased to 43.8% during the first half of 2019 from 41.4% during the first half of 2018.
  ·   Labor Costs – Labor costs decreased from 11.4% of sales during the first half of 2018 to 11.0% of sales during the first half of 2019, as a more favorable exchange rate environment in 2019 related to the Chinese Renminbi offset the overall impact of minimum wage increases in Mexico which went into effect on January 1, 2019 as well as minimum wage increases in the PRC which went into effect in the first and third quarters of 2018.
  ·   Impact of Foreign Currency – During the first six months of 2019, the Company experienced lower labor and overhead costs of $3.2 million related to favorable fluctuations in exchange rates versus 2018, partially offset by foreign exchange transactional losses realized of $0.1 million.
Since we are a U.S. domiciled company, we translate our foreign currency-denominated financial results into U.S. dollars.
Due to the changes in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar, translating our financial results and the revaluation of certain intercompany as well as third-party transactions to and from foreign currencies to U.S. dollars may result in a favorable or unfavorable impact to our consolidated statements of operations and cash flows.
The Company was favorably impacted by transactional foreign exchange gains in the first half of 2019 due to the depreciation of the Euro, Pound, and Renminbi against the U.S. dollar as compared to exchange rates in effect during 2018.
The Company has significant manufacturing operations located in the PRC where labor and overhead costs are paid in local currency.
As a result, the U.S. Dollar equivalent costs of these operations were $3.2 million lower in the first half of 2019 as compared to the same period of 2018.
The Company monitors changes in foreign currencies and may implement pricing actions to help mitigate the impact that changes in foreign currencies may have on its consolidated operating results.
  ·   Effective Tax Rate – The Company’s effective tax rate will fluctuate based on the geographic segment in which our pretax profits are earned.
Of the geographic segments in which we operate, the U.S. and Europe’s tax rates are generally equivalent; and Asia has the lowest tax rates of the Company’s three geographical segments.
See Note 9, “Income Taxes”.
After record bookings throughout 2018, the Company has experienced slower bookings during the first half of 2019 as customers work through their inventory on hand.
The Company experienced margin pressure during the second quarter of 2019 due to lower sales volumes and high material costs from 2018 which continue to run through the Company’s statement of operations.
As a result of these ongoing factors, the Company expects the balance of 2019 to remain challenging from both a sales and margin perspective.
The preceding sentence represents a Forward-Looking Statement.
See “Cautionary Notice Regarding Forward-Looking Information.”
Summary by Operating Segment
Return to Index
Sales declines in our North America segment during the second quarter of 2019 reflected lower sales into our distribution channel as our distribution partners continue to work down their level of inventory on hand.
Sales of our connector products into military applications were also lower during the second quarter of 2019 compared to the same period of 2018, impacting our North America and European segment sales.
Sales in our Asia segment in the second quarter of 2019 were down versus 2018 as a result of customers working down heighted inventory levels which had been built up during 2018 in response to new product launches and the tariffs that went into effect in 2018 and 2019.
Net sales and income from operations by operating segment for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 were as follows.
Segment net sales are attributed to individual segments based on the geographic source of the billing for customer sales.
Income from operations declined across all segments during the second quarter of 2019 as compared with the same quarter of 2018 primary due to lower sales volume.
Our Asia segment was also impacted by $0.4 million of restructuring charges during the second quarter of 2019.
During the first half of 2019, income from operations for our North America segment was unfavorably impacted by $0.9 million of restructuring costs associated with the transition of manufacturing and warehouse operations from our Inwood, New York facility to other existing Bel facilities, and higher labor costs in Mexico due to an increase in minimum wage rates which went into effect on January 1, 2019.
Net Sales
Sales of our connectivity solutions products during the second quarter of 2019 declined $6.4 million primarily due to lower demand from military customers during the quarter, and reduced volume of product flowing through our distribution channels as our distribution partners continue to work down inventory levels that had been built up in 2018 ahead of the tariffs.
These factors also impacted the six-month period ended June 30, 2019, which declined $4.9 million from the same period of 2018, partially offset by higher sales to aerospace customers during the first quarter of 2019.
Return to Index
Sales of our magnetic products during the second quarter and first half of 2019 were down $4.7 million from the same periods of 2018 while inventory levels built up in advance of a new program launch during 2018 are worked through.
Cost of Sales
Material costs as a percentage of sales continued to increase during the second quarter and first half of 2019 compared to the same periods of 2018 primarily due to the industry-wide supply constraints related to certain of our purchased components during 2018.
The finished goods shipped during the second quarter of 2019 still contained some of the higher-cost raw material components.
Labor costs as a percentage of sales also declined during the second quarter and first six months of 2019 compared to the same periods of 2018 as a more favorable exchange rate environment related to the Chinese Renminbi offset the overall impact of minimum wage increases in the PRC and Mexico.
The PRC government increased the minimum wage in the regions where Bel’s factories are located in February and July of 2018.
Furthermore, the minimum wage rates in Mexico increased effective January 1, 2019 which also drove labor costs higher in the second quarter and first half of 2019.
The other expenses noted in the table above include fixed cost items such as support labor and fringe, depreciation and amortization, and facility costs (rent, utilities, insurance).
In total, these other expenses decreased during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 by $0.2 million and $0.5 million, respectively, as compared to the same periods of 2018, primarily due to lower depreciation and amortization expense in the 2019 periods.
Return to Index
Provision for Income Taxes
The Company’s effective tax rate will fluctuate based on the geographic segment in which the pretax profits are earned.
Of the geographic segments in which the Company operates, the U.S. and Europe’s tax rates are generally equivalent; and Asia has the lowest tax rates of the Company’s three geographical segments.
See Note 9, “Income Taxes”.
The provision for income taxes for the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 was $0.4 million and $2.4 million, respectively.
The Company’s earnings before income taxes for the three months ended June 30, 2019, were approximately $5.6 million lower than the same period in 2018, primarily attributable to lower earnings in the Asia and Europe segments.
The Company’s effective tax rate was 12.4% and 26.6% for the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The change in the effective tax rate during the three months ended June 30, 2019 as compared to the same period in 2018, is primarily attributable to a decrease in U.S. taxes relating to income from foreign subsidiaries taxed in the U.S. as part of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.
See Note 9, “Income Taxes.”
The provision for income taxes for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 was $0.5 million and $2.7 million, respectively.
The Company’s earnings before income taxes for the six months ended June 30, 2019 were approximately $3.5 million lower than the same period in 2018, primarily attributable to lower earnings in the Asia and Europe segment.
The Company’s effective tax rate was 10.1% and 33.8% for the six-month periods ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The change in the effective tax rate during the six months ended June 30, 2019 as compared to the same period of 2018, is primarily attributable to a decrease in U.S. taxes relating to income from foreign subsidiaries taxed in the U.S. as part of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act and the impact of permanent differences on U.S. tax exempt activities.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Our primary sources of cash are the collection of trade receivables generated from the sales of our products and services to our customers and amounts available under our existing lines of credit, including our credit facility.
Our primary uses of cash are payments for operating expenses, investments in working capital, capital expenditures, interest, taxes, dividends, debt obligations and other long-term liabilities.
We believe that our current liquidity position and future cash flows from operations will enable us to fund our operations, including all of the items mentioned above in the next twelve months.
At June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, $37.6 million and $46.3 million, respectively (or 64% and 86%, respectively), of cash and cash equivalents was held by foreign subsidiaries of the Company.
During the first half of 2019, the Company repatriated $10.0 million of funds from outside of the U.S., with minimal incremental tax liability, and completed an intercompany loan from one of the Company’s foreign subsidiaries to its U.S. parent entity during the second quarter.
Management has current intentions to repatriate an additional $5.0 million of funds from outside of the U.S., with a minimal incremental tax liability, by the end of 2019 with the intent of reducing our outstanding debt balance.
The preceding sentence represents a Forward-Looking Statement.
See “Cautionary Notice Regarding Forward-Looking Information."
We continue to analyze our global working capital and cash requirements and the potential tax liabilities attributable to further repatriation, and we have yet to make any further determination regarding repatriation of funds from outside the U.S. to fund the Company’s U.S. operations in the future.
In the event these funds were needed for Bel’s U.S. operations, the Company would be required to accrue and pay U.S. state taxes and any applicable foreign withholding taxes to repatriate these funds.
Cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and accounts receivable comprised approximately 31.7% of the Company’s total assets at June 30, 2019 and 32.9% of total assets at December 31, 2018.
The Company’s current ratio (i.e., the ratio of current assets to current liabilities) was 3.2 to 1 at June 30, 2019 and 2.7 to 1 at December 31, 2018.
In June 2014, the Company entered into a senior Credit and Security Agreement, which was subsequently amended in March 2016, and further amended and refinanced in December 2017.
The Credit and Security Agreement contains customary representations and warranties, covenants and events of default and financial covenants that measure (i) the ratio of the Company's total funded indebtedness, on a consolidated basis, to the amount of the Company’s consolidated EBITDA, as defined (“Leverage Ratio”), and (ii) the ratio of the amount of the Company’s consolidated EBITDA to the Company’s consolidated fixed charges (“Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio”).
If an event of default occurs, the lenders under the Credit and Security Agreement would be entitled to take various actions, including the acceleration of amounts due thereunder and all actions permitted to be taken by a secured creditor.
At June 30, 2019, the Company was in compliance with its debt covenants, including its most restrictive covenant, the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio.
The unused credit available under the credit facility at June 30, 2019 was $75.0 million, of which we had the ability to borrow $37.1 million without violating our Leverage Ratio covenant based on the Company’s existing consolidated EBITDA.
Return to Index
Cash Flows
Six Months Ended June 30, 2019
  ·   net cash provided by operating activities of $7.8 million;
  ·   purchases of property, plant and equipment of $5.3 million;
  ·   dividend payments of $1.6 million; and
  ·   repayments of long-term debt of $1.5 million
During the six months ended June 30, 2019, accounts receivable decreased by $7.7 million primarily due to lower sales during the second quarter of 2019 as compared to the fourth quarter of 2018.
Days sales outstanding (DSO) increased slightly to 60 days at June 30, 2019 from 59 days at December 31, 2018.
Inventory decreased by $1.8 million at June 30, 2019 compared to December 31, 2018.
Inventory turns were 3.6 at June 30, 2019 as compared to 3.7 at December 31, 2018.
Six Months Ended June 30, 2018
  ·   purchases of property, plant and equipment of $5.9 million;
  ·   repayments of long-term debt of $7.5 million; and
  ·   dividend payments of $1.6 million; partially offset by
  ·   net cash provided by operations of $1.2 million.
During the six months ended June 30, 2018, accounts receivable increased by $10.5 million primarily due to higher sales volume in the second quarter of 2018 as compared to the fourth quarter of 2017.
Days sales outstanding (DSO) declined to 58 days at June 30, 2018 from 60 days at December 31, 2017.
Effective January 1, 2018, the Company implemented a change in the timing of revenue recognition (and related release of inventory from our books) in connection with the adoption of ASC 606.
Excluding the adoption adjustment related to this accounting change, inventory increased by $10.6 million at June 30, 2018 compared to December 31, 2017, primarily in raw materials.
The increased raw materials balance was driven by a higher volume of raw materials purchased to accommodate increased demand for our products, coupled with higher material costs in 2018 resulting from constraints in component availability.
Inventory turns increased from 3.6 at December 31, 2017 to 4.2 at June 30, 2018, primarily due to the change in revenue recognition accounting noted above.
Critical Accounting Policies
Management’s discussion and analysis of Bel’s financial condition and results of operations are based upon the Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP.
The preparation of these financial statements requires the Company to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.
On an on-going basis, the Company evaluates its estimates, including those related to product returns, bad debts, inventories, goodwill, intangible assets, investments, warranties, SERP expense, income taxes and contingencies and litigation.
The Company bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.
Return to Index
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
The discussion of new financial accounting standards applicable to the Company is incorporated herein by reference to Note 1 to the Company’s Financial Statements, “Basis of Presentation and Accounting Policies,” included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
