fls.txt
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains statements that are not historical in nature, are predictive in nature, or that depend upon or refer to future events or conditions or otherwise contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


item1.txt
We determine if an arrangement is a lease at its inception.
Our lease terms that are used in determining our operating lease liabilities at lease inception may include options to extend or terminate the leases when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise such options.
At August 31, 2019, ROU assets of $2.0 billion related to our operating leases are included in other non-current assets; and operating lease liabilities of $587 million are included in other current liabilities; and $1.5 billion are included in other non-current liabilities in our condensed consolidated balance sheets.
Cash flow movements related to our lease activities are included in prepaid expenses and other assets and accounts payables and other liabilities as presented in net cash provided by operating activities in our condensed consolidated statement of cash flows for the three months ended August 31, 2019.
For the three months ended August 31, 2019, operating lease expenses totaled $148 million, net of sublease income of $4 million, and cash paid for amounts included in the measurement of operating lease liabilities was $148 million.
We recorded ROU assets of $2.2 billion in exchange for operating lease obligations during the three months ended August 31, 2019, which included $1.9 billion for operating leases existing on June 1, 2019 that were recognized upon our initial adoption of Topic 842 and $211 million for operating leases that were contracted during the first quarter of fiscal 2020.
As of August 31, 2019, the weighted average remaining lease term for operating leases was approximately five years, and the weighted average discount rate for operating leases was 3.1%.
Trade receivables, net of allowance for doubtful accounts, and deferred revenues are reported net of related uncollected deferred revenues in our condensed consolidated balance sheets as of August 31, 2019 and May 31, 2019.
The amount of revenues recognized during each of the three months ended August 31, 2019 and 2018 that were included in the opening deferred revenues balance as of May 31, 2019 and 2018 were each approximately $3.5 billion.
Revenues recognized from performance obligations satisfied in prior periods and impairment losses recognized on our receivables were immaterial in each of the three months ended August 31, 2019 and 2018.
We offer certain of our customers the option to acquire our software products, hardware products and services offerings through separate long-term payment contracts.
We generally sell these contracts that we have financed for our customers on a non-recourse basis to financial institutions within 90 days of the contracts’ dates of execution.
Restricted cash that was included within cash and cash equivalents as presented within our condensed consolidated balance sheets as of August 31, 2019 and May 31, 2019 and our condensed consolidated statements of cash flows for the three months ended August 31, 2019 and 2018 was nominal.
Acquisition related and other expenses primarily consist of personnel related costs for transitional and certain other employees, integration related professional services, certain business combination adjustments including adjustments after the measurement period has ended and certain other operating items, net.
Non-operating income, net consists primarily of interest income, net foreign currency exchange losses, the noncontrolling interests in the net profits of our majority-owned subsidiaries (primarily Oracle Financial Services Software Limited and Oracle Corporation Japan) and net other income, including net realized gains and losses related to all of our investments, net unrealized gains and losses related to the small portion of our investment portfolio related to our deferred compensation plan, net unrealized gains and losses related to certain equity securities and non-service net periodic pension income (losses).


item2.txt
These models include on-premise deployments, cloud-based deployments, and hybrid deployments (an approach that combines both on-premise and cloud-based deployment) such as our Oracle Cloud at Customer offering (an instance of Oracle Cloud in a customer’s own data center).
Through our worldwide sales force and Oracle Partner Network, we sell to customers all over the world including businesses of many sizes, government agencies, educational institutions and resellers.
cloud services revenues, which provide customers access to Oracle Cloud applications and infrastructure technologies via cloud-based deployment models that Oracle develops, provides unspecified updates and enhancements for, hosts, manages and supports and that customers access by entering into a subscription agreement with us for a stated period.
Cloud license and on-premise license revenues include revenues from the licensing of our software products including Oracle Applications, Oracle Database, Oracle Middleware and Java, among others, which our customers deploy within cloud-based, on-premise and other IT environments.
Our cloud license and on-premise license transactions are generally perpetual in nature and are generally recognized upfront at the point in time when the software is made available to the customer to download and use.
Revenues from usage-based royalty arrangements for distinct cloud licenses and on-premise licenses are recognized at the point in time when the software end user usage occurs.
The timing of a few large license transactions can substantially affect our quarterly license revenues due to the point in time nature of revenue recognition for license transactions, which is different than the typical revenue recognition pattern for our cloud services and license support revenues in which revenues are generally recognized ratably over the contractual terms.
Our cloud and license business’ revenue growth is affected by many factors, including the strength of general economic and business conditions; governmental budgetary constraints; the strategy for and competitive position of our offerings; our acquisitions; the continued renewal of our cloud services and license support customer contracts by the customer contract base; substantially all customers continuing to purchase license support contracts in connection with their license purchases; the pricing of license support contracts sold in connection with the sales of licenses; the pricing, amounts and volumes of licenses and cloud services sold; and foreign currency rate fluctuations.
Our cloud and license business’ margin has historically trended upward over the course of the four quarters within a particular fiscal year due to the historical upward trend of our cloud and license business’ revenues over those quarterly periods and because the majority of our costs for this business are generally fixed in the short term.
The historical upward trend of our cloud and license business’ revenues over the course of the four quarters within a particular fiscal year is primarily due to the addition of new cloud services and license support contracts to the customer contract base that we generally recognize as revenues ratably; the renewal of existing customers’ cloud services and license support contracts over the course of each fiscal year that we generally recognize as revenues ratably; and the historical upward trend of our cloud license and on-premise license revenues, which we generally recognize at a point in time upon delivery, over those four quarterly periods.
Our services business, which represented 8% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis, helps customers and partners maximize the performance of their investments in Oracle applications and infrastructure technologies.
We believe that our services are differentiated based on our focus on Oracle technologies, extensive experience, broad sets of intellectual property and best practices.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
The material set forth in Note 9 (pertaining to information regarding contingencies related to our income taxes) and Note 12 (pertaining to information regarding legal contingencies) of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q is incorporated herein by reference.


