fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.
The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.
Acuity Brands, Inc. (“Acuity Brands”) is the parent company of Acuity Brands Lighting, Inc. (“ABL”) and other subsidiaries (Acuity Brands, ABL, and such other subsidiaries are collectively referred to herein as the “Company”) and was incorporated in 2001 under the laws of the State of Delaware.
The Company is one of the world’s leading providers of lighting and building management solutions and services for commercial, institutional, industrial, infrastructure, and residential applications throughout North America and select international markets.
Additionally, the Company continues to expand its solutions portfolio to provide a host of other economic benefits, including software and services that enable the Internet of Things (“IoT”).
The Company's IoT solutions provide customers with access to robust data analytics; support the advancement of smart buildings, smart cities, and the smart grid; and allow businesses to develop custom applications to scale their operations.
These unaudited interim consolidated financial statements reflect all normal and recurring adjustments that are, in the opinion of management, necessary to present fairly the Company’s consolidated financial position as of May 31, 2018, the consolidated comprehensive income for the three and nine months ended May 31, 2018 and 2017, and the consolidated cash flows for the nine months ended May 31, 2018 and 2017.
However, the Company believes that the disclosures included herein are adequate to make the information presented not misleading.
On May 1, 2018, using cash on hand and borrowings available under existing credit arrangements, the Company acquired all of the equity interests of IOTA Engineering, LLC (“IOTA”).
The Company adopted ASU 2018-02 effective as of the beginning of the current reporting period and recorded a reclassification for the stranded tax effects resulting from the TCJA from Accumulated other comprehensive loss to Retained earnings in the amount of $11.1 million on the Consolidated Balance Sheets during the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
2017-01, Clarifying the Definition of a Business (“ASU 2017-01”), which requires an evaluation of whether substantially all of the fair value of assets acquired is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or a group of similar identifiable assets.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the provisions of ASU 2017-01 and intends to implement the standard as required in fiscal 2019.
2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (“ASU 2016-15”), which is intended to reduce the diversity in practice in how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows including debt prepayment and extinguishment costs, contingent consideration payments made after a business combination, proceeds from the settlement of insurance claims, and proceeds from the settlement of corporate-owned life insurance.


item2.txt
Also, please refer to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2017, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) on October 26, 2017 (“Form 10-K”).
Acuity Brands is the parent company of Acuity Brands Lighting, Inc. (“ABL”) and other subsidiaries (Acuity Brands, ABL, and such other subsidiaries are collectively referred to herein as the “Company”).
The Company is one of the world’s leading providers of lighting and building management solutions and services for commercial, institutional, industrial, infrastructure, and residential applications throughout North America and select international markets.
Additionally, the Company continues to expand its solutions portfolio to provide a host of other economic benefits, including software and services that enable the Internet of Things (“IoT”).
The Company's IoT solutions provide customers with access to robust data analytics; support the advancement of smart buildings, smart cities, and the smart grid; and allow businesses to develop custom applications to scale their operations.
The ability of the Company to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or to access certain capital markets, including banks, is necessary to fund its operations and capital expenditures, pay dividends, repurchase shares, meet its obligations as they become due, and maintain compliance with covenants contained in its financing agreements.
The Company has repurchased a total of 2.0 million shares in fiscal 2018. interest on borrowings as currently scheduled, making required contributions to its employee benefit plans, funding possible acquisitions, and potentially repurchasing up to 5.2 million shares of its outstanding common stock as authorized by the Board.
Additionally, management believes that the Company’s cash flows from operations and sources of funding, including, but not limited to, future borrowings and capacity, will sufficiently support the long-term liquidity needs of the Company.
The Company uses available cash and cash flow from operations, borrowings on credit arrangements, and proceeds from the exercise of stock options to fund operations, capital expenditures, and acquisitions, to repurchase Company stock, and to pay dividends.
Cash generated from operating activities, as well as cash on-hand, was used during the nine months ended May 31, 2018 primarily to repurchase two million shares of the Company's outstanding common stock for $298.4 million, to fund acquisitions of $163.5 million, to fund capital expenditures of $32.2 million, to pay dividends to stockholders of $16.2 million, and to pay employee taxes on the net settlement of equity awards of $7.2 million.
The Company invested $32.2 million and $55.2 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 and 2017, respectively, primarily related to investments in new equipment, tooling, facility enhancements, and information technology.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Disclosure controls and procedures are controls and other procedures that are designed to reasonably ensure that information required to be disclosed in the reports filed or submitted by the Company under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) rules and forms.


part2.txt
The New Revolving Credit Facility replaced the Company's $250.0 million Revolving Credit Facility with a syndicate of banks,consisting of JP Morgan as the administrative agent and other lenders as parties thereto, which was scheduled to mature on August 27, 2019.
Generally, amounts outstanding under the New Revolving Credit Facility allow for borrowings to bear interest at either the Eurocurrency Rate or the base rate at the Company's option.
The Eurocurrency applicable margin is based on the Company’s leverage ratio, as defined in the Credit Agreement, with such margin ranging from 1.000% to 1.375%.
The base rate applicable margin is based on the Company’s leverage ratio, as defined in the Credit Agreement, with such margin ranging from 0.0% to 0.375%.


