fls.txt
However, the absence of these words or similar expressions does not mean that a statement is not forward-looking.


item1.txt
Our Cold Chain Monitoring Division designs, develops, and markets systems which are used to monitor various environmental parameters such as temperature, humidity, and differential pressure to ensure that critical storage and processing conditions are maintained in hospitals, pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers, blood banks, pharmacies, and laboratory environments.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“U.S. GAAP”) for interim financial information and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
This quarterly report should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements included in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2018.
In August 2018, the SEC issued Release No. 33-10532 that amends and clarifies certain financial reporting requirements.
The principal change to our financial reporting will be the inclusion of the annual disclosure requirement of changes in stockholders’ equity in Rule 3-04 of Regulation S-X to interim periods.
We will adopt this new rule beginning with our financial reporting for the quarter ended December 31, 2018.
The pronouncement requires lessees to recognize a liability for lease obligations, which represents the discounted obligation to make future minimum lease payments, and a corresponding right-of-use asset on the balance sheet for all leases with terms greater than 12 months.
The guidance also requires qualitative and quantitative disclosures designed to present financial statement users with the ability to assess the amount, timing, and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
We have initiated our plan for the adoption and implementation of this new accounting standard, including assessing our lease arrangements, evaluating practical expedients, and making necessary changes to our accounting policies, processes, and internal controls over financial reporting.
We expect to adopt the standard using the optional transition method, which will allow us to apply the standard as of the effective date, therefore we will not apply changes to comparative periods presented in our financial statements.
Effective April 1, 2018, we adopted ASU 2014-09 Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) and all related amendments (referred to collectively hereinafter as “ASU 606”) on a modified retrospective basis.
The primary impact of adoption was the enhancement of disclosures to provide additional clarity regarding how revenue is earned and recognized, and to show revenues at a more disaggregated level, included in Note 2.
The amendments also require any provisional amounts or subsequent adjustments to be included in net income from continuing operations.
Additionally, this ASU discusses required disclosures that an entity must make with regard to the TCJA.
This ASU is effective immediately as new information is available to adjust provisional amounts that were previously recorded.


item2.txt
Item 2.
Management believes that these forward-looking statements are reasonable as and when made.
We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as required by law.
Our Instruments Division designs, manufactures, and markets quality control instruments and disposable products utilized in the healthcare, pharmaceutical, food and beverage, medical device, industrial hygiene, and environmental air sampling industries.
Our Cold Chain Monitoring Division designs, develops, and markets systems which are used to monitor various environmental parameters such as temperature, humidity, and differential pressure to ensure that critical storage and processing conditions are maintained in hospitals, pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers, blood banks, pharmacies, and laboratory environments.
Our Cold Chain Packaging Division provides packaging development consulting services and thermal packaging products such as coolers, boxes, insulation materials, and phase-change products to control temperature during the customer’s transport of their own products.
Service demand is driven by our customers’ quality control and regulatory environments, which require periodic repair and recalibration or certification of our instrument products and cold chain monitoring systems.
During the six months ended September 30, 2018, we continued to build our infrastructure to prepare for future growth, including completing the relocation and sale of the old Bozeman manufacturing facility, moving those operations into the new Bozeman building, the addition of key personnel to our operations, sales and marketing, and research and development teams, and the continued rollout of phase three of our ERP implementation project (European operations).
We are hopeful that we will have new products and services available for sale in the coming year.
Overall revenues increased eight percent, while organic revenues increased three percent, for the three months ended September 30, 2018, resulting from organic increases of nine percent and three percent from the Instruments and SDC Divisions, respectively, partially offset by organic decreases of six percent and 11 percent for the Cold Chain Monitoring and Cold Chain Packaging Divisions, respectively.
Overall revenues increased 10 percent, while organic revenues increased three percent, for the six months ended September 30, 2018, resulting from organic increases of 23 percent, five percent, and two percent from the Cold Chain Packaging, Instruments, and Cold Chain Monitoring Divisions, respectively, partially offset by an organic decrease of one percent for the SDC Division.
Instruments revenues for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 increased nine percent and five percent, respectively, primarily due to the timing of orders and modest price increases.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
“Commitments and Contingencies” within Item 1.


