item1.txt
Our Sterilization and Disinfection Control Division (formerly named the Biological Indicators Division) provides testing services, along with the manufacturing and marketing of both biological and cleaning indicators, and the marketing of chemical indicators used to assess the effectiveness of sterilization and disinfection processes in the hospital, dental, medical device and pharmaceutical industries.
Our Cold Chain Monitoring Division designs, develops and markets systems which are used to monitor various environmental parameters such as temperature, humidity and differential pressure to ensure that critical storage and processing conditions are maintained in hospitals, pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers, blood banks, pharmacies and other laboratory and industrial environments.
The summary of our significant accounting policies is incorporated by reference to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended  March 31, 2017.
In  May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which will replace most existing revenue recognition guidance in U.S. GAAP and is intended to improve and converge with international standards the financial reporting requirements for revenue from contracts with customers.
ASU 2014-09 also requires additional disclosures about the nature, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from customer contracts, including significant judgments and changes in judgments.
ASU 2014-09 allows for adoption either on a full retrospective basis to each prior reporting period presented or on a modified retrospective basis with the cumulative effect of initially applying the new guidance recognized at the date of initial application, which will be effective for the Company beginning  April 1, 2018.
We plan to adopt ASU 2014-09 and its amendments on a modified retrospective basis and are continuing to assess all future impacts of the guidance by reviewing our current contracts with customers to identify potential differences that could result from applying the new guidance.
Based on our review, we expect that the adoption of ASU 2014-09 will not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
As we continue our assessment, we are also identifying and preparing to implement minor changes to our accounting policies and practices, business processes, systems and controls to support the new revenue recognition and disclosure requirements.
During the nine months ended  December 31, 2017, revenues in our Cold Chain Packaging reporting segment decreased significantly as compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to a significant decrease in revenues from our largest customer and the loss of the business of one of our larger customers.
During the three months ended  December 31, 2017 we completed a detailed review of the cold chain packaging business and concluded that long and difficult sales-cycles associated with this product set, when coupled with higher than previously contemplated costs for operating and expanding the necessary infrastructure to support revenues growth have resulted in a forecast of lower than expected revenues, gross margin percentages and overall profitability as compared to our original model for this business.


item2.txt
Our Sterilization and Disinfection Control Division (formerly named the Biological Indicators Division) provides testing services, along with the manufacturing and marketing of both biological and cleaning indicators, and the marketing of chemical indicators used to assess the effectiveness of sterilization and disinfection processes in the hospital, dental, medical device and pharmaceutical industries.
Our Cold Chain Monitoring Division designs, develops and markets systems which are used to monitor various environmental parameters such as temperature, humidity and differential pressure to ensure that critical storage and processing conditions are maintained in hospitals, pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers, blood banks, pharmacies and other laboratory and industrial environments.
Our Cold Chain Packaging Division provides packaging development consulting services and thermal packaging products such as coolers, boxes, insulation materials and phase-change products to control temperature during transport.
During the year ending March 31, 2018, we continue to build our infrastructure to prepare for future growth, including the relocation of our Omaha, Traverse City and old Bozeman manufacturing facilities into the new Bozeman building, the addition of key personnel to our operations, sales and marketing, and research and development teams and the rollout of phase three of our ERP implementation project (European operations).
Overall revenues declined one percent, while organic revenues declined four percent, for the three months ended December 31, 2017, resulting from organic decreases of nine and 36 percent from the Instruments and Cold Chain Packaging Divisions, respectively, partially offset by increases of seven and three percent for the Sterilization and Disinfection Control and Cold Chain Monitoring Divisions, respectively.
Overall revenues were flat, while organic revenues declined two percent, for the nine months ended December 31, 2017 resulting from organic decreases of four, four and 36 percent from the Instruments, Cold Chain Monitoring and Cold Chain Packaging Divisions, respectively, partially offset by an increase of nine percent for the Sterilization and Disinfection Control Division.
During the three months ended June 30, 2017, we elected to discontinue for sale certain products in our Instruments, Cold Chain Monitoring and Sterilization and Disinfection Control Divisions due to the recent introduction of new or modified products and the consolidation of other product sets.
As part of this process, we analyzed the remaining inventories associated with these products to determine future usability and reserved against what we believed to be excess or obsolete, resulting in an increase in our inventory reserve of $406,000 (of which $216,000 related to the Cold Chain Monitoring Division).
At this time, we also established a plan to liquidate certain Cold Chain Monitoring raw material components related to the above-mentioned discontinued products.
During both the three months ended September 30, 2017 and December 31, 2017, we subjected additional inventories to our liquidation program due to the discontinuance or winding-down of additional older product sets resulting from the release of our new ViewPoint operating platform.
During the three months ended December 31, 2017, it became evident that our liquidation program was ineffective, and we determined that a significant amount of these inventories was not recoverable as previously planned.
Company-wide gross margin percentage for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017 was 54 and 56 percent, respectively but would have been 61 and 59 percent, respectively without the impact of these additional inventory reserves.
During the nine months ended December 31, 2017, revenues in our Cold Chain Packaging Division decreased significantly as compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to a significant decrease in revenues from our largest customer and the loss of the business of one of our larger customers.
Due to these two events, we believe that revenues for this segment will now be approximately $2,250,000 to $2,750,000 lower for the year ending March 31, 2018 as compared to the year ended March 31, 2017.


item4.txt
Management evaluated the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in “Internal Control – Integrated Framework” issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in 2013.


part2.txt
Other Information 
Legal Proceedings 
See Note 9 – Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q) for information regarding any legal proceedings in which we may be involved.
We rely on information technology systems, some of which are managed by third parties, to process, transmit and store electronic information (including sensitive data such as confidential business information and personally identifiable data relating to employees, customers and other business partners), and to manage or support a variety of critical business processes and activities.


