fls.txt
However, the absence of these words or similar expressions does not mean that a statement is not forward-looking.


item1.txt
Our Cold Chain Monitoring Division designs, develops, and markets systems which are used to monitor various environmental parameters such as temperature, humidity, and differential pressure to ensure that critical storage and processing conditions are maintained in hospitals, pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers, blood banks, pharmacies, and laboratory environments.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“U.S. GAAP”) for interim financial information and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
This quarterly report should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements included in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2018.
As of December 31, 2018 and March 31, 2018, our financial instruments were categorized as Level 1 (inputs are quoted prices in active markets) and include cash, accounts receivable, accounts payable, accrued liabilities and short-term and long-term debt.
With the exception of long-term debt, the carrying value of these financial instruments is considered to be representative of their fair value due to the short maturity of these instruments.
During the three months ended December 31, 2018, we completed the purchase of Point Six Wireless, LLC.
We made an initial allocation of the purchase price at the date of acquisition based on our understanding of the fair value of acquired assets and assumed liabilities.
In the months after closing, we will obtain additional information about the assets and liabilities acquired, including asset appraisals, and we will refine the estimates of the fair value to more accurately allocate the purchase price.
The pronouncement requires lessees to recognize a liability for lease obligations, which represents the discounted obligation to make future minimum lease payments, and a corresponding right-of-use asset on the balance sheet for all leases with terms greater than 12 months.
We expect to adopt the standard using the optional transition method, which will allow us to apply the standard as of the effective date, therefore we will not apply changes to comparative periods presented in our financial statements.
In August 2018, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued Release No. 33-10532 that amends and clarifies certain financial reporting requirements.
The principal change to our financial reporting is the inclusion of the annual disclosure requirement of changes in stockholders’ equity in Rule 3-04 of Regulation S-X to interim periods.
Effective April 1, 2018, we adopted ASU 2014-09 Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) and all related amendments (referred to collectively hereinafter as “ASU 606”) to all contracts on a modified retrospective basis.
ASU 606 requires an entity to recognize revenue for the transfer of goods or services equal to the amount it expects to be entitled to receive for the goods and services.
The primary impact of adoption was the enhancement of disclosures to provide additional clarity regarding how revenue is earned and recognized, and to show revenues at a more disaggregated level, included in Note 2.


item2.txt
Our Cold Chain Packaging Division provides packaging development consulting services and thermal packaging products such as coolers, boxes, insulation materials, and phase-change products to control temperature during the customer’s transport of their own products.
Sterilization and disinfection control products and most products in our Cold Chain Packaging Division are disposable and are used on a routine basis, thus product sales are less sensitive to general economic conditions.
Service demand is driven by our customers’ quality control and regulatory environments, which require periodic repair and recalibration or certification of our instrument products and cold chain monitoring systems.
During the nine months ended December 31, 2018, we completed a business combination (the “Point Six Wireless Acquisition”) whereby we acquired substantially all of the assets (other than current assets) and certain liabilities of Point Six Wireless, LLC’s continuous monitoring business.
During the nine months ended December 31, 2018, we continued to build our infrastructure to prepare for future growth, including completing the relocation and sale of the old Bozeman manufacturing facility, moving those operations into the new Bozeman building, the addition of key personnel to our operations, sales and marketing, and research and development teams, and the continued rollout of phase three of our ERP implementation project (European operations), which was completed as of December 31, 2018.
During the three months ended December 31, 2018, we performed a financial analysis of the Cold Chain Packaging Division, which revealed that gross profits for the segment continue to decline, primarily due to rising commodity costs.
As a result, we performed an impairment test on the reporting segment, and recognized non-cash impairment charges of $1,028 on goodwill and $2,641 on long-lived assets, in impairment loss on goodwill and long-lived assets on the accompanying condensed consolidated statements of operations.
Instruments revenues for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018 increased 14 percent and eight percent, respectively, primarily due to the timing of orders and modest price increases.
Instrument revenues for the three months ended December 31, 2017 were impacted by a slower than expected adoption of an updated medical product and the discontinuation of its predecessor product.
Cold Chain Packaging revenues increased 29 percent and 26 percent for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018, respectively, as a result of the normalization in the order rate of the division’s largest customer.
Sterilization and Disinfection Control gross profit margin percentage increased for both the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018 primarily as a result of $150 and $503 of moving expenses related to the Bozeman facility that were incurred during the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017, respectively.
Excluding the impact of the moving expenses, gross margin percentage for both periods was essentially flat as compared to the prior year.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
“Commitments and Contingencies” within Item 1.


