The fair values of lead forward contracts are calculated using observable prices for lead as quoted on the London Metal Exchange (“LME”) and, therefore, were classified as Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy, as described in Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the Company's consolidated financial statements included in its 2019 Annual Report.
The awards vest immediately upon the date of grant and are settled in shares of common stock, six months after termination of service as a director.
In keeping with its strategy of exiting the manufacture of batteries for diesel-electric submarines, during the second quarter of fiscal 2020, the Company also sold certain licenses and assets for $2,031 and recorded a net gain of $892, which is reported in exit charges.
The foreign effective income tax rates for the six months of fiscal 2020 and 2019 were (2.4)% and 11.1%, respectively.
During the second quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company also paid $1,272 towards certain aspects related to this matter, which are under appeal.
The Company exercises its judgment to determine the term of those leases when extension or termination options are present and include such options in the calculation of the lease term when it is reasonably certain that the Company will exercise those options.
All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.
As of September 29, 2019, the reserve balance associated with these actions is $865.
See Note 12 for additional information.
This manufacturing facility was closed in 2001 and the Company established a reserve for this facility, which was $1,060 and $1,081 as of September 29, 2019 and March 31, 2019, respectively.There are no prepayment penalties on loans under this credit facility.
Operating earnings decreased $4.6 million or 7.3% and decreased $0.5 million or 0.4% in the second quarter and six months of fiscal 2020, respectively, compared to the second quarter and six months of fiscal 2019.
As provided by the Company’s equity incentive plans, (a) vested options outstanding may be exercised through surrender to the Company of option shares or vested options outstanding under the Company’s equity incentive plans to satisfy the applicable aggregate exercise price (and any withholding tax) required to be paid upon such exercise and (b) the withholding tax requirements related to the vesting and settlement of restricted stock units and market condition-based share units may be satisfied by the surrender of shares of the Company’s common stock.
Operating earnings, as a percentage of net sales, decreased 190 basis points and 140 basis points in the second quarter and six months of fiscal 2020, respectively, compared to the second quarter and six months of fiscal 2019, primarily due to ERP execution challenges at our Richmond, Kentucky, facility which continued to result in missed sales opportunities and higher manufacturing costs as well as the decline in our organic volume across all the regions.
During fiscal 2019, our selling prices rose in response to increased lead and other commodity costs.
Primary working capital for this purpose is trade accounts receivable, plus inventories, minus trade accounts payable.
EnerSys (the “Company,” “we,” or “us”) is the world’s largest manufacturer, marketer and distributor of industrial batteries.We do not use financial instruments for trading purposes and are not a party to any leveraged derivatives.