fls.txt



item1.txt
The Company incurred $1,235 in debt issuance costs and wrote off $483 relating to the Amended Credit Facility.
The Company estimates that the total charges for these actions will amount to approximately $3,600, from cash charges primarily for employee severance-related payments to approximately 150 employees and non-cash charges related to the write-off of fixed assets.
For these arrangements, control transfers over time and the Company measures progress towards completion by selecting the input or output method that best depicts the transfer of control of the underlying goods and services to the customer for each respective arrangement.
Debt issuance costs, net of accumulated amortization were $5,764 and $5,965, respectively, at December 30, 2018 and March 31, 2018.
The Company estimates that the total charges for these actions will amount to approximately $630, from cash charges primarily for employee severance-related payments to approximately 15 employees.
The Company does not enter into derivative contracts for speculative purposes.
If shipping activities are performed after a customer obtains control of a product, the Company applies a policy election to account for shipping as an activity to fulfill the promise to transfer the product to the customer.
Each customer purchase order sets forth the transaction price for the products and services purchased under that arrangement.
The Court of Appeal of Lyon heard arguments on April 9, 2013 and ruled in the Company’s favor on June 11, 2013, entitling the Company to a refund of the monies paid of €2,000, or $2,756.
From time to time, we are involved in litigation incidental to the conduct of our business.
All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.
The ability of Alpha and EnerSys to realize the anticipated benefits of the Transaction will depend, to a large extent, on our ability to combine Alpha’s and our businesses in a manner that facilitates growth opportunities and realizes anticipated synergies, and achieves the projected stand-alone cost savings and revenue growth trends identified by each company.
The Company also enters into foreign currency forward contracts to economically hedge foreign currency fluctuations on intercompany loans and foreign currency denominated receivables and payables.
Additionally, the Company acquired substantially all of the assets of Alpha Technologies Inc. and certain assets of Altair Advanced Industries, Inc. and other affiliates of ATS and ATL (all such sellers, together with ATS and ATL, “Alpha”), in each case in accordance with the terms and conditions of certain restructuring agreements (collectively, the “asset acquisition” and together with the share purchase, the “acquisition”).
As of December 30, 2018 and March 31, 2018, the notional amount of these contracts was $48,131 and $54,164, respectively.
The Company recognizes revenue when (or as) performance obligations are satisfied by transferring control of the performance obligation to a customer.


item2.txt
As explained in the discussion of our use of “non-GAAP financial measures,” we monitor the level and percentage of primary working capital to sales.
EnerSys (the “Company,” “we,” or “us”) is the world’s largest manufacturer, marketer and distributor of industrial batteries.
The Americas segment's operating earnings, excluding restructuring charges, decreased 280 basis points and 220 basis points, in the third quarter and nine months, respectively.
Cash provided by earnings as adjusted for non-cash items was improved by an increase of $89.2 million in long term liabilities primarily due to the one-time transition tax liability on account of the Tax Act and was partially offset by the increase in primary working capital of $42.0 million, net of currency translation changes, and a decrease in accrued expenses of $30.5 million, comprising primarily of legal proceedings related payments, payroll related expenses and income taxes.
The Company believes that it has sufficient sources of domestic and foreign liquidity.
EnerSys’ management uses the non-GAAP measures “primary working capital” and “primary working capital percentage” in its evaluation of business segment cash flow and financial position performance.
Treasury stock open market purchases were $21.2 million, payment of cash dividends to our stockholders were $22.3 million, payment of taxes related to net share settlement of equity awards were $7.5 million and debt issuance costs were $2.7 million.
The tax provision for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 and 2018 was based on the estimated effective tax rates applicable for the full years ending March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2018, respectively, after giving effect to items specifically related to the interim periods.
The majority of that cash and investments is expected to be utilized to fund local operating activities, capital expenditure requirements and acquisitions.
With the recent Alpha acquisition, the Company has commenced making restructuring changes as part of its targeted synergy plans.


item3.txt
We also selectively hedge anticipated transactions that are subject to foreign exchange exposure, primarily with foreign currency exchange contracts, which are designated as cash flow hedges in accordance with Topic 815 - Derivatives and Hedging.
We do not use financial instruments for trading purposes and are not a party to any leveraged derivatives.


item4.txt



part2.txt
From time to time, we are involved in litigation incidental to the conduct of our business.
The United Kingdom’s withdrawal from the European Union could harm our business and financial results.


