In 2016, two putative class actions lawsuit captioned Dixon Chung v. Newport Corp., et al., Case No.
 A-16-734039-B, were filed in the District Court, Clark County, Nevada on behalf of a putative class of stockholders of Newport Corporation (“Newport”) for claims related to the merger agreement (“Newport Merger Agreement”) between the Company, Newport, and a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company (“Merger Sub”).
The lawsuits named as defendants the Company, Newport, Merger Sub, and certain then current and former members of Newport’s board of directors.
Both complaints alleged that Newport directors breached their fiduciary duties to Newport’s stockholders by agreeing to sell Newport through an inadequate and unfair process, which led to inadequate and unfair consideration, by agreeing to unfair deal protection devices and by omitting material information from the proxy statement.
The complaints also alleged that the Company, Newport and Merger Sub aided and abetted the directors’ alleged breaches of their fiduciary duties.
The Court consolidated the actions, and plaintiffs later filed an amended complaint captioned In re Newport Corporation Shareholder Litigation, Case No.
The amended complaint alleged Newport’s former board of directors breached their fiduciary duties to Newport’s stockholders and that the Company, Newport and Merger Sub had aided and abetted these breaches.
 pre- and post-judgment interest.
In June 2017, the Court granted defendants’ motion to dismiss and dismissed the amended complaint against all defendants but granted plaintiffs leave to amend.
On July 27, 2017, plaintiffs filed a second amended complaint containing substantially similar allegations but naming only Newport’s former directors as defendants.
On August 8, 2017, the Court dismissed the Company and Newport from the action.
 pre- and post-judgment interest.
The Court granted a motion for class certification on September 27, 2018, appointing Mr. Pincon
Engineers - Employers Construction Industry Retirement Trust as class representatives.
On June 11, 2018, plaintiff Dixon Chung was voluntarily dismissed from the litigation.
On May 1, 2019, the Court granted the defendants’ motion to strike plaintiffs’ jury demand and determined that the case will be tried by the Court, and not a jury.
A bench trial is scheduled for the first quarter of 2020.
Fact discovery in the action is complete, and expert discovery is ongoing.
10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 other than the supplemental risk factor added below.
General trade tensions between the U.S. and China have been escalating throughout 2018 and 2019, with one round of U.S. tariffs on Chinese goods taking effect in July 2018, a second round in August 2018 and a third round in September 2018.
The Trump Administration subsequently increased its third round of U.S. tariffs on Chinese goods in May 2019 from 10% to 25% and China responded with retaliatory increases to its third round of tariffs on certain U.S. goods in June 2019.
We are exploring and will continue to explore all of our options to reduce the impact of these tariffs on our business, including but not limited to, seeking alternative sources for our components, modifying other business practices, raising our prices, and shifting production outside of China.
In May 2019, the U.S. Department of Commerce’s Bureau of Industry and Security (“BIS”) added Chinese-based Huawei Technologies Co. Ltd. and 68 of its affiliates onto the BIS Entity List, thereby prohibiting the sale of U.S. goods to Huawei, without a license from BIS.
Accordingly, the Company has had to suspend outstanding orders from Huawei, and has been negatively impacted by the cancellation of orders from customers who are providers to Huawei.
In addition, China’s Ministry of Commerce announced in May 2019 that China will introduce an “unreliable entity list” under which non-Chinese entities that cut off suppliers to Chinese companies may be subject to government action.
