10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 26, 2019. 
internal-use software license). The accounting for the service element of a hosting arrangement that is a service contract is not affected by the amendments to this update. This standard is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019, including interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company is currently evaluating the requirements of this ASU and adoption could have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements. 
2017-12, “Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815).” This standard better aligns an entity’s risk management activities and financial reporting for hedging relationships through changes to both the designation and measurement guidance for qualifying hedging relationships and the presentation of hedge results. The provisions of this ASU are effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company adopted this ASU during the first quarter of 2019 and the adoption of this ASU did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements. 
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, “Leases”. This standard requires the recognition of lease assets and liabilities for all leases, with certain exceptions, on the balance sheet. This ASU is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company adopted ASU 2016-02 on January 1, 2019, and used the effective date as its date of initial application. As such, the Company did not adjust prior period amounts. The Company also elected to adopt the package of practical expedients upon transition, which permits companies to not reassess lease identification, classification, and initial direct costs for leases that commenced prior to the effective date.  
The Company implemented internal controls and a lease accounting information system to enable preparation on adoption. Upon adoption, the Company recorded a cumulative effect of initially applying this new standard, resulting in the addition of $71,042 of 
right-of-use assets and $20,192 and $54,147 of short-term and long-term lease liabilities, respectively. The 
right-of-use asset upon adoption of the standard. For additional information on the required disclosures related to the impact of adopting this standard, see Note 3 to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.  
The Company has various operating leases for real estate and non-real estate items. The non-real estate leases are mainly comprised of automobiles but also include copiers, printers and other lower-valued items. The Company does not have any finance leases. 
The Company has lease arrangements with lease and non-lease components, has elected to account for the lease and non-lease components as a single lease component, and has allocated all of the contract consideration to the lease component only. The Company has existing net leases in which the non-lease components (e.g. common area maintenance, maintenance, consumables, etc.) are paid separately from rent based on actual costs incurred. Therefore, non-lease components are not included in the right-of-use asset and lease liability and are reflected as expenses in the periods incurred. 
The Company has existing leases that include variable lease and non-lease components that are not included in the right-of-use asset and lease liability, and are reflected as expenses in the periods incurred. Such payments primarily include common area maintenance charges and increases in rent payments that are driven by factors such as future changes in an index (e.g., the Consumer Price Index). 
right-of-use asset of $68,631, short-term lease liability of $20,670 and long-term lease liability of $51,141 were reflected on the balance sheet as of June 30, 2019.  
5.1 years, respectively, for the period ended June 30, 2019. Operating cash flows used for operating leases for the six months ended June 30, 2019 was $
available-for-sale  investments as of June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, reflect the inclusion within short-term investments of investments with contractual maturities greater than one year from the date of purchase. Management has the ability, if necessary, to liquidate any of its investments in order to meet the Company’s liquidity needs in the next 12 months. Accordingly, those investments with contractual maturities greater than one year from the date of purchase are classified as short-term on the accompanying balance sheets. 
“ex-dividend.” The cost of marketable securities sold is determined by the specific identification method. Realized gains or losses are reflected in income and were not material for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018.   
Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. Level 2 assets and liabilities include debt securities with quoted prices that are traded less frequently than exchange-traded instruments or securities or derivative contracts that are valued using a pricing model with inputs that are observable in the market or can be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data.   
Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities. Level 3 assets and liabilities include financial instruments whose value is determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies, or similar techniques, as well as instruments for which the determination of fair value requires significant management judgment or estimation.   
In certain cases, the inputs used to measure fair value may fall into different levels of the fair value hierarchy. In such cases, the Company categorizes such assets and liabilities based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety. The Company’s assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement in its entirety requires judgment and considers factors specific to the asset or liability.  
The cash and cash equivalent amounts presented in the table above do not include cash of $303,513 as of June 30, 2019.   
The long-term investments presented in the table above do not include the Company’s minority interest investment in a private company, which is accounted for under the cost method.   
The cash and cash equivalent amounts presented in the table above do not include cash of $456,940 as of December 31, 2018.   
The long-term investments presented in the table above do not include the Company’s minority interest investment in a private company, which is accounted for under the cost method.   
Available-for-sale investments consisted of time deposits, certificates of deposit, bankers’ acceptance drafts, asset-backed securities (which include auto loans, credit card receivables and equipment trust receivables), commercial paper, corporate obligations, U.S. treasury obligations, U.S. agency obligations and group insurance contracts.
The Company measures its debt and equity investments at fair value. The Company’s 
available-for-sale investments are classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.
Israeli pension assets represent investments in mutual funds, government securities and other time deposits. These investments are set aside for the retirement benefit of the employees at the Company’s Israeli subsidiaries. These funds are classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. 
By nature, all financial instruments involve market and credit risks. The Company enters into derivative instruments with major investment grade financial institutions, for which no collateral is required. The Company has policies to monitor the credit risk of these counterparties. While there can be no assurance, the Company does not anticipate any material 
non-performance by any of these counterparties.
50% of its then-outstanding balance under the Credit Agreement, as described further in Note 11. This hedge fixes the interest rate paid on the hedged debt at 
1.198% per annum plus the applicable credit spread, which was
 2.0% as of June 30, 2019, through 
September 30, 2020. At June 30, 2019, the notional amount of this transaction was
 $290,000 and had a fair value asset of $6,083. 
2.309% per annum plus the applicable credit spread, which was 
2.25% at June 30, 2019. At June 30, 2019, the notional amount of this transaction was $
eighteen months, using forward foreign exchange contracts accounted for as cash-flow hedges related to Japanese, South Korean, British, Euro and Taiwanese currencies. To the extent these derivatives are effective in off-setting the variability of the hedged cash flows, and otherwise meet the hedge accounting criteria, changes in the derivatives’ fair value are not included in current earnings but are included in OCI in stockholders’ equity. These changes in fair value will subsequently be reclassified into earnings, as applicable, when the forecasted transaction occurs. To the extent that a previously designated hedging transaction is no longer an effective hedge, any ineffectiveness measured in the hedging relationship is recorded currently in earnings in the period it occurs. The cash flows resulting from forward exchange contracts are classified in the consolidated statements of cash flows as part of cash flows from operating activities. The Company does not enter into derivative instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
Represents the receivable (payable) amount included in the consolidated balance sheet.
twelve months is immaterial. 
On February 1, 2019, the Company completed its acquisition of Electro Scientific Industries, Inc. (“ESI”) pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of October 29, 2018 (the “Merger Agreement”), by and among the Company, EAS Equipment, Inc., formerly a Delaware corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, and ESI (the “ESI Merger”). At the effective time of the ESI Merger and pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Merger Agreement, each share of ESI’s common stock that was issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the ESI Merger was converted into the right to receive $30.00 in cash, without interest and subject to deduction of any required withholding tax.  
The aggregate consideration was $1,032,671, which excludes related transaction fees and expenses, and non-cash consideration related to the exchange of share-based awards of $30,630, for a total purchase consideration of $1,063,301. The Company funded the payment of the aggregate consideration with a combination of the Company’s available cash on hand and the proceeds from the Company’s senior secured term loan facility described in Note 11.  
Represents the vested but not issued portion of ESI share-based compensation awards as of the acquisition date of February 1, 2019.   
Under the acquisition method of accounting, the total estimated acquisition consideration is allocated to the acquired tangible and intangible assets and assumed liabilities of ESI based on their fair values as of the acquisition date. Any excess of the acquisition consideration over the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed is allocated to goodwill. The Company expects that none of such goodwill and intangible assets will be deductible for tax purposes.   
During the three months ended June 30, 2019, the Company recorded an increase in fair value of approximately $12,600 to property, plant and equipment, based upon the final valuation for land and three ESI facilities located in Portland, Oregon. The Company also recorded a reduction in fair value of approximately $9,800 to inventories relating to three product lines. These adjustments also resulted in an adjustment to intangible assets of $2,400 and goodwill of $1,300 and the related impact to the deferred tax line items.  
The fair value write-up of acquired finished goods inventory was $7,624, the amount of which will be expensed over the period during which the acquired inventory is sold. Accordingly, for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, the Company recorded $2,484 and $7,624, respectively, of incremental cost of sales charges associated with the fair value write-up of inventory acquired in the ESI Merger. 
The fair value write-up of acquired property, plant and equipment of $39,267 will be amortized over the estimated useful life of the applicable assets, excluding the fair value write-up in the value of land. Property, plant and equipment is valued at its value-in-use, unless there was a known plan to dispose of the asset. 
The acquired intangible assets are being amortized on a straight-line basis, which approximates the economic use of the asset.
The Company believes the amount of goodwill relative to identifiable intangible assets relates to several factors, including broadening its position in key industrial end markets to complementary solutions, and leveraging component and systems expertise to provide robust solutions to meet customer evolving technology needs. 
Certain executives from ESI had severance provisions in their respective ESI employment agreements. The agreements included terms that were accounted for as dual-trigger arrangements. Through the Company’s acquisition accounting, the expense relating to these benefits was recognized in the combined entity’s financial statements. The Company recorded costs of $2,701 and $14,023 in acquisition and integration costs as compensation expense and stock-based compensation expense, respectively, for the six months ended June 30, 2019 associated with these severance provisions. The restricted stock units and stock appreciation rights that were eligible for accelerated vesting if the executive exercised his or her rights but were not issued as of each reporting period-end, were excluded from the computation of basic earnings per share and included in the computation of diluted earnings per share for such reporting period.  
Incremental interest expense related to the Company’s 2019 Incremental Term Loan Facility, as defined and discussed in Note 11.   
The exclusion of acquisition costs and inventory step-up amortization from the three and six month period ended June 30, 2019 and the addition of these items to the three and six month period ended June 30, 2018.   
The exclusion of debt issuance costs due to the modification of the 2019 Incremental Term Loan Facility from the three and six month period ended June 30, 2019 and the addition of this item to the three and six month period ended June 30, 2018.   
The estimated tax impact of the above adjustments.   
During the six months ended June 30, 2019, the Company recorded $472,695 of goodwill related to the ESI Merger.
The Wall Street Journal, (3) a LIBOR rate determined by reference to the costs of funds for U.S. dollar deposits for an interest period of one month adjusted for certain additional costs, plus 1.00%, and (4) a floor of 1.75%, plus, in each case, an applicable margin; or (b) a LIBOR rate determined by reference to the costs of funds for U.S. dollar deposits for the interest period relevant to such borrowing adjusted for certain additional costs, subject to a LIBOR rate floor of 0.75%, plus an applicable margin. The Company has elected the interest rate as described in clause (b). The Credit Agreement provides that, unless an alternate rate of interest is agreed, all loans will be determined by reference to the Base Rate if the LIBOR rate cannot be ascertained, if regulators impose material restrictions on the authority of a lender to make LIBOR rate loans, or for other reasons. The 2016 Term Loan Facility was issued with original issue discount of 1.00​​​​​​​% of the principal amount thereof. 
The Company subsequently entered into four separate repricing amendments to the 2016 Term Loan Facility, which decreased the applicable margin for LIBOR borrowings from 4.0% to 1.75%, with a LIBOR rate floor of 0.75%. As a consequence of the pricing of the 2019 Incremental Term Loan Facility (defined below), the applicable margin for the 2016 Term Loan Facility was increased to 2.00% (from 1.75%) with respect to LIBOR borrowings and 1.00% (from 0.75%) with respect to base rate borrowings. The interest rate on the 2016 Term Loan Facility as of June 30, 2019 was 4.4%. 
On September 30, 2016, the Company entered into an interest rate​​​​​​​ swap agreement, which has a maturity date of September 30, 2020, to fix the rate on $335,000 of the then-outstanding balance of the 2016 Term Loan Facility. The rate is fixed at 1.198% per annum plus the applicable credit spread, which was 2.0% at June 30, 2019. At June 30, 2019, the notional amount of this transaction was $290,000 and had a fair value asset of $2,055. 
50,000 prepayment made during the three months ended June 30, 2019) and regularly scheduled principal payments of $6,536, the total outstanding principal balance of the 2016 Term Loan Facility was $298,464. As a result of making these prepayments, the Company is no longer required to make any regularly scheduled principal payments on the 2016 Term Loan Facility until the maturity date of the loan.
The Company incurred $28,747 of deferred finance fees, original issue discount and repricing fees related to the term loans under the 2016 Term Loan Facility, which are included in long-term debt in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and are being amortized to interest expense over the estimated life of the term loans using the effective interest method. A portion of these fees have been accelerated in connection with the various debt prepayments during 2016, 2017 and 2018. As of June 30, 2019, the remaining balance of the deferred finance fees, original issue discount and repricing fees related to the 2016 Term Loan Facility was $2,648.  
On February 1, 2019, in connection with the completion of the ESI Merger, the Company entered into an amendment (“Amendment No. 5”) to the Credit Agreement. Amendment No. 5 provided an additional tranche 
B-5 term loan commitment in the principal amount of $650,000 (the “2019 Incremental Term Loan Facility”), all of which was drawn down in connection with the closing of the ESI Merger. Pursuant to Amendment No. 5, the Company also effectuated certain amendments to the Credit Agreement which make certain of the negative covenants and other provisions less restrictive. The 2019 Incremental Term Loan Facility matures on February 1, 2026 and bears interest at a rate per annum equal to, at the Company’s option, a base rate or LIBOR rate (as described above) plus, in each case, an applicable margin equal to 1.25% with respect to base rate borrowings and 2.25% with respect to LIBOR borrowings. The 2019 Incremental Term Loan Facility was issued with original issue discount of 1.00% of the principal amount thereof. 
On April 3, 2019, the Company entered into an interest rate swap agreement, which has a maturity date of March 31, 2023, to fix the rate on $300,000 of the then-outstanding balance of the 2019 Incremental Term Loan Facility. The rate is fixed at 2.309% per annum plus the applicable credit spread, which was 2.25% at June 30, 2019. At June 30, 2019, the notional amount of this transaction was $300,000 and had a fair value liability of $6,688. 
The Company incurred $11,362 of deferred finance fees and original issue discount fees related to the term loans under the 2019 Incremental Term Loan Facility, which are included in long-term debt in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and are being amortized to interest expense over the estimated life of the term loans using the effective interest method. As of June 30, 2019, the remaining balance of the deferred finance fees and original issue discount related to the 2019 Incremental Term Loan Facility was $10,895.  
The Company is required to make scheduled quarterly payments each equal to 0.25% of the original principal amount of the 2019 Incremental Term Loan Facility, with the balance due on February 1, 2026. If, on or prior to the date that is six months after the closing date of Amendment No. 5, the Company prepays any loans under the 2019 Incremental Term Loan Facility in connection with a repricing transaction, the Company must pay a prepayment premium of 1.00% of the aggregate principal amount of the loans so prepaid. At June 30, 2019, after regularly scheduled principal payments of $1,625, the total balance outstanding of the 2019 Incremental Term Loan Facility was 
Under the Credit Agreement, the Company is required to prepay outstanding term loans under the 2016 Term Loan Facility and the 2019 Incremental Term Loan Facility, subject to certain exceptions, with portions of its annual excess cash flow as well as with the net cash proceeds of certain asset sales, certain casualty and condemnation events and the incurrence or issuance of certain debt. As a result of the Company’s Total Leverage Ratio, it was not required to make a prepayment of excess cash flow for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018.  
All obligations under the Term Loan Facility are guaranteed by certain of the Company’s domestic subsidiaries, and are collateralized by substantially all of the Company’s assets and the assets of such subsidiaries, subject to certain exceptions and exclusions.  
The Credit Agreement contains customary representations and warranties, affirmative and negative covenants and provisions relating to events of default. If an event of default occurs, the Lenders under the Term Loan Facility will be entitled to take various actions, including the acceleration of amounts due under the Term Loan Facility and all actions generally permitted to be taken by a secured creditor. At June 30, 2019, the Company was in compliance with all covenants under the Credit Agreement.   
ABL Credit Agreement which amended the borrowing base calculation for eligible inventory prior to an initial field examination and appraisal requirements. The borrowing base for the ABL Facility at any time equals the 
. The ABL Facility includes borrowing capacity in the form of letters of credit up to $25,000
The Wall Street Journal, (3) a LIBOR rate determined by reference to the costs of funds for U.S. dollar deposits for an interest period of one month adjusted for certain additional costs, plus 1.00% and (4) a floor of 0.00%; and (b) a LIBOR rate determined by reference to the costs of funds for U.S. dollar deposits for the interest period relevant to such borrowing adjusted for certain additional costs, with a floor of 0.00%. The initial applicable margin for borrowings under the ABL Facility is 0.50% with respect to base rate borrowings and 1.50% with respect to LIBOR borrowings. Commencing with the completion of the first fiscal quarter ending after the closing of the ABL Facility, the applicable margin for borrowings thereunder is subject to upward or downward adjustment each fiscal quarter, based on the average historical excess availability during the preceding quarter.  
In addition to paying interest on any outstanding principal under the ABL Facility, the Company is required to pay a commitment fee in respect of the unutilized commitments thereunder equal to 0.25% per annum. The Company must also pay customary letter of credit fees and agency fees.  
The Company incurred $785 of costs in connection with the ABL Facility, which were capitalized and included in other assets in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet and are being amortized to interest expense over the contractual term of five years of the ABL Facility. As a result of a prior asset-based facility being terminated concurrently with our entry into the ABL Facility, the Company wrote off 
$216 of previously capitalized debt issuance costs.  
The ABL Credit Agreement also contains customary representations and warranties, affirmative covenants and provisions relating to events of default. If an event of default occurs, the lenders under the ABL Facility will be entitled to take various actions, including the acceleration of amounts due under the ABL Facility and all actions permitted to be taken by a secured creditor. The Company has not borrowed against this ABL Facility to date. 
One of the Company’s Japanese subsidiaries has lines of credit and short-term borrowing arrangements with two financial institutions, which arrangements generally expire and are renewed at three-month intervals. The lines of credit provided for aggregate borrowings as of June 30, 2019 of up to an equivalent of $21,312. One of the borrowing arrangements has an interest rate based on the Tokyo Interbank Offer Rate at the time of borrowing and the other has an interest rate based on the Japanese Short-Term Prime Lending Rate. There were no borrowings outstanding under these arrangements at June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.  
9,352 for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.   
The Company’s effective tax rates for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 were 27.2% and 25.3%, respectively. The effective tax rates for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 and related income tax expense, were higher than the U.S. statutory tax rate primarily due to a correction of an out of period error with respect to deferred tax assets related to limitations on the deduction of executive compensation in the amount of $5,023. This correction, which should have been recorded during the three months ended September 30, 2018, increased the Company’s effective tax rates in the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 by 
 $40,766. At December 31, 2018, the total amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits, which excludes interest and penalties, was approximately 
Basic earnings per share (“EPS”) is computed by dividing income available to common stockholders by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period. The computation of diluted EPS is similar to the computation of basic  
EPS except that the denominator is increased to include the number of additional common shares that would have been outstanding (using the treasury stock method) if securities containing potentially dilutive common shares (restricted stock units (“RSUs”) and stock appreciation rights (“SARs”)) had been converted to such common shares, and if such assumed conversion is dilutive. 
For the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, there were approximately 206,000 and 166,000 weighted-average RSUs, respectively, that would have had an anti-dilutive effect on EPS, and would thus need to be excluded from the computation of diluted weighted-average shares.  
For the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, there were approximately 99,000 and 49,000 weighted-average RSUs, respectively, that would have had an anti-dilutive effect on EPS, and would thus need to be excluded from the computation of diluted weighted-average shares.   
The Company grants RSUs to employees and directors under the 2014 Stock Incentive Plan (the “2014 Plan”). The 2014 Plan is administered by the Compensation Committee of the Company’s Board of Directors. The 2014 Plan is intended to attract and retain employees and directors, and to provide an incentive for these individuals to assist the Company to achieve long-range performance goals and to enable these individuals to participate in the long-term growth of the Company.  
all SARs granted under any ESI Plan, whether vested or unvested, that were outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the ESI Merger and held by an individual who was a service provider of ESI as of the date on which the effective time of the ESI Merger occurred.   
As of the effective time of the ESI Merger, based on a formula in the Merger Agreement, (a) such RSUs were converted automatically into RSUs with respect to 736,133 shares of the Company’s common stock (the “Assumed RSUs”), and (b) such SARs were converted automatically into SARs with respect to 12,787 shares of the Company’s common stock (the “Assumed SARs”).  
These shares will not become issued shares until their respective release dates. 
S-8.  These shares are in addition to the 18,000,000 shares of the Company’s common stock reserved for issuance under the Company’s 2014 Plan and previously registered under the Securities Act of 1933 on the Registration Statement on Form 
no SARs granted during the six months ended June 30, 2019 or 2018.  
commenced, suspended or discontinued at any time without prior notice. The Company has repurchased approximately 
127,000 pursuant to the program since its adoption. During the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, there were no repurchases of common stock.
Holders of the Company’s common stock are entitled to receive dividends when they are declared by the Company’s Board of Directors. In addition, the Company accrues dividend equivalents on the RSUs the Company assumed in the ESI Merger described in Note 15 above when dividends are declared by the Company’s Board of Directors. The Company’s Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $
 per share. The Company’s Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of 
 per share.
July 29, 2019, the Company’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.20 per share to be paid on 
The Company is a global provider of instruments, subsystems and process control solutions that measure, monitor, deliver, analyze, power and control critical parameters of advanced manufacturing processes to improve process performance and productivity for its customers. The Company’s products are derived from its core competencies in pressure measurement and control, flow measurement and control, gas and vapor delivery, gas composition analysis, residual gas analysis, leak detection, control technology, ozone generation and delivery, power, reactive gas generation, vacuum technology, lasers, photonics, 
sub-micron positioning, vibration control, optics and laser-based manufacturing solutions. The Company also provides services relating to the maintenance and repair of its products, installation services and training. The Company’s primary served markets include semiconductor, industrial technologies, life and health sciences, and research and defense.
Long-lived assets include property, plant and equipment, net and certain other long-term assets, excluding long-term tax related accounts.   
during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively, primarily related to severance costs as a result of streamlining and consolidating certain administrative functions.  
In 2016, two putative class actions lawsuit captioned Dixon Chung v. Newport Corp., et al., Case No. A-16-733154-C, and Hubert C. Pincon v. Newport Corp., et al., Case No. A-16-734039-B, were filed in the District Court, Clark County, Nevada on behalf of a putative class of stockholders of Newport for claims related to the merger agreement (“Newport Merger Agreement”) between the Company, Newport, and a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company (“Merger Sub”). The lawsuits named as defendants the Company, Newport, Merger Sub, and certain then current and former members of Newport’s board of directors. Both complaints alleged that Newport directors breached their fiduciary duties to Newport’s stockholders by agreeing to sell Newport through an inadequate and unfair process, which led to inadequate and unfair consideration, by agreeing to unfair deal protection devices and by omitting material information from the proxy statement. The complaints also alleged that the Company, Newport and Merger Sub aided and abetted the directors’ alleged breaches of their fiduciary duties. The Court consolidated the actions, and plaintiffs later filed an amended complaint captioned In re Newport Corporation Shareholder Litigation, Case No. A-16-733154-B, in the District Court, Clark County, Nevada, on behalf of a putative class of Newport’s stockholders for claims related to the Newport Merger Agreement. The amended complaint alleged Newport’s former board of directors breached their fiduciary duties to Newport’s stockholders and that the Company, Newport and Merger Sub had aided and abetted those breaches. It sought monetary damages, including pre- and post-judgment interest. In June 2017, the Court granted defendants’ motion to dismiss and dismissed the amended complaint against all defendants but granted plaintiffs leave to amend. 
On July 27, 2017, plaintiffs filed a second amended complaint containing substantially similar allegations but naming only Newport’s former directors as defendants. On August 8, 2017, the Court dismissed the Company and Newport from the action. The second amended complaint seeks monetary damages, including pre- and post-judgment interest. The Court granted a motion for class certification on September 27, 2018, appointing Mr. Pincon and Locals 302 and 612 of the International Union of Operating Engineers - Employers Construction Industry Retirement Trust as class representatives. On June 11, 2018, plaintiff Dixon Chung was voluntarily dismissed from the litigation. On May 1, 2019, the Court granted the defendants’ motion to strike plaintiffs’ jury demand and determined that the case will be tried by the Court, and not a jury. A bench trial is scheduled for the first quarter of 2020. Fact discovery in the action is complete, and expert discovery is ongoing. 
In 2016, two putative class actions lawsuit captioned Dixon Chung v. Newport Corp., et al., Case No.
 A-16-734039-B, were filed in the District Court, Clark County, Nevada on behalf of a putative class of stockholders of Newport Corporation (“Newport”) for claims related to the merger agreement (“Newport Merger Agreement”) between the Company, Newport, and a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company (“Merger Sub”). The lawsuits named as defendants the Company, Newport, Merger Sub, and certain then current and former members of Newport’s board of directors. Both complaints alleged that Newport directors breached their fiduciary duties to Newport’s stockholders by agreeing to sell Newport through an inadequate and unfair process, which led to inadequate and unfair consideration, by agreeing to unfair deal protection devices and by omitting material information from the proxy statement. The complaints also alleged that the Company, Newport and Merger Sub aided and abetted the directors’ alleged breaches of their fiduciary duties. The Court consolidated the actions, and plaintiffs later filed an amended complaint captioned In re Newport Corporation Shareholder Litigation, Case No.
 A-16-733154-B, in the District Court, Clark County, Nevada, on behalf of a putative class of Newport’s stockholders for claims related to the Newport Merger Agreement. The amended complaint alleged Newport’s former board of directors breached their fiduciary duties to Newport’s stockholders and that the Company, Newport and Merger Sub had aided and abetted these breaches. It sought monetary damages, including
 pre- and post-judgment interest. In June 2017, the Court granted defendants’ motion to dismiss and dismissed the amended complaint against all defendants but granted plaintiffs leave to amend.   
On July 27, 2017, plaintiffs filed a second amended complaint containing substantially similar allegations but naming only Newport’s former directors as defendants. On August 8, 2017, the Court dismissed the Company and Newport from the action. The second amended complaint seeks monetary damages, including
 pre- and post-judgment interest. The Court granted a motion for class certification on September 27, 2018, appointing Mr. Pincon  
Engineers - Employers Construction Industry Retirement Trust as class representatives. On June 11, 2018, plaintiff Dixon Chung was voluntarily dismissed from the litigation. On May 1, 2019, the Court granted the defendants’ motion to strike plaintiffs’ jury demand and determined that the case will be tried by the Court, and not a jury. A bench trial is scheduled for the first quarter of 2020. Fact discovery in the action is complete, and expert discovery is ongoing.   
 ITEM 1A. 
10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 other than the supplemental risk factor added below. 
In May 2019, the U.S. Department of Commerce’s Bureau of Industry and Security (“BIS”) added Chinese-based Huawei Technologies Co. Ltd. and 68 of its affiliates onto the BIS Entity List, thereby prohibiting the sale of U.S. goods to Huawei, without a license from BIS. Accordingly, the Company has had to suspend outstanding orders from Huawei, and has been negatively impacted by the cancellation of orders from customers who are providers to Huawei. In addition, China’s Ministry of Commerce announced in May 2019 that China will introduce an “unreliable entity list” under which non-Chinese entities that cut off suppliers to Chinese companies may be subject to government action.  
