A-16-734039-B, were filed in the District Court, Clark County, Nevada on behalf of a putative class of stockholders of Newport Corporation (“Newport”) for claims related to the merger agreement (“Newport Merger Agreement”) between the Company, Newport, and a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company (“Merger Sub”).
The complaints also alleged that the Company, Newport and Merger Sub aided and abetted the directors’ alleged breaches of their fiduciary duties.
The Court consolidated the actions, and plaintiffs later filed an amended complaint captioned In re Newport Corporation Shareholder Litigation, Case No.
A-16-733154-B, in the District Court, Clark County, Nevada, on behalf of a putative class of Newport’s stockholders for claims related to the Newport Merger Agreement.
The amended complaint alleged Newport’s former board of directors breached their fiduciary duties to Newport’s stockholders and that the Company, Newport and Merger Sub had aided and abetted these breaches.
pre- and post-judgment interest.
In June 2017, the Court granted defendants’ motion to dismiss and dismissed the amended complaint against all defendants but granted plaintiffs leave to amend.
On July 27, 2017, plaintiffs filed a second amended complaint containing substantially similar allegations but naming only Newport’s former directors as defendants.
On August 8, 2017, the Court dismissed the Company and Newport from the action.
 pre- and post-judgment interest.
The Court granted a motion for class certification on September 27, 2018, appointing Mr. Pincon and Locals 302 and 612 of the International Union of Operating Engineers - Employers Construction Industry Retirement Trust as class representatives.
On June 11, 2018, plaintiff Dixon Chung was voluntarily dismissed from the litigation.
On May 1, 2019, the Court granted the defendants’ motion to strike plaintiffs’ jury demand and determined that the case will be tried by the Court, and not a jury.
Discovery in the action is complete.
On August 9, 2019, plaintiffs filed a motion for leave to file a third amended complaint, which was denied on October 10, 2019.
A bench trial is scheduled for January 2020.
 ITEM 6.
