10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 26, 2019.  
2018-16,  “Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815).” This standard permits the use of the Overnight Index Swap Rate (“OIS”) based on the Secured Overnight Financing Rate as a U.S. benchmark interest rate for hedge accounting purposes under Topic 815 in addition to the interest rates on direct treasury obligations of the U.S. government, the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) swap rate, the OIS rate based on the Federal Funds Effective Rate and the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association Municipal Swap Rate. This standard is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company adopted this ASU during the first quarter of 2019 and the adoption of this ASU did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements. 
internal-use software license). The accounting for the service element of a hosting arrangement that is a service contract is not affected by the amendments to this update. This standard is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019, including interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company is currently evaluating the requirements of this ASU and 
the impact of pending adoption on the Company’s consolidated financial statements. 
2016-02, “Leases”. This standard requires the recognition of lease assets and liabilities for all leases, with certain exceptions, on the balance sheet. This ASU is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company adopted ASU 
2016-02 on January 1, 2019, and used the effective date as its date of initial application. As such, the Company did not adjust prior period amounts. The Company also elected to adopt the package of practical expedients upon transition, which permits companies to not reassess lease identification, classification, and initial direct costs for leases that commenced prior to the effective date. 
The Company implemented internal controls and a lease accounting information system to enable preparation on adoption. Upon adoption, the Company recorded a cumulative effect of initially applying this new standard, resulting in the addition of $71,042 of 
right-of-use assets and $20,192 and $54,147 of short-term and long-term lease liabilities, respectively. The 
right-of-use asset upon adoption of the standard. For additional information on the required disclosures related to the impact of adopting this standard, see Note 3 to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements. 
non-real estate leases are mainly comprised of automobiles but also include copiers, printers and other lower-valued items. The Company does not have any finance leases. 
non-lease  components as a single lease component, and has allocated all of the contract consideration to the lease component only. The Company has existing net leases in which the 
non-lease components (e.g. common area maintenance, maintenance, consumables, etc.) are paid separately from rent based on actual costs incurred. Therefore, 
right-of-use  asset and lease liability, and are reflected as expenses in the periods incurred. Such payments primarily include common area maintenance charges and increases in rent payments that are driven by factors such as future changes in an index (e.g., the Consumer Price Index). 
right-of-use asset of $67,632, short-term lease liability of $20,575 and long-term lease liability of $47,294 were reflected on the balance sheet as of September 30, 2019. 
The weighted average discount rate and the weighted average remaining lease term were 3.8
Refer to Note 17 for revenue by reportable segment, geography and groupings of similar products.  
available-for-sale  investments as of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, reflect the inclusion within short-term investments of investments with contractual maturities greater than one year from the date of purchase. Management has the ability, if necessary, to liquidate any of its investments in order to meet the Company’s liquidity needs in the next 12 months. Accordingly, those investments with contractual maturities greater than one year from the date of purchase are classified as short-term on the accompanying balance sheets.
Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. Level 2 assets and liabilities include debt securities with quoted prices that are traded less frequently than exchange-traded instruments or securities or derivative contracts that are valued using a pricing model with inputs that are observable in the market or can be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data.  
Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities. Level 3 assets and liabilities include financial instruments whose value is determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies, or similar techniques, as well as instruments for which the determination of fair value requires significant management judgment or estimation. 
The cash and cash equivalent amounts presented in the table above do not include cash of $307,011 as of September 30, 2019.
The long-term investments presented in the table above do not include the Company’s minority interest investment in a private company, which is accounted for under the cost method.
The cash and cash equivalent amounts presented in the table above do not include cash of $456,940 as of December 31, 2018.
The long-term investments presented in the table above do not include the Company’s minority interest investment in a private company, which is accounted for under the cost method.
Money market funds are cash and cash equivalents and are classified within Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy.  
Available-for-sale investments consisted of time deposits, certificates of deposit, bankers’ acceptance drafts, asset-backed securities (which include auto loans, credit card receivables and equipment trust receivables), commercial paper, corporate obligations, U.S. treasury obligations, U.S. agency obligations and group insurance contracts. 
The Company measures its debt and equity investments at fair value. The Company’s 
available-for-sale investments are classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. 
Israeli pension assets represent investments in mutual funds, government securities and other time deposits. These investments are set aside for the retirement benefit of the employees at the Company’s Israeli subsidiaries. These funds are classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.  
non-controlling equity investment in a privately held company. The Company elected the measurement alternative for this investment without readily determinable fair values and for which the Company does not have the ability to exercise significant influence. This investment is accounted for under the cost method of accounting. Under the cost method of accounting, the 
By nature, all financial instruments involve market and credit risks. The Company enters into derivative instruments with major investment grade financial institutions, for which no collateral is required. The Company has policies to monitor the credit risk of these counterparties. While there can be no assurance, the Company does not anticipate any material 
non-performance by any of these counterparties. 
50% of its then-outstanding balance under the 2016 Term Loan Facility, as described further in Note 11. This hedge fixes the interest rate paid on the hedged debt at 
1.198% per annum plus the applicable credit spread, which was 
1.75% as of September 30, 2019, through 
On April 3, 2019, the Company entered into an interest rate swap agreement, which has a maturity date of March 31, 2023, to fix the rate on $300,000 of the then-outstanding balance of the 2019 Incremental Term Loan Facility, as described further in Note 11. The rate 
was fixed at 2.309% per annum plus the applicable credit spread, which was 1.75% at September 30, 2019. At September 30, 2019, the notional amount of this transaction was $300,000 and 
it had a fair value liability of $8,088.   
The Company hedges a portion of its forecasted foreign currency-denominated intercompany sales of inventory, over a maximum period of eighteen months, using forward foreign exchange contracts accounted for as cash-flow hedges related to Japanese, South Korean, British, Euro and Taiwanese currencies. To the extent these derivatives are effective in 
As of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the Company had outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts with gross notional values of $142,789 and $159,394, respectively. 
The net amount of existing gains as of September 30, 2019 that the Company expects to reclassify from OCI into earnings within the next twelve months is immaterial.  
Net change in the fair value of the effective portion classified in OCI.   
Electro Scientific Industries, Inc. 
On February 1, 2019, the Company completed its acquisition of Electro Scientific Industries, Inc. (“ESI”) pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of October 29, 2018 (the “Merger Agreement”), by and among the Company, EAS Equipment, Inc., formerly a Delaware corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, and ESI (the “ESI Merger”). At the effective time of the ESI Merger and pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Merger Agreement, each share of ESI’s common stock that was issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the ESI Merger was converted into the right to receive $30.00 in cash, without interest and subject to deduction of any required withholding tax. 
non-cash consideration related to the exchange of share-based awards of $30,630, for a total purchase consideration of $1,063,301. The Company funded the payment of the aggregate consideration with a combination of the Company’s available cash on hand and the proceeds from the Company’s senior secured term loan facility described in Note 11.
Represents the vested but not issued portion of ESI share-based compensation awards as of the acquisition date of February 1, 2019.   
Under the acquisition method of accounting, the total estimated acquisition consideration is allocated to the acquired tangible and intangible assets and assumed liabilities of ESI based on their fair values as of the acquisition date. Any excess of the acquisition consideration over the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed is allocated to goodwill. The Company expects that none of such goodwill and intangible assets will be deductible for tax purposes.  
 2019, the Company recorded an increase in fair value of approximately $12,600 to property, plant and equipment, based upon the final valuation for land and three ESI facilities located in Portland, Oregon. The Company also recorded a reduction in fair value of approximately $9,800 to inventories relating to three product lines. These adjustments also resulted in an adjustment to intangible assets of $2,400 and goodwill of $1,300 and the related impact to the deferred tax line items. 
write-up of acquired finished goods inventory was $7,624, the amount of which will be expensed over the period during which the acquired inventory is sold. 
write-up of inventory acquired in the ESI Merger.   
 in the value of land. Property, plant and equipment is valued at its 
 unless there was a known plan to dispose of the asset.
The acquired intangible assets are being amortized on a straight-line basis, which approximates the economic use of the asset. 
The Company believes the amount of goodwill relative to identifiable intangible assets relates to several factors, including broadening its position in key industrial end markets to complementary solutions, and leveraging component and systems expertise to provide robust solutions to meet customer evolving technology needs. 
September 30, 2019 associated with these severance provisions. The restricted stock units and stock appreciation rights that were eligible for accelerated vesting if the executive exercised his or her rights but were not issued as of each reporting 
period-end, were excluded from the computation of basic earnings per share and included in the computation of diluted earnings per share for such reporting period.
Incremental interest expense related to the Company’s 2019 Incremental Term Loan Facility, as defined and discussed in Note 11.   
step-up amortization from the three and nine month periods ended September 30, 2019 and the addition of these items to the three and nine month periods ended September 30, 2018.   
The exclusion of debt issuance costs due to the modification of the 2019 Incremental Term Loan Facility from the three and nine month periods ended September 30, 2019 and the addition of this item to the three and nine month periods ended September 30, 2018.   
The estimated tax impact of the above adjustments.   
During the third quarter of 2019, the Company identified adjustments related to our unaudited pro forma disclosures that were reported during the first and second quarters of 2019. The impact of these adjustments has been revised for all periods presented above.    
During the nine months ended September 30, 2019, the Company recorded $471,727 of goodwill related to the ESI Merger.   
Aggregate amortization expense related to acquired intangibles for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 was $50,299 and $32,786, respectively. 
Prior to the effectiveness of Amendment No. 6 (as defined below), the 2016 Term Loan Facility 
had a maturity date of April 29, 2023. 
The Wall Street Journal, (3) a LIBOR rate determined by reference to the costs of funds for U.S. dollar deposits for an interest period of one month adjusted for certain additional costs, plus 1.00%, and (4) a floor of 1.75%, plus, in each case, an applicable margin; or (b) a LIBOR rate determined by reference to the costs of funds for U.S. dollar deposits for the interest period relevant to such borrowing adjusted for certain additional costs, subject to a LIBOR rate floor of 0.0%, plus an applicable margin. The Company has elected the interest rate as described in clause (b). The Credit Agreement provides that, unless an alternate rate of interest is agreed, all loans will be determined by reference to the 
rate if the LIBOR rate cannot be ascertained, if regulators impose material restrictions on the authority of a lender to make LIBOR rate loans, or for other reasons. The 2016 Term Loan Facility was issued with original issue discount of 1.00% of the principal amount thereof. 
four separate repricing amendments to the 2016 Term Loan Facility, which decreased the applicable margin for LIBOR borrowings from 4.0% to 1.75%, with a LIBOR rate floor of 0.75%. As a consequence of the pricing of the 2019 Incremental Term Loan Facility (defined below), the applicable margin for the 2016 Term Loan Facility was increased to 2.00% (from 1.75%) with respect to LIBOR borrowings and 1.00% (from 0.75%) with respect to base rate borrowings. 
September 30, 2020, to fix the rate on $335,000 of the then-outstanding balance of the 2016 Term Loan Facility. The rate 
was fixed at 1.198% per annum plus the applicable credit spread, which was 
1.75% at September 30, 2019. At September 30, 2019, the notional amount of this transaction was $250,000 and 
it had a fair value asset of $1,180.     
The Company incurred $28,747 of deferred finance fees, original issue discount and repricing fees related to the term loans under the 2016 Term Loan Facility, which are included in long-term debt in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and are being amortized to interest expense over the estimated life of the term loans using the effective interest method.
On February 1, 2019, in connection with the completion of the ESI Merger, the Company entered into an amendment (“Amendment No. 5”) to the Credit Agreement. Amendment No. 5 provided an additional tranche 
original principal amount of $650,000 (the “2019 Incremental Term Loan Facility”), all of which was drawn down in connection with the closing of the ESI Merger. Pursuant to Amendment No. 5, the Company also effectuated certain amendments to the Credit Agreement which make certain of the negative covenants and other provisions less restrictive. Prior to the effectiveness of Amendment No. 6 (as defined below), the 2019 Incremental Term Loan Facility had a maturity date of February 1, 2026 and bore interest at a rate per annum equal to, at the Company’s option, a base rate or LIBOR rate (as described above) plus, in each case, an applicable margin equal to 1.25% with respect to base rate borrowings and 2.25% with respect to LIBOR borrowings. The 2019 Incremental Term Loan Facility was issued with original issue discount of 1.00% of the principal amount thereof. 
On April 3, 2019, the Company entered into an interest rate swap agreement, which has a maturity date of March 31, 2023, to fix the rate on $300,000 of the then-outstanding balance of the 2019 Incremental Term Loan Facility. The rate 
was fixed at 2.309% per annum plus the applicable credit spread, which was 1.75% at September 30, 2019. At September 30, 2019, the notional amount of this transaction was $300,000 and 
it had a fair value liability of $8,088.  
The Company incurred $11,362 of deferred finance fees and original issue discount fees related to the term loans under the 2019 Incremental Term Loan Facility, which are included in long-term debt in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and are being amortized to interest expense over the estimated life of the term loans using the effective interest method. 
On September 27, 2019, the Company entered into an amendment (“Amendment No. 6”) to the Credit Agreement. Amendment No. 6 refinanced all existing loans outstanding under the 2016 Term Loan Facility and 2019 Incremental Term Loan Facility (“Existing Term Loans”) for a tranche 
 term loan commitment in the original principal amount of $896,839 (“2019 Term Loan Refinancing Facility”). Each lender of the Existing Term Loans who elected to participate in the 2019 Term Loan Refinancing Facility was deemed to have exchanged the aggregate outstanding principal amount of its Existing Term Loans outstanding under the Credit Agreement for an equal aggregate principal amount of tranche
the Existing Term Loans on a pro rata basis.  
The Company incurred $2,242 of original issue discount fees related to the term loans under the 2019 Term Loan Refinancing Facility, which are included in long-term debt in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and are being amortized to interest expense over the estimated life of the term loans using the effective interest method.  
As of September 30, 2019, the remaining balance of deferred finance fees and original issue discount of the Term Loan Facility was $12,258. A portion of the deferred finance fees and original issue discount have been accelerated in connection with the various debt prepayments and extinguishments during 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019.  
The 2019 Term Loan Refinancing Facility matures on February 2, 2026, and bears interest at a rate per annum equal to, at the Company’s option, a base rate or LIBOR rate (as described above) plus, in each case, an applicable margin equal to 0.75% with respect to base rate borrowings and 1.75% with respect to LIBOR borrowings. The 2019 Term Loan Refinancing Facility was issued with original issue discount of 0.25% of the principal amount thereof.   
The Company is required to make scheduled quarterly payments each equal to 0.25% of the original principal amount of the 2019 Term Loan 
February 2, 2026. If, on or prior to the date that is six months after the closing date of Amendment No. 
All obligations under the Term Loan Facility are guaranteed by certain of the Company’s domestic subsidiaries, and are collateralized by substantially all of the Company’s assets and the assets of such subsidiaries, subject to certain exceptions and exclusions.  
The Credit Agreement contains customary representations and warranties, affirmative and negative covenants and provisions relating to events of default. If an event of default occurs, the Lenders under the Term Loan Facility will be entitled to take various actions, including the acceleration of amounts due under the Term Loan Facility and all actions generally permitted to be taken by a secured creditor. At September 30, 2019, the Company was in compliance with all covenants under the Credit Agreement.  
The Wall Street Journal, (3) a LIBOR rate determined by reference to the costs of funds for U.S. dollar deposits for an interest period of one month adjusted for certain additional costs, plus 1.00% and (4) a floor of 0.00%; and (b) a LIBOR rate determined by reference to the costs of funds for U.S. dollar deposits for the interest period relevant to such borrowing adjusted for certain additional costs, with a floor of 0.00%. The initial applicable margin for borrowings under the ABL Facility is 0.50% with respect to base rate borrowings and 1.50% with respect to LIBOR borrowings. 
Commencing with the completion of the first fiscal quarter ending after the closing of the ABL Facility, the applicable margin for borrowings thereunder is subject to upward or downward adjustment each fiscal quarter, based on the average historical excess availability during the preceding quarter. 
In addition to paying interest on any outstanding principal under the ABL Facility, the Company is required to pay a commitment fee in respect of the unutilized commitments thereunder equal to 0.25% per annum. The Company must also pay customary letter of credit fees and agency fees. 
The Company incurred $785 of costs in connection with the ABL Facility, which were capitalized and included in other assets in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet and are being amortized to interest expense over the contractual term of five years of the ABL Facility. As a result of a prior asset-based facility being terminated concurrently with our entry into the ABL Facility, the Company wrote off $216 of previously capitalized debt issuance costs.  
One of the Company’s Japanese subsidiaries has lines of credit and short-term borrowing arrangements with two financial institutions, which arrangements generally expire and are renewed at three-month intervals. The lines of credit provided for aggregate borrowings as of September 30, 2019 of up to an equivalent of $21,308. One of the borrowing arrangements has an interest rate based on the Tokyo Interbank Offer Rate at the time of borrowing and the other has an interest rate based on the Japanese Short-Term Prime Lending Rate. There were no borrowings outstanding under these arrangements at September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.  
The Company has various revolving lines of credit and a financing facility. These revolving lines of credit and financing facility have no expiration date and as of September 30, 2019, provided for aggregate borrowings of up to an equivalent of $11,581. These lines of credit have a base interest rate of 1.24% plus a Japanese Yen overnight LIBOR rate. Total borrowings outstanding under these arrangements were $3,655 and $3,389 at September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.    
, respectively. The Company recognized interest expense of $3,719 and $13,071 for the three and nine months 
ended September 30, 2018, respectively.
The Company’s effective tax rates for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 were 14.4% and 20.4%, 
out-of-period  error with respect to deferred tax assets related to limitations on the deduction of executive compensation in the amount of $5,023. This correction, which was recorded during the quarter ended June 30, 2019, but should have been recorded during the three months ended September 30, 2018, increased the Company’s effective tax rate for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 and the nine months ended September 30, 2019 by 9.8%, 7.5% and
tment were not material to prior or current interim and annual financial statements. 
As of September 30, 2019, the total amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits, which excludes interest and penalties, was approximately $41,170. At December 31, 2018, the total amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits, which excludes interest and penalties, was approximately $32,684. The net increase was primarily attributable to the addition of historical gross unrecognized tax benefits for ESI as a result of the ESI Merger during the quarter ended March 31, 2019. As of 
Basic earnings per share (“EPS”) is computed by dividing income available to common stockholders by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period. The computation of diluted EPS is similar to the computation of basic EPS except that the denominator is increased to include the number of additional common shares that would have been outstanding (using the treasury stock method) if securities containing potentially dilutive common shares (restricted stock units (“RSUs”) and stock appreciation rights (“SARs”)) had been converted to such common shares, and if such assumed conversion is dilutive. 
165,000 weighted-average RSUs, respectively, that would have had an anti-dilutive effect on EPS, and would thus need to be excluded from the computation of diluted weighted-average shares. 
68,800 weighted-average RSUs, respectively, that would have had an anti-dilutive effect on EPS, and would thus need to be excluded from the computation of diluted weighted-average shares.
 to employees and directors under the 2014 Stock Incentive Plan (the “2014 Plan”). The 2014 Plan is administered by the Compensation Committee of the Company’s Board of Directors. The 2014 Plan is intended to attract and retain employees and directors, and to provide an incentive for these individuals to assist the Company to achieve long-range performance goals and to enable these individuals to participate in the long-term growth of the 
 S-8.  These shares are in addition to the 18,000,000 shares of the Company’s common stock reserved for issuance under the Company’s 2014 Plan and previously registered under the Securities Act of 1933 on the Registration Statement on Form
 30, 2018, the Company granted 260,341 RSUs with a weighted average grant date fair value of $112.49. There were no SARs granted during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 or 2018. 
During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, the Company repurchased approximately 818,000 shares of its common stock for $75,000, or an average of $91.67 per share
Holders of the Company’s common stock are entitled to receive dividends when they are declared by the Company’s Board of Directors. In addition, the Company accrues dividend equivalents on the RSUs the Company assumed in the ESI Merger described in Note 15 above when dividends are declared by the Company’s Board of Directors. The Company’s Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.20 per share during each of the first, second and third quarters of 2019, which totaled $32,621 or $0.60 per share. The Company’s Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.18 per share during the first quarter of 2018 and $0.20 per share during the second and third quarters of 2018, which totaled $31,608 or $0.58 per share.  
On October 28, 2019, the Company’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.20 per share to be paid on December 6, 2019 to shareholders of record as of November 25, 2019. Future dividend declarations, if any, as well as the record and payment dates for such dividends, are subject to the final determination of the Company’s Board of Directors. In addition, under the 
Term Loan Facility and ABL Facility, the Company may be restricted from paying dividends under certain circumstances.  
The Company is a global provider of instruments, subsystems and process control solutions that measure, monitor, deliver, analyze, power and control critical parameters of advanced manufacturing processes to improve process performance and productivity for its customers. The Company’s products are derived from its core competencies in pressure measurement and control, flow measurement and control, gas and vapor delivery, gas composition analysis, residual gas analysis, leak detection, control technology, ozone generation and delivery, power, reactive gas generation, vacuum technology, lasers, photonics, 
sub-micron positioning, vibration control, optics and laser-based manufacturing solutions. The Company also provides services relating to the maintenance and repair of its products, installation services and training. The Company’s primary served markets include semiconductor, industrial technologies, life and health sciences, and research and defense. 
sub-micron positioning, vibration control, and optics. 
Information about the Company’s operations in different geographic regions is presented in the tables below. Net revenues to unaffiliated customers are based on the location in which the sale originated.
Long-lived assets include property, plant and equipment, net and certain other long-term assets, excluding long-term tax related accounts.
September 30, 2018, respectively, primarily related to severance costs as a result of streamlining and consolidating certain administrative functions.  
A-16-734039-B, were filed in the District Court, Clark County, Nevada on behalf of a putative class of stockholders of Newport for claims related to the merger agreement (“Newport Merger Agreement”) between the Company, Newport, and a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company (“Merger Sub”). The lawsuits named as defendants the Company, Newport, Merger Sub, and certain then current and former members of Newport’s board of directors. Both complaints alleged that Newport directors breached their fiduciary duties to Newport’s stockholders by agreeing to sell Newport through an inadequate and unfair process, which led to inadequate and unfair consideration, by agreeing to unfair deal protection devices and by omitting material information from the proxy statement. The complaints also alleged that the Company, Newport and Merger Sub aided and abetted the directors’ alleged breaches of their fiduciary duties. The Court consolidated the actions, and plaintiffs later filed an amended complaint captioned In re Newport Corporation Shareholder Litigation, Case No. 
A-16-733154-B, in the District Court, Clark County, Nevada, on behalf of a putative class of Newport’s stockholders for claims related to the Newport Merger Agreement. The amended complaint alleged Newport’s former board of directors breached their fiduciary duties to Newport’s stockholders and that the Company, Newport and Merger Sub had aided and abetted those breaches. It sought monetary damages, including 
pre- and post-judgment interest. In June 2017, the Court granted defendants’ motion to dismiss and dismissed the amended complaint against all defendants but granted plaintiffs leave to amend.  
On July 27, 2017, plaintiffs filed a second amended complaint containing substantially similar allegations but naming only Newport’s former directors as defendants. On August 8, 2017, the Court dismissed the Company and Newport from the action. The second amended complaint seeks monetary damages, including
 - Employers Construction Industry Retirement Trust as class representatives. On June 11, 2018, plaintiff Dixon Chung was voluntarily dismissed from the litigation. On May 1, 2019, the Court granted the defendants’ motion to strike plaintiffs’ jury demand and determined that the case will be tried by the Court, and not a jury. 
Discovery in the action is complete. On August 9, 2019, plaintiffs filed a motion for leave to file a third amended complaint,  
which was denied on October 10, 2019. On 
the Company sold two of its buildings in Boulder, Colorado and has leased-back both buildings for a period of approximately 15 months, and also sold its three buildings in Portland, Oregon and has leased-back these three buildings with various expiration dates through 2020 and 2021. Total net cash proceeds received for these two transactions was
 $41,179 and the Company recognized a net gain on the sale of these long-lived assets of $6,773.   
A-16-734039-B, were filed in the District Court, Clark County, Nevada on behalf of a putative class of stockholders of Newport Corporation (“Newport”) for claims related to the merger agreement (“Newport Merger Agreement”) between the Company, Newport, and a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company (“Merger Sub”). The lawsuits named as defendants the Company, Newport, Merger Sub, and certain then current and former members of Newport’s board of directors. Both complaints alleged that Newport directors breached their fiduciary duties to Newport’s stockholders by agreeing to sell Newport through an inadequate and unfair process, which led to inadequate and unfair consideration, by agreeing to unfair deal protection devices and by omitting material information from the proxy statement. The complaints also alleged that the Company, Newport and Merger Sub aided and abetted the directors’ alleged breaches of their fiduciary duties. The Court consolidated the actions, and plaintiffs later filed an amended complaint captioned In re Newport Corporation Shareholder Litigation, Case No. 
A-16-733154-B, in the District Court, Clark County, Nevada, on behalf of a putative class of Newport’s stockholders for claims related to the Newport Merger Agreement. The amended complaint alleged Newport’s former board of directors breached their fiduciary duties to Newport’s stockholders and that the Company, Newport and Merger Sub had aided and abetted these breaches. It sought monetary damages, including 
pre- and post-judgment interest. In June 2017, the Court granted defendants’ motion to dismiss and dismissed the amended complaint against all defendants but granted plaintiffs leave to amend. 
On July 27, 2017, plaintiffs filed a second amended complaint containing substantially similar allegations but naming only Newport’s former directors as defendants. On August 8, 2017, the Court dismissed the Company and Newport from the action. The second amended complaint seeks monetary damages, including
 pre- and post-judgment interest. The Court granted a motion for class certification on September 27, 2018, appointing Mr. Pincon and Locals 302 and 612 of the International Union of Operating Engineers - Employers Construction Industry Retirement Trust as class representatives. On June 11, 2018, plaintiff Dixon Chung was voluntarily dismissed from the litigation. On May 1, 2019, the Court granted the defendants’ motion to strike plaintiffs’ jury demand and determined that the case will be tried by the Court, and not a jury. Discovery in the action is complete. On August 9, 2019, plaintiffs filed a motion for leave to file a third amended complaint, which was denied on October 10, 2019. On August 23, 2019, defendants filed a motion for summary judgment. A bench trial is scheduled for January 2020. 
 ITEM 1A. 
10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2019. 
 ITEM 6. 
