Our primary served markets are manufacturers of capital equipment for semiconductor manufacturing, industrial technologies, life and health sciences, as well as research and defense. We have a diverse base of customers. Approximately 57% our net revenues for both the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, were from sales to semiconductor capital equipment manufacturers and semiconductor device manufacturers. Approximately 43% of our net revenues for both three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, were from other advanced manufacturing applications. These include, but are not limited to, industrial technologies, life and health sciences, and research and defense.  
A significant portion of our net revenues are from sales to customers in international markets. For both periods ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, international net revenues accounted for approximately 50% of our total net revenues. A significant portion of our international net revenues were in Japan, South Korea, Germany, Israel and China. We expect that international net revenues will continue to represent a significant percentage of our total net revenues. Long-lived assets located in the United States were $127.6 million and $124.7 million as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, excluding goodwill and intangibles, and long-term tax-related accounts. Long-lived assets located outside of the United States were $78.4 million and $78.5 million as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, excluding goodwill and intangibles, and long-term tax-related accounts.  
We adopted ASC 606 on January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method for all contracts not completed as of the date of adoption. The reported results for the three months ended March 31, 2018 reflect the application of ASC 606 guidance while the reported results for 2017 were prepared under the guidance of ASC 605, Revenue Recognition (ASC 605).  
Revenue under ASC 606 is recognized when or as obligations under the terms of a contract with our customer have been satisfied and control has transferred to the customer. The majority of our performance obligations, and associated revenue, are transferred to customers at a point in time, generally upon shipment of a product to the customer or receipt of the product by the customer and without significant judgments. Installation services are not significant and are usually completed in a short period of time (normally less than two weeks) and therefore, recorded at a point in time when the installation services are completed, rather than over time as they are not material. Extended warranty, service contracts, and repair services, which are transferred to the customer over time, are recorded as revenue as the services are performed. For repair services, we make an accrual at quarter end based upon historical repair times within our product groups to record revenue based upon the estimated number of days completed to date, which is consistent with ratable recognition. Customized products with no alternative future use to us, and that have an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date, are also recorded over time. We consider this to be a faithful depiction of the transfer to the customer of revenue over time as the work or service is performed.  
Revenue is measured as the amount of consideration we expect to receive in exchange for transferring goods or providing services. Performance obligations promised in a contract are identified based on the products or services that will be transferred to the customer that are both capable of being distinct, whereby the customer can benefit from the product or service either on its own or together with other resources that are readily available from third parties or from us, and are distinct in the context of the contract, whereby the transfer of the product or service is separately identifiable from other promises in the contract. Sales, value add, and other taxes we collect concurrent with revenue-producing activities are excluded from revenue. Our normal payment terms are 30 to 60 days but vary by the type and location of our customers and the products or services offered. The time between invoicing and when payment is due is not significant. For certain products or services and customer types, we require payment before the products or services are delivered to the customer. None of our contracts as of March 31, 2018 contain a significant financing component. Contract assets as of January 1 and March 31, 2018 were immaterial and included in other current assets.  
We periodically enter into contracts with our customers in which a customer may purchase a combination of goods and or services, such as products with installation services or extended warranty obligations. These contracts include multiple promises that we evaluate to determine if the promises are separate performance obligations. Once we determine the performance obligations, we then determine the transaction price, which includes estimating the amount of variable consideration to be included in the transaction price, if any. To the extent the transaction price includes variable consideration, we estimate the amount of variable consideration that should be included in the transaction price utilizing either the expected value method or the most likely amount method depending on the method we expect to better predict the amount of consideration to which it will be entitled. There are no constraints on the variable consideration recorded. We then allocate the transaction price to each performance obligation in the contract based on a relative stand-alone selling price charged separately to customers or using an expected cost-plus-margin method. The corresponding revenues are recognized when or as the related performance obligations are satisfied, which are noted above. The impact of variable consideration was immaterial during the three months ended March 31, 2018.  
Our standard assurance warranty period is normally 12 to 24 months. We sell separately-priced service contracts and extended warranty contracts related to certain of our products, especially our laser products. The separately priced contracts generally range from 12 to 60 months. We normally receive payment at the inception of the contract and recognize revenue over the term of the agreement in proportion to the costs expected to be incurred in satisfying the obligations under the contract. We have elected to use the practical expedient related to disclosing the remaining performance obligations as of March 31, 2018, as the majority have a duration of less than one year.  
Product revenues increased $108.8 million during the three months ended March 31, 2018, compared to the same period in the prior year. The increase was attributed to an increase of $56.2 million in product revenues from semiconductor customers and an increase in product revenues from customers in our other advanced markets of $52.6 million, primarily due to increases in our industrial technologies market.  
Service revenues consisted mainly of fees for services related to the maintenance and repair of our products, sales of spare parts, and installation and training. In 2018, we started to record the sales of spare parts in our service revenue and related cost of sales line items. Therefore, for the three months ended March 31, 2017, we re-classified $5.0 million of product revenue for spare parts from product to service revenue. Service revenues increased $8.4 million during the three months ended March 31, 2018, compared to the same period in the prior year. The increase was primarily attributed to an increase of $8.8 million in service revenues from semiconductor customers, partially offset by a net decrease of $0.4 million in service revenues from customers in other advanced markets.  
Total international net revenues, including product and service, was $277.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018, compared to $219.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017. The increase of $58.5 million in total international net revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2018, compared to the same period in the prior year, was due to increases in net revenues in Japan, Germany, South Korea and China.  
Gross profit as a percentage of net product revenues increased by 0.5 percentage points for the three months ended March 31, 2018, compared to the same period in the prior year. The increase was primarily attributed higher revenue volumes.  
Research and development expenses increased $1.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018, compared to the same period in the prior year. The increase was primarily related to an increase of $1.3 million in compensation costs and related benefits and $0.4 million in project materials.  
Our research and development efforts are primarily focused on developing and improving our instruments, components, subsystems and process control solutions to improve process performance and productivity.  
We have thousands of products, and our research and development efforts primarily consist of a large number of projects related to these products, none of which is individually material to us. Current projects typically have durations of 3 to 30 months depending upon whether the product is an enhancement of existing technology or a new product. Our current initiatives include projects to enhance the performance characteristics of older products, to develop new products and to integrate various technologies into subsystems. These projects support in large part the transition in the semiconductor industry to smaller integrated circuit geometries and in the flat panel display and solar markets to larger substrate sizes, which require more advanced process control technology. Research and development expenses consist primarily of salaries and related expenses for personnel engaged in research and development, fees paid to consultants, material costs for prototypes and other expenses related to the design, development, testing and enhancement of our products.  
Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $8.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018, compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily due to an increase of $7.3 million of compensation costs, of which $3.9 million is incentive compensation and $3.4 million is salaries and fringes, and related benefits and $1.2 million of commissions expense.  
Restructuring charges for the three months ended March 31, 2018 primarily related to severance costs related to streamlining and consolidating certain administrative functions. The restructuring charges for the three months ended March 31, 2017 relate to the restructuring of one of our international facilities and the consolidation of certain sales offices.  
We recorded $1.0 million of environmental costs for the three months ended March 31, 2018 related to a U.S. Environmental Protection Agency-designated Superfund site acquired as part of our acquisition of Newport.  
Amortization of intangible assets decreased by $1.3 million during the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the same period in the prior year, due to certain intangible assets becoming fully amortized.  
Interest expense, net, decreased by $4.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018, compared to the same period in the prior year. The decrease for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was due primarily to principal prepayments of $225.0 million since the first quarter of 2017 and repricings of our Term Loan Facility (as defined in Note 10 in the financial statements).  
The effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2017 was lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate mainly due to the impact of lower tax rates on foreign income, the deduction for domestic production activities and windfall stock compensation tax benefit.  
At March 31, 2018, the total amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits, which excludes interest and penalties, was approximately $27.9 million. At December 31, 2017, our total amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits, which excludes interest and penalties, was approximately $27.3 million. The net increase from December 31, 2017 was primarily attributable to the addition of reserves for state taxes  
Cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash and short-term marketable investments totaled $541.5 million at March 31, 2018, compared to $543.3 million at December 31, 2017.  
Net cash provided by operating activities was $72.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and resulted from net income of $105.1 million, which included non-cash charges of $37.9 million, offset by a net increase in working capital of $70.3 million. The net increase in working capital was primarily due to an increase in accounts receivable of $37.3 million and an increase in inventories of $28.2 million, related to an increase in business activities and a decrease in accrued compensation of $32.5 million, as year-end bonuses were paid. These increases in working capital were offset by an increase in other current and non-current liabilities of $10.5 million, an increase in accounts payable of $9.3 million and an increase in income taxes of $8.8 million.  
Net cash provided by operating activities was $66.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017, and resulted from net income of $65.1 million, which included non-cash charges of $36.9 million, offset by a net increase in working capital of $35.9 million. The net increase in working capital was primarily due to a decrease in accrued compensation of $16.8 million, as year-end bonuses were paid, an increase in trade accounts receivable of $15.2 million and an increase in inventories of $11.7 million, related to an increase in business activities and an increase in other current assets of $1.5 million. These increases in working capital were partially offset by an increase in income taxes of $8.1 million and an increase in other current and non-current liabilities of $1.1 million.  
Net cash used in investing activities was $0.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 due to purchases of production-related equipment of $9.4 million, offset by net sales and maturities of short-term investments of $8.8 million. Net cash provided by investing activities was $30.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017, and resulted from $34.6 million of net sale and maturities of short-term investments, partially offset by $4.1 million in purchases of production-related equipment.  
On July 25, 2011, our Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program for the repurchase of up to an aggregate of $200 million of our outstanding common stock from time to time in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or through other appropriate means. The timing and quantity of any shares repurchased depends upon a variety of factors, including business conditions, stock market conditions and business development activities, including but not limited to merger and acquisition opportunities. These repurchases may be commenced, suspended or discontinued at any time without prior notice. We have repurchased approximately 1,770,000 shares of common stock for approximately $52.0 million pursuant to the program since its adoption. During the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, there were no repurchases of common stock.  
Holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends when and if they are declared by our board of directors. During the three months ended March 31, 2018, we paid cash dividends of $9.8 million in the aggregate, or $0.18 per share. During the three months ended March 31, 2017, we paid cash dividends of $9.4 million in the aggregate, or $0.175 per share. Future dividend declarations, if any, as well as the record and payment dates for such dividends, are subject to the final determination of our Board of Directors. In addition, under the terms of our senior secured Term Loan Facility and our senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility, we may be restricted from paying dividends under certain circumstances.  
In April 2017, we completed the sale of our Data Analytics Solutions business for total proceeds of $72.5 million, net of cash sold and recorded a pre-tax gain of $74.9 million.  
In December 2016, we entered into Amendment No. 2 (the “Repricing Amendment 2”) to the Credit Agreement by and among the Company, the Lenders and Barclays Bank PLC, as administrative agent and collateral agent for the Lenders. The Repricing Amendment 2 decreased the applicable margin for our term loan under the Credit Agreement to 2.75% for LIBOR borrowings and 1.75% for base rate borrowings and reset the period during which a prepayment premium may be required for a Repricing Transaction until six months after the effective date of the Repricing Amendment 2. In November 2016, prior to the effectiveness of the Repricing Amendment 2, we prepaid an additional $40.0 million of principal under the Credit Agreement. In March 2017, we prepaid an additional $50.0 million of principal under the Credit Agreement.  
In July 2017, August 2017, November 2017 and March 2018 we voluntarily prepaid $50.0 million, $75.0 million, $50.0 million and $50.0 million, respectively, of principal under the Credit Agreement. As of March 31, 2018, after total principal prepayments of $425.0 million and regularly scheduled principal payments of $6.5 million, the total outstanding principal balance was $348.5 million. The interest rate as of March 31, 2018 was 3.648%.  
We incurred $28.7 million of deferred finance fees, original issue discount and repricing fees related to the term loans under the Term Loan Facility, which are included in long-term debt in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and are being amortized to interest expense over the estimated life of the term loans using the effective interest method. A portion of these fees have been accelerated in connection with the various debt prepayments during 2016, 2017 and 2018. As of March 31, 2018, the remaining balance of the deferred finance fees, original issue discount and repricing fees related to the Term Loan Facility was $7.2 million.  
Under the Credit Agreement, we are required to prepay outstanding term loans, subject to certain exceptions, with portions of our annual excess cash flow as well as with the net cash proceeds of certain asset sales, certain casualty and condemnation events and the incurrence or issuance of certain debt. We are also required to make scheduled quarterly payments each equal to 0.25% of the principal amount of the term loan, less the amount of certain voluntary and mandatory repayments after such date, with the balance due on the seventh anniversary of the closing date. As a result of making total prepayments of $425.0 million through March 31, 2018, we are no longer required to make any scheduled quarterly principal payments until maturity of the loan.  
All obligations under the Term Loan Facility are guaranteed by certain of our domestic subsidiaries, and are secured by substantially all of our assets and the assets of such subsidiaries, subject to certain exceptions and exclusions.  
The Credit Agreement contains customary representations and warranties, affirmative and negative covenants and provisions relating to events of default. If an event of default occurs, the Lenders under the Term Loan Facility will be entitled to take various actions, including the acceleration of amounts due under the Term Loan Facility and all actions generally permitted to be taken by a secured creditor. At March 31, 2018, we were in compliance with all covenants under the Credit Agreement.  
 applicable margin for borrowings thereunder is subject to upward or downward adjustment each fiscal quarter, based on the average historical excess availability during the preceding quarter.  
We have incurred $1.2 million of costs in connection with the ABL Facility, which were capitalized and included in other assets in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and are being amortized to interest expense using the straight-line method over the contractual term of five years of the ABL Facility.  
One of our Japanese subsidiaries has lines of credit and short-term borrowing arrangements with two financial institutions which arrangements generally expire and are renewed at three-month intervals. The lines of credit provide for aggregate borrowings as of March 31, 2018, of up to an equivalent of $21.6 million U.S. dollars. One of the borrowing arrangements has an interest rate based on the Tokyo Interbank Offer Rate at the time of borrowing and the other has an interest rate based on the Japanese Short-Term Prime Lending Rate. Total borrowings outstanding under these arrangements were $0.9 million at March 31, 2018. There were no borrowings outstanding under these arrangements at December 31, 2017.  
We assumed various revolving lines of credit and a financing facility with the completion of the Newport Merger. These revolving lines of credit and financing facility have no expiration date and provide for aggregate borrowings as of March 31, 2018 of up to an equivalent of $9.9 million U.S. dollars. These lines of credit have a base interest rate of 1.25% plus a Japanese Yen overnight LIBOR rate. Total borrowings outstanding under these arrangements were $3.8 million and $3.0 million at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017.  
One of our Austrian subsidiaries has various outstanding loans from the Austrian government to fund research and development. These loans are unsecured and do not require principal repayment as long as certain conditions are met. Interest on these loans is payable semi-annually. The interest rates associated with these loans range from 0.75% to 2.00%.  
We do not have any financial partnerships with unconsolidated entities, such as entities often referred to as structured finance, special purpose entities or variable interest entities, which are often established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or for other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Accordingly, we have no off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably expected to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that are material to investors.  
After total prepayments of $425.0 million and regularly scheduled principal payments of $6.5 million during the three months ended March 31, 2018, our total outstanding principal balance on our Credit Agreement was $348.5 million. As a result of making total prepayments since the inception of the Credit Agreement, we are no longer required to make any scheduled principal payments until the maturity date of the loan. There have been no other changes outside the ordinary course of business to our contractual obligations as disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.  
In February 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-02, “Income Statement – Reporting Comprehensive Income (Topic 220).” The amendments in this standard allow a reclassification from accumulated other comprehensive income to retained earnings for stranded tax effects resulting from the Act. The provisions of this ASU are effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. We do not expect adoption of this ASU to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.  
In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-12, “Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815).” This standard better aligns an entity’s risk management activities and financial reporting for hedging relationships through changes to both the designation and measurement guidance for qualifying hedging relationships and the presentation of hedge results. The provisions of this ASU are effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. We do not expect adoption of this ASU to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.  
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, “Leases (Topic 842).” This standard requires the recognition of lease assets and liabilities for all leases, with certain exceptions, on the balance sheet. In transition, lessees and lessors are required to recognize and measure leases at the beginning of the earliest period presented using a modified retrospective approach. This ASU is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. We have reviewed the requirements of the new standard and have formulated a plan for implementation. We have communicated our approach to our Audit Committee and will provide regular updates as appropriate. We are currently working at accumulating a complete population of leases from all of our locations. We have selected a software repository to track all of our lease agreements and to assist in the reporting and disclosure requirements required by the standard. We will continue to assess and disclose the impact that this ASU will have on our consolidated financial statements, disclosures and related controls, when known.  
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606).” This ASU provides for a single comprehensive model to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers and has replaced most existing revenue recognition guidance in Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. This ASU is effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those years beginning after December 15, 2017. The two permitted transition methods under the new standard are the full retrospective method, in which case the standard would be applied to each prior reporting period presented, or the modified retrospective method, in which case the cumulative effect of applying the standard would be recognized at the date of initial application. We used the modified retrospective method upon adoption in the first quarter of 2018. The adoption of this ASU did not have a material impact on our financial statements as described further in Note 3 of the consolidated financial statements.  
