Tax expense (benefit) was $15 and ($112) for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.  
Tax benefit was $21 and $36 for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.  
Tax benefit was $16 and $17 for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.  
In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-12, “Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815).” This standard better aligns an entity’s risk management activities and financial reporting for hedging relationships through changes to both the designation and measurement guidance for qualifying hedging relationships and the presentation of hedge results. The provisions of this ASU are effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company adopted this ASU during the first quarter of 2019 and the adoption of this ASU did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.  
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases. This standard requires the recognition of lease assets and liabilities for all leases, with certain exceptions, on the balance sheet. This ASU is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company adopted ASU 2016-02 on January 1, 2019, and used the effective date as its date of initial application. As such, the Company did not adjust prior period amounts. The Company also elected to adopt the package of practical expedients upon transition, which permits companies to not reassess lease identification, classification, and initial direct costs under ASU 2016-02 for leases that commenced prior to the effective date. The Company implemented internal controls and a lease accounting information system to enable  
 preparation on adoption. Upon adoption, the Company recorded a cumulative effect of initially applying this new standard, resulting in the addition of $71,042 of right-of-use assets and $20,192 and $54,147 of short-term and long-term lease liabilities, respectively. The right-of-use asset is net of the deferred rent liability, prepaid rent and a net favorable lease asset which were re-classified to the right-of-use asset upon adoption of the standard. For additional information on the required disclosures related to the impact of adopting this standard, see Note 3 to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.  
The Company has operating leases for real estate and non-real estate, which are comprised of automobiles, in North America, Europe, and Asia. The Company does not have any finance leases.  
The Company has lease arrangements with lease and non-lease components, has elected to account for the lease and non-lease components as a single lease component, and has allocated all of the contract consideration to the lease component only. The Company has existing net leases in which the non-lease components (e.g. common area maintenance, maintenance, consumables, etc.) are paid separately from rent based on actual costs incurred. Therefore, non-lease components are not included in the right-of-use asset and lease liability and are reflected as expenses in the periods incurred.  
The Company has existing leases that include variable lease and non-lease components that are not included in the right-of-use asset and lease liability, and are reflected as expenses in the periods incurred. Such payments primarily include common area maintenance charges and increases in rent payments that are driven by factors such as future changes in an index (e.g., the Consumer Price Index).  
Contract assets as of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018 were $3,624 and $3,624, respectively, and included in other current assets.  
Beginning deferred revenue and customer advances as of January 1, 2019 included $8,134 of current deferred revenue, $3,228 of long-term deferred revenue and $6,112 of current customer advances.  
Ending deferred revenue as of March 31, 2019 included $13,322 of current deferred revenue, $3,018 of long-term deferred revenue and $7,734 of current customer advances.  
The tables above, which show the gross unrealized gains and (losses) aggregated by investment category for available-for-sale investments as of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, reflect the inclusion within short-term investments of investments with contractual maturities greater than one year from the date of purchase. Management has the ability, if necessary, to liquidate any of its investments in order to meet the Company’s liquidity needs in the next 12 months. Accordingly, those investments with contractual maturities greater than one year from the date of purchase are classified as short-term on the accompanying balance sheets.  
Interest income is accrued as earned. Dividend income is recognized as income on the date the stock trades “ex-dividend.” The cost of marketable securities sold is determined by the specific identification method. Realized gains or losses are reflected in income and were not material for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018.  
In accordance with the provisions of fair value accounting, a fair value measurement assumes that the transaction to sell an asset or transfer a liability occurs in the principal market for the asset or liability or, in the absence of a principal market, the most advantageous market for the asset or liability and defines fair value based upon an exit price model.  
 Level 1   Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities assessed as of the reporting date. Active markets are those in which transactions for the asset or liability occur in sufficient frequency and volume to provide pricing information on an ongoing basis. 
 Level 2   Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. Level 2 assets and liabilities include debt securities with quoted prices that are traded less frequently than exchange-traded instruments or securities or derivative contracts that are valued using a pricing model with inputs that are observable in the market or can be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data.  
 Level 3   Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities. Level 3 assets and liabilities include financial instruments whose value is determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies, or similar techniques, as well as instruments for which the determination of fair value requires significant management judgment or estimation.  
In certain cases, the inputs used to measure fair value may fall into different levels of the fair value hierarchy. In such cases, the Company categorizes such assets and liabilities based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety. The Company’s assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement in its entirety requires judgment and considers factors specific to the asset or liability.  
The cash and cash equivalent amounts presented in the table above do not include cash of $269,315 as of March 31, 2019.  
The long-term investments presented in the table above do not include the Company’s minority interest investment in a private company, which is accounted for under the cost method.  
The cash and cash equivalent amounts presented in the table above do not include cash of $456,940 as of December 31, 2018.  
The long-term investments presented in the table above do not include the Company’s minority interest investment in a private company, which is accounted for under the cost method.  
Available-for-sale investments consisted of time deposits, certificates of deposit, bankers’ acceptance drafts, asset-backed securities (which include auto loans, credit card receivables and equipment trust receivables), commercial paper, corporate obligations, U.S. treasury obligations, U.S. agency obligations and group insurance contracts.  
The Company measures its debt and equity investments at fair value. The Company’s available-for-sale investments are classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.  
Israeli pension assets represent investments in mutual funds, government securities and other time deposits. These investments are set aside for the retirement benefit of the employees at the Company’s Israeli subsidiaries. These funds are classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.  
By nature, all financial instruments involve market and credit risks. The Company enters into derivative instruments with major investment grade financial institutions, for which no collateral is required. The Company has policies to monitor the credit risk of these counterparties. While there can be no assurance, the Company does not anticipate any material non-performance by any of these counterparties.  
On September 30, 2016, the Company entered into an interest rate swap agreement to fix the rate on approximately 50% of its then-outstanding balance under the Credit Agreement, as described further in Note 11. This hedge fixes the interest rate paid on the hedged debt at 1.198% per annum plus the applicable credit spread, which was 2.0% as of March 31, 2019, through September 30, 2020. The interest rate swap is recorded at fair value on the balance sheet and changes in the fair value are recognized in other comprehensive income (loss) (“OCI”). To the extent that this arrangement is no longer an effective hedge, any ineffectiveness measured in the hedging relationship is recorded currently in earnings in the period it occurs. At March 31, 2019, the notional amount of this transaction was $290,000 and had a fair value of $4,459. At December 31, 2018, the notional amount of this transaction was $290,000 and had a fair value of $6,083.  
Represents the receivable (payable) amount included in the consolidated balance sheet.  
The foreign currency interest rate hedge assets of $4,459 and $6,083 as of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively, are classified in other assets in the consolidated balance sheet.  
The net amount of existing gains as of March 31, 2019 that the Company expects to reclassify from OCI into earnings within the next twelve months is immaterial.  
On February 1, 2019, the Company completed its acquisition of Electro Scientific Industries, Inc. (“ESI”) pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of October 29, 2018 (the “Merger Agreement”), by and among the Company, EAS Equipment, Inc., formerly a Delaware corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, and ESI (the “ESI Merger”). At the effective time of the ESI Merger and pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Merger Agreement, each share of ESI’s common stock that was issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the ESI Merger was converted into the right to receive $30.00 in cash, without interest and subject to deduction of any required withholding tax.  
The aggregate consideration of approximately $1,032,671, excluding related transaction fees and expenses, and non-cash consideration related to the exchange of share-based awards of approximately $30,630 for a total purchase consideration of approximately $1,063,301. The Company funded the payment of the aggregate consideration with a combination of the Company’s available cash on hand and the proceeds from the Company’s senior secured term loan facility described in Note 11.  
Represents cash paid of $30.00 per share for approximately 34,422,361 shares of ESI common stock, without interest and subject to a deduction for any required withholding tax.  
Under the acquisition method of accounting, the total estimated acquisition consideration is allocated to the acquired tangible and intangible assets and assumed liabilities of ESI based on their fair values as of the acquisition date. Any excess of the acquisition consideration over the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed is allocated to goodwill. The Company expects that none of such goodwill and intangible assets will be deductible for tax purposes.  
The fair value write-up of acquired finished goods inventory and demonstration inventory was $8,383, the amount of which will be expensed over the period during which the acquired inventory is sold. Accordingly, for the three months ended March 31, 2019, the Company recorded a $5,140 incremental cost of sales charge associated with the fair value write-up of inventory acquired in the ESI Merger.  
The fair value write-up of acquired property, plant and equipment of $26,667 will be amortized over the estimated useful life of the applicable assets. Property, plant and equipment is valued at its value-in-use, unless there was a known plan to dispose of the asset.  
The acquired intangible assets are being amortized on a straight-line basis, which approximates the economic use of the asset.  
Certain executives from ESI had severance provisions in their respective ESI employment agreements. The agreements included terms that were accounted for as dual-trigger arrangements. Through the Company’s acquisition accounting, the expense relating to these benefits was recognized in the combined entity’s financial statements. The Company recorded costs of $2,701 and $14,023 in acquisition and integration costs as compensation expense and stock-based compensation expense, respectively, for the three months ended March 31, 2019 associated with these severance provisions. The restricted stock units and stock appreciation rights that were eligible for accelerated vesting if the executive exercised his or her rights but were not issued as of each reporting period-end, will be excluded from the computation of basic earnings per share and included in the computation of diluted earnings per share for such reporting period.  
Incremental amortization and depreciation expense related to the estimated fair value of identifiable intangible assets and property, plant and equipment, respectively from the purchase price allocation.  
Incremental interest expense related to the Company’s Incremental Term Loan Facility, as discussed in Note 11.  
The exclusion of acquisition costs and inventory and demonstration inventory step-up amortization from the three month periods ended March 31, 2019 and the addition of these items to the three month period ended March 31, 2018.  
The exclusion of debt issuance costs due to the modification of the Incremental Term Loan Facility from the three month period ended March 31, 2019 and the addition of this item to the three month period ended March 31, 2018.  
The estimated tax impact of the above adjustments.  
During the three months ended March 31, 2019, the Company recorded $471,403 of goodwill related to the ESI Merger.  
During the three months ended March 31, 2019, the Company recorded $318,600 of separately identified intangible assets related to the ESI Merger, of which $276,400 was completed technology, $25,400 was customer relationships and $16,800 was trademarks, trade names and backlog. Separately, on January 1, 2019, the Company reclassified $6,428 of gross favorable lease assets and $3,445 of related accumulated amortization from patents, trademarks, trade names and other to the right-of-use asset line in the balance sheet.  
The Company subsequently entered into four separate repricing amendments to the 2016 Term Loan Facility, which decreased the applicable margin for LIBOR borrowings from 4.0% to 1.75%, with a LIBOR rate floor of 0.75%. As a consequence of the pricing of the 2019 Incremental Term Loan Facility (defined below), the applicable margin for the 2016 Term Loan Facility was increased to 2.00% (from 1.75%) with respect to LIBOR borrowings and 1.00% (from 0.75%) with respect to base rate borrowings. The interest rate on the 2016 Term Loan Facility as of March 31, 2019 was 4.5%.  
On September 30, 2016, the Company entered into an interest rate swap agreement, which has a maturity date of September 30, 2020, to fix the rate on $335,000 of the then-outstanding balance of the 2016 Term Loan Facility. The rate is fixed at 1.198% per annum plus the applicable credit spread, which was 2.0% at March 31, 2019. At March 31, 2019, the notional amount of this transaction was $290,000 and had a fair value of $4,459.  
As of March 31, 2019, after total principal prepayments of $425,000 and regularly scheduled principal payments of $6,536, the total outstanding principal balance of the 2016 Term Loan Facility was $348,464. As a result of making these prepayments, the Company is no longer required to make any regularly scheduled principal payments on the 2016 Term Loan Facility until the maturity date of the loan.  
The Company incurred $28,747 of deferred finance fees, original issue discount and repricing fees related to the term loans under the 2016 Term Loan Facility, which are included in long-term debt in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and are being amortized to interest expense over the estimated life of the term loans using the effective interest method. A portion of these fees have been accelerated in connection with the various debt prepayments during 2016, 2017 and 2018. As of March 31, 2019, the remaining balance of the deferred finance fees, original issue discount and repricing fees related to the 2016 Term Loan Facility was $3,980.  
On February 1, 2019, in connection with the completion of the ESI Merger, the Company entered into an amendment (“Amendment No. 5”) to the Credit Agreement. Amendment No. 5 provided an additional tranche B-5 term loan commitment in the principal amount of $650,000 (the “2019 Incremental Term Loan Facility”), all of which was drawn down in connection with the closing of the ESI Merger. Pursuant to Amendment No. 5, the Company also effectuated certain amendments to the Credit Agreement which make certain of the negative covenants and other provisions less restrictive. The 2019 Incremental Term Loan Facility matures on February 1, 2026 and bears interest at a rate per annum equal to, at the Company’s option, a base rate or LIBOR rate (as described above) plus, in each case, an applicable margin equal to 1.25% with respect to base rate borrowings and 2.25% with respect to LIBOR borrowings. The 2019 Incremental Term Loan Facility was issued with original issue discount of 1.00% of the principal amount thereof.  
The Company incurred $11,362 of deferred finance fees and original issue discount fees related to the term loans under the 2019 Incremental Term Loan Facility, which are included in long-term debt in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and are being amortized to interest expense over the estimated life of the term loans using the effective interest method. As of March 31, 2019, the remaining balance of the deferred finance fees and original issue discount related to the 2019 Incremental Term Loan Facility was $11,244.  
Under the Credit Agreement, the Company is required to prepay outstanding term loans under the 2016 Term Loan Facility and the 2019 Incremental Term Loan Facility, subject to certain exceptions, with portions of its annual excess cash flow as well as with the net cash proceeds of certain asset sales, certain casualty and condemnation events and the incurrence or issuance of certain debt. As a result the Company’s Total Leverage Ratio, it was not required to make a prepayment of excess cash flow for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018.  
All obligations under the Term Loan Facility are guaranteed by certain of the Company’s domestic subsidiaries, and are collateralized by substantially all of the Company’s assets and the assets of such subsidiaries, subject to certain exceptions and exclusions.  
The Credit Agreement contains customary representations and warranties, affirmative and negative covenants and provisions relating to events of default. If an event of default occurs, the Lenders under the Term Loan Facility will be entitled to take various actions, including the acceleration of amounts due under the Term Loan Facility and all actions generally permitted to be taken by a secured creditor. At March 31, 2019, the Company was in compliance with all covenants under the Credit Agreement.  
In connection with the completion of the Newport Merger in April 2016, the Company entered into an asset-based credit agreement with Deutsche Bank AG New York Branch, as administrative agent and collateral agent, the other borrowers from time to time party thereto, and the lenders and letters of credit issuers from time to time party thereto, that provided senior secured financing of up to $50,000, which the Company never borrowed against. On February 1, 2019, in connection with the completion of the ESI Merger, the Company terminated the $50,000 asset-based credit agreement with Deutsche Bank AG New York Branch and entered into an asset-based credit agreement with Barclays Bank PLC, as administrative agent and collateral agent, the other borrowers from time to time party thereto, and the lenders and letters of credit issuers from  
In addition to paying interest on any outstanding principal under the ABL Facility, the Company is required to pay a commitment fee in respect of the unutilized commitments thereunder equal to 0.25% per annum. The Company must also pay customary letter of credit fees and agency fees.  
The Company incurred $785 of costs in connection with the new ABL Facility, which were capitalized and included in other assets in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet and are being amortized to interest expense over the contractual term of five years of the ABL Facility. As a result of the prior asset-based facility being terminated, the Company wrote off $216 of previously capitalized debt issuance costs. 
The ABL Credit Agreement also contains customary representations and warranties, affirmative covenants and provisions relating to events of default. If an event of default occurs, the lenders under the ABL Facility will be entitled to take various actions, including the acceleration of amounts due under the ABL Facility and all actions permitted to be taken by a secured creditor.  
One of the Company’s Japanese subsidiaries has lines of credit and short-term borrowing arrangements with two financial institutions, which arrangements generally expire and are renewed at three-month intervals. The lines of credit provided for aggregate borrowings as of March 31, 2019 of up to an equivalent of $20,747. One of the borrowing arrangements has an interest rate based on the Tokyo Interbank Offer Rate at the time of borrowing and the other has an interest rate based on the Japanese Short-Term Prime Lending Rate. There were no borrowings outstanding under these arrangements at March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.  
The Company has various revolving lines of credit and a financing facility. These revolving lines of credit and financing facility have no expiration date and as of March 31, 2019, provided for aggregate borrowings of up to an equivalent of $11,275. These lines of credit have a base interest rate of 1.25% plus a Japanese Yen overnight LIBOR rate. Total borrowings outstanding under these arrangements were $3,195 and $3,389 at March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.  
One of the Company’s Austrian subsidiaries has various outstanding loans from the Austrian government to fund research and development. These loans are unsecured and do not require principal repayment as long as certain conditions are met. Interest on these loans is payable semi-annually. The interest rates associated with these loans range from 0% to 0.75%.  
Net of deferred financing fees, original issuance discount and repricing fee of $15,224 and $4,708 as of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.  
The Company recognized interest expense of $9,119 and $5,430 for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.  
As of March 31, 2019, the total amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits, which excludes interest and penalties, was approximately $40,725. At December 31, 2018, the total amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits, which excludes interest and penalties, was approximately $32,684. The net increase was primarily attributable to the addition of historical gross unrecognized tax benefits for ESI as a result of the ESI Merger during the quarter ended March 31, 2019. As of March 31, 2019, excluding interest and penalties, there were approximately $33,085 of net unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would impact the Company’s effective tax rate.  
Basic earnings per share (“EPS”) is computed by dividing income available to common stockholders by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period. The computation of diluted EPS is similar to the computation of basic EPS except that the denominator is increased to include the number of additional common shares that would have been outstanding (using the treasury stock method) if securities containing potentially dilutive common shares (restricted stock units and stock appreciation rights) had been converted to such common shares, and if such assumed conversion is dilutive.  
For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 there were approximately 128,200 and 380 weighted-average restricted stock units, respectively, that would have had an anti-dilutive effect on EPS, and would thus need to be excluded from the computation of diluted weighted-average shares.  
The Company grants restricted stock units (“RSUs”) to employees and directors under the 2014 Stock Incentive Plan (the “2014 Plan”). The 2014 Plan is administered by the Compensation Committee of the Company’s Board of Directors. The 2014 Plan is intended to attract and retain employees and directors, and to provide an incentive for these individuals to assist the Company to achieve long-range performance goals and to enable these individuals to participate in the long-term growth of the Company.  
all stock appreciation rights (“SARs”) granted under any ESI Plan, whether vested or unvested, that were outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the ESI Merger and held by an individual who was a service provider of ESI as of the date on which the effective time of the ESI Merger occurred.  
As of the effective time of the ESI Merger, based on a formula in the Merger Agreement, (a) such RSUs were converted automatically into RSUs with respect to 736,133 shares of the Company’s common stock (the “Assumed RSUs”), and (b) all SARs were converted automatically into SARs with respect to 12,787 shares of the Company’s common stock (the “Assumed SARs”).  
Included in the total number of assumed RSUs are 326,283 shares of the Company’s common stock for employees and outside directors that are part of the ESI Deferred Compensation plan. These shares will not become issued shares until their respective release dates.  
The shares of the Company’s common stock that are subject to the Assumed SARs and the Assumed RSUs are issuable pursuant to the Company’s 2014 Plan.  
The 748,920 shares of the Company’s common stock that are issuable pursuant to the Assumed RSUs and the Assumed SARs under the Company’s 2014 Plan were registered under the Securities Act of 1933 on the Registration Statement on Form S-8. These shares are in addition to the 18,000,000 shares of the Company’s common stock reserved for issuance under the Company’s 2014 Plan and previously registered under the Securities Act of 1933 on the Registration Statement on Form S-8.  
During the three months ended March 31, 2019, the Company granted 182,212 RSUs with a weighted average grant date fair value of $82.58. During the three months ended March 31, 2018, the Company granted 122,831 RSUs with a weighted average grant date fair value of $109.62. There were no SARs granted during the three months ended March 31, 2019 or 2018.  
Holders of the Company’s common stock are entitled to receive dividends when they are declared by the Company’s Board of Directors. In addition, the Company accrues dividend equivalents on the RSUs the Company assumed in the ESI Merger described in Note 15 above when dividends are declared by the Company’s Board of Directors. During the three months ended March 31, 2019, the Company’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.20 per share, which totaled $10,843. During the three months ended March 31, 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.18 per share, which totaled $9,808.  
On May 8, 2019, the Company’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.20 per share to be paid on June 7, 2019 to shareholders of record as of May 27, 2019. Future dividend declarations, if any, as well as the record and payment dates for such dividends, are subject to the final determination of the Company’s Board of Directors. In addition, under the terms of the Term Loan Facility and its ABL Facility, the Company may be restricted from paying dividends under certain circumstances.  
The Company is a global provider of instruments, subsystems and process control solutions that measure, monitor, deliver, analyze, power and control critical parameters of advanced manufacturing processes to improve process performance and productivity for its customers. The Company’s products are derived from its core competencies in pressure measurement and control, flow measurement and control, gas and vapor delivery, gas composition analysis, residual gas analysis, leak detection, control technology, ozone generation and delivery, power, reactive gas generation, vacuum technology, lasers, photonics, sub-micron positioning, vibration control, optics and laser-based manufacturing solutions. The Company also provides services relating to the maintenance and repair of its products, installation services and training. The Company’s primary served markets include semiconductor, industrial technologies, life and health sciences, research and defense.  
Long-lived assets include property, plant and equipment, net and certain other long-term assets, excluding long-term tax related accounts.  
The Company recorded restructuring charges of $223 during the three months ended March 31, 2019, primarily related to severance costs related to the consolidation of certain functions in Asia. The Company recorded restructuring charges of $1,220 during the three months ended March 31, 2018 primarily related to severance costs related to streamlining and consolidating certain administrative functions.  
In March 2016, two putative class actions lawsuit captioned Dixon Chung v. Newport Corp., et al., Case No. A-16-733154-C, and Hubert C. Pincon v. Newport Corp., et al., Case No. A-16-734039-B, were filed in the District Court, Clark County, Nevada on behalf of a putative class of stockholders of Newport for claims related to the merger agreement (“Newport Merger Agreement”) between the Company, Newport, and a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company (“Merger Sub”). The lawsuits named as defendants the Company, Newport, Merger Sub, and certain then current and former members of Newport’s board of directors. Both complaints alleged that Newport directors breached their fiduciary duties to Newport’s stockholders by agreeing to sell Newport through an inadequate and unfair process, which led to inadequate and unfair consideration, by agreeing to unfair deal protection devices and by omitting material information from the proxy statement. The complaints also alleged that the Company, Newport, and Merger Sub aided and abetted the directors’ alleged breaches of their fiduciary duties. The complaints sought injunctive relief, including to enjoin or rescind the Newport Merger Agreement, and an award of attorneys’ and other fees and costs, among other relief. On April 14, 2016, the Court consolidated the actions.  
On October 19, 2016, plaintiffs in the consolidated action filed an amended complaint captioned In re Newport Corporation Shareholder Litigation, Case No. A-16-733154-B, in the District Court, Clark County, Nevada, on behalf of a putative class of Newport’s stockholders for claims related to the Newport Merger Agreement. The amended complaint contained substantially similar allegations related to Newport’s former board of directors’ alleged breaches of their fiduciary duties to Newport’s stockholders. The amended complaint sought monetary damages, including pre- and post-judgment interest. On June 22, 2017, the Court granted Defendants’ motion to dismiss and dismissed the amended complaint against all defendants but granted plaintiffs leave to amend.  
On July 27, 2017, plaintiffs filed a second amended complaint containing substantially similar allegations but naming only Newport’s former directors as defendants. On August 8, 2017, the Court dismissed the Company and Newport from the action. The second amended complaint seeks monetary damages, including pre- and post-judgment interest. The Court granted a motion for class certification on September 27, 2018, appointing Mr. Pincon and Locals 302 and 612 of the International Union of Operating Engineers - Employers Construction Industry Retirement Trust as class representatives. On June 11, 2018, plaintiff Dixon Chung was voluntarily dismissed from the litigation. Discovery is ongoing in this action.  
On November 29, 2018, a complaint captioned Brian Morris et. al. v. Electro Scientific Industries, Inc. et al. was filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of Oregon by alleged former stockholders of ESI in connection with the ESI Merger. The complaint named the Company’s subsidiary, ESI, and the former members of ESI’s board of directors as defendants. Five additional complaints were subsequently filed, two in the U.S. District Court for the District of Oregon and three in the Multnomah County Circuit Court in the State of Oregon. The cases filed in the U.S. District Court were dated December 6, 2018 and December 12, 2018 and captioned Melvyn Klein et. al. v. Electro Scientific Industries, Inc. et al. and Donald Mager et. al. v. Electro Scientific Industries, Inc. et al., respectively. The complaints filed in Multnomah County Circuit Court were dated December 5, 2018, December 5, 2018 and December 13, 2018 and captioned Michael Kent et. al v. Electro Scientific Industries, Inc. et al., Christopher Stanley et. al v. Electro Scientific Industries, Inc. et al. and Eduardo Colmenares et. al. v. Electro Scientific Industries, Inc., MKS Instruments, Inc., et al., respectively (collectively with Brian Morris et. al. v. Electro Scientific Industries, Inc. et. al., the “Lawsuits”).  
On February 26, 2019, the parties entered into a settlement agreement, pursuant to which plaintiffs dismissed their individual claims with prejudice and class claims without prejudice in return for ESI’s previous supplemental merger related disclosures in connection with the transaction. ESI provided supplemental merger related disclosures to eliminate the burden and expense of litigation and to avoid any possible disruption to the merger that could result from further litigation.  
In March 2016, two putative class actions lawsuit captioned Dixon Chung v. Newport Corp., et al., Case No. A-16-733154-C, and Hubert C. Pincon v. Newport Corp., et al., Case No. A-16-734039-B, were filed in the District Court, Clark County, Nevada on behalf of a putative class of stockholders of Newport Corporation (“Newport”) for claims related to the merger agreement (“Newport Merger Agreement”) between the Company, Newport, and a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company (“Merger Sub”). The lawsuits named as defendants the Company, Newport, Merger Sub, and certain then current and former members of Newport’s board of directors. Both complaints alleged that Newport directors breached their fiduciary duties to Newport’s stockholders by agreeing to sell Newport through an inadequate and unfair process, which led to inadequate and unfair consideration, by agreeing to unfair deal protection devices and by omitting material information from the proxy statement. The complaints also alleged that the Company, Newport, and Merger Sub aided and abetted the directors’ alleged breaches of their fiduciary duties. The complaints sought injunctive relief, including to enjoin or rescind the Newport Merger Agreement, and an award of attorneys’ and other fees and costs, among other relief. On April 14, 2016, the Court consolidated the actions.  
On October 19, 2016, plaintiffs in the consolidated action filed an amended complaint captioned In re Newport Corporation Shareholder Litigation, Case No. A-16-733154-B, in the District Court, Clark County, Nevada, on behalf of a putative class of Newport’s stockholders for claims related to the Newport Merger Agreement. The amended complaint contained substantially similar allegations related to Newport’s former board of directors’ alleged breaches of their fiduciary duties to Newport’s stockholders. The amended complaint sought monetary damages, including pre- and post-judgment interest. On June 22, 2017, the Court granted Defendants’ motion to dismiss and dismissed the amended complaint against all defendants but granted plaintiffs leave to amend.  
On July 27, 2017, plaintiffs filed a second amended complaint containing substantially similar allegations but naming only Newport’s former directors as defendants. On August 8, 2017, the Court dismissed the Company and Newport from the action. The second amended complaint seeks monetary damages, including pre- and post-judgment interest. The Court granted a motion for class certification on September 27, 2018, appointing Mr. Pincon and Locals 302 and 612 of the International Union of Operating Engineers - Employers Construction Industry Retirement Trust as class representatives. On June 11, 2018, plaintiff Dixon Chung was voluntarily dismissed from the litigation. Discovery is ongoing in this action.  
On November 29, 2018, a complaint captioned Brian Morris et. al. v. Electro Scientific Industries, Inc. et al. was filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of Oregon by alleged former stockholders of Electro Scientific Industries, Inc. (“ESI”) in connection with the acquisition of ESI by the Company. The complaint named the Company’s subsidiary, ESI, and the former members of ESI’s board of directors as defendants. Five additional complaints were subsequently filed, two in the U.S. District Court for the District of Oregon and three in the Multnomah County Circuit Court in the State of Oregon. The cases filed in the U.S. District Court were dated December 6, 2018 and December 12, 2018 and captioned Melvyn Klein et. al. v. Electro Scientific Industries, Inc. et al. and Donald Mager et. al. v. Electro Scientific Industries, Inc. et al., respectively. The complaints filed in Multnomah County Circuit Court were dated December 5, 2018, December 5, 2018 and December 13, 2018 and captioned Michael Kent et. al v. Electro Scientific Industries, Inc. et al., Christopher Stanley et. al v. Electro Scientific Industries, Inc. et al. and Eduardo Colmenares et. al. v. Electro Scientific Industries, Inc., MKS Instruments, Inc., et al., respectively (collectively with Brian Morris et. al. v. Electro Scientific Industries, Inc. et. al., the “Lawsuits”).  
On February 26, 2019, the parties entered into a settlement agreement, pursuant to which plaintiffs dismissed their individual claims with prejudice and class claims without prejudice in return for ESI’s previous supplemental merger related disclosures in connection with the transaction. ESI provided supplemental merger related disclosures to eliminate the burden and expense of litigation and to avoid any possible disruption to the merger that could result from further litigation.  
 ITEM 1A.  
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.  
