We are a global provider of instruments, subsystems and process control solutions that measure, monitor, deliver, analyze, power and control critical parameters of advanced manufacturing processes to improve process performance and productivity. Our products are derived from our core competencies in pressure measurement and control, flow measurement and control, gas and vapor delivery, gas composition analysis, residual gas analysis, leak detection, control technology, ozone generation and delivery, power, reactive gas generation, vacuum technology, lasers, photonics, sub-micron positioning, vibration control, and optics. We also provide services relating to the maintenance and repair of our products, installation services and training.  
Our primary served markets are manufacturers of capital equipment for semiconductor manufacturing, industrial technologies, life and health sciences, as well as research and defense. We have a diverse base of customers. Approximately 58% of our net revenues for both the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 were from sales to semiconductor capital equipment manufacturers and semiconductor device manufacturers.  
Approximately 42% of our net revenues for both the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 were from other advanced manufacturing applications. These include, but are not limited to, industrial technologies, life and health sciences, and research and defense.  
A significant portion of our net revenues is from sales to customers in international markets. For both six month periods ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, international net revenues accounted for approximately 50% of our total net revenues. A significant portion of our international net revenues was from South Korea, Japan, Germany, Israel and China. We expect that international net revenues will continue to represent a significant percentage of our total net revenues. Long-lived assets located in the United States were $132 million and $125 million as of June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, excluding goodwill and intangibles, and long-term tax-related accounts. Long-lived assets located outside of the United States were $76 million and $78 million as of June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, excluding goodwill and intangibles, and long-term tax-related accounts.  
We adopted ASC 606 on January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method for all contracts not completed as of the date of adoption. The reported results for the six months ended June 30, 2018 reflect the application of ASC 606 guidance while the reported results for 2017 were prepared under the guidance of ASC 605, Revenue Recognition (ASC 605).  
We have recorded a net increase to opening retained earnings of $1.8 million as of January 1, 2018 due to the cumulative impact of adopting ASC 606, with the impact primarily related to its service business and certain custom products. The impact to revenues for the quarter ended June 30, 2018 was immaterial as a result of applying ASC 606.  
Revenue under ASC 606 is recognized when or as obligations under the terms of a contract with our customer has been satisfied and control has transferred to the customer. The majority of our performance obligations, and associated revenue, are transferred to customers at a point in time, generally upon shipment of a product to the customer or receipt of the product by the customer and without significant judgments. Installation services are not significant and are usually completed in a short period of time (normally less than two weeks) and therefore, recorded at a point in time when the installation services are completed, rather than over time as they are not material. Extended warranty, service contracts, and repair services, which are transferred to the customer over time, are recorded as revenue as the services are performed. For repair services, we make an accrual at quarter end based upon historical repair times within our product groups to record revenue based upon the estimated number of days completed to date, which is consistent with ratable recognition. Customized products with no alternative future use to us, and that have an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date, are also recorded over time. We consider this to be a faithful depiction of the transfer to the customer of revenue over time as the work performed daily is primarily ratable over time.  
Revenue is measured as the amount of consideration we expect to receive in exchange for transferring goods or providing services. Performance obligations promised in a contract are identified based on the products or services that will be transferred to the customer that are both capable of being distinct, whereby the customer can benefit from the product or service either on its own or together with other resources that are readily available from third parties or from us, and are distinct in the context of the contract, whereby the transfer of the product or service is separately identifiable from other promises in the contract. Sales, value add, and other taxes we collect concurrent with revenue-producing activities are excluded from revenue. Our normal payment terms are 30 to 60 days but vary by the type and location of our customers and the products or services offered. The time between invoicing and when payment is due is not significant. For certain products or services and customer types, we require payment before the products or services are delivered to the customer. None of our contracts as of June 30, 2018 contain a significant financing component. Contract assets as of January 1 and June 30, 2018 were $3.1 million and $3.3 million, respectively, and included in other current assets.  
We periodically enter into contracts with our customers in which a customer may purchase a combination of goods and or services, such as products with installation services or extended warranty obligations. These contracts include multiple promises that we evaluate to determine if the promises are separate performance obligations. Once we determine the performance obligations, we then determine the transaction price, which includes estimating the amount of variable consideration to be included in the transaction price, if any. To the extent the transaction price includes variable consideration, we estimate the amount of variable consideration that should be included in the transaction price utilizing either the expected value method or the most likely amount method depending on the method we expect to better predict the amount of consideration to which it will be entitled. There are no constraints on the variable consideration recorded. We then allocate the transaction price to each performance obligation in the contract based on a relative stand-alone selling price charged separately to customers or using an expected cost plus margin method. The corresponding revenues are recognized when or as the related performance obligations are satisfied, which are noted above. Impacts of variable consideration were immaterial during the period.  
Our standard assurance warranty period is normally 12 to 24 months. We sell separately-priced service contracts and extended warranty contracts related to certain of our products, especially our laser products. The separately priced contracts generally range from 12 to 60 months. We normally receive payment at the inception of the contract and recognize revenue over the term of the agreement in proportion to the costs expected to be incurred in satisfying the obligations under the contract. We have elected to use the practical expedient related to disclosing the remaining performance obligations as of June 30, 2018, as the majority have a duration of less than one year.  
Product revenues increased $83.7 million and $192.4 million during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively, compared to the same period in the prior year. These increases were both primarily attributed to increases in net product revenues from our semiconductor customers of $47.8 million and $104.0 million for the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2018, respectively. The remainder of the increases were attributed to net product revenues from customers in our other advanced markets of $35.9 million and $88.4 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively, primarily from our industrial technologies market.  
Service revenues consisted mainly of fees for services related to the maintenance and repair of our products, sales of spare parts, and installation and training. In 2018, we started to record the sales of spare parts in our service revenue and related cost of sales line items rather than in our product revenue and related cost of sales line items. As a result, for the three and six months ended June 30, 2017, we reclassified $5.6 million and $10.6 million, respectively of product revenue for spare parts from product to service revenue. Service revenues increased $8.7 million and $17.1 million during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively, compared to the same periods in the prior year. These increases were primarily attributed to increases in net service revenues from our semiconductor customers of $6.1 million and $14.9 million for the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2018, respectively. The remainder of the increases were attributed to net service revenues from customers in our other advanced markets of $2.6 million and $2.2 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively, primarily from our industrial technologies market.  
Total international net revenues, including product and service, were $291.3 million and $568.9 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively, compared to $236.1 million and $455.2 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2017, respectively. The increases of $55.2 million and $113.7 million in total international net revenues for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively, compared to the same period in the prior year, were due to increases in net revenues in Japan, Germany, South Korea and China.  
Gross profit as a percentage of net product revenues increased by 1.8 percentage points and 1.1 percentage points for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively, compared to the same periods in the prior year. These increase were primarily attributed to higher revenue volumes.  
Gross profit as a percentage of net service revenues increased by 6.3 percentage points and 3.4 percentage points for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively, compared to the same periods in the prior year. These increases were primarily attributed to lower overhead costs.  
Research and development expenses increased $2.8 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018, compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily due to an increase of $2.0 million of compensation costs and related benefits and $0.7 million of project materials, related to increased investment in research and development activities.  
Research and development expenses increased $4.4 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018, compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily due to an increase of $3.3 million in compensation costs and benefits and $1.1 million of project materials, related to increased investment in research and development activities.  
Our research and development efforts are primarily focused on developing and improving our instruments, components, subsystems and process control solutions to improve process performance and productivity.  
We have thousands of products, and our research and development efforts primarily consist of a large number of projects related to these products, none of which is individually material to us. Current projects typically have durations of 3 to 30 months depending upon whether the product is an enhancement of existing technology or a new product. Our current initiatives include projects to enhance the performance characteristics of older products, to develop new products and to integrate various technologies into subsystems. These projects support in large part the transition in the semiconductor industry to smaller integrated circuit geometries and in the flat panel display and solar markets to larger substrate sizes, which require more advanced process control technology. Research and development expenses consist primarily of salaries and related expenses for personnel engaged in research and development, fees paid to consultants, material costs for prototypes and other expenses related to the design, development, testing and enhancement of our products.  
Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $4.6 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018, compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily due to an increase of $2.7 million of compensation costs and related benefits and $1.8 million of consulting and professional fees.  
We recorded acquisition and integration costs related to the Company’s acquisition of Newport Corporation in April 2016 (the “Newport Merger”) during the three and six months ended June 30, 2017. During the second quarter of 2018, we reversed a portion of these costs related to severance agreement provisions that were not met.  
We recorded restructuring costs during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, primarily comprised of severance costs related to transferring a portion of our shared services functions to a third party as well as the consolidation of certain shared service functions in the United States and Asia. We recorded restructuring costs during the three and six months ended June 30, 2017, primarily related to the restructuring of one of our international facilities and the consolidation of sales offices.  
We recorded $6.7 million of asset impairment charges for the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 due to the consolidation of two manufacturing plants. These charges primarily related to the write-off of certain goodwill and intangible assets.  
Amortization of intangible assets decreased by $0.6 million and $1.9 million during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively, compared to the same periods in the prior year, due to certain intangible assets becoming fully amortized.  
We recorded a $74.9 million gain for the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 on the sale of our Data Analytics Solutions business during the second quarter of 2017.  
The changes in other expense, net for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, primarily related to changes in foreign exchange rates.  
Net cash provided by operating activities was $182.4 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and resulted from net income of $228.0 million, which included non-cash charges of $72.6 million, offset by a net increase in working capital of $118.2 million. The net increase in working capital was primarily due to an increase in inventories of $59.5 million and an increase in accounts receivable of $42.5 million, related to an increase in business activities, a decrease in accrued compensation of $15.9 million, as year-end bonuses were paid during the first quarter of 2018, a decrease in income taxes of $11.4 million and an increase in other current and non-current assets of $4.3 million. These increases in working capital were offset by an increase in other current and non-current liabilities of $9.9 million and an increase in accounts payable of $5.6 million.  
Net cash provided by operating activities was $175.5 million for the six months ended June 30, 2017, and resulted from net income of $185.5 million, which included non-cash charges of $13.1 million, offset by a net increase in working capital of $23.1 million. The net increase in working capital was primarily due to an increase in inventories of $34.1 million and an increase in accounts receivable of $15.9 million, related to an increase in business activities and an increase in other current and non-current assets of $2.8 million. These increases, in working capital were partially offset by an increase in accrued income taxes of $21.9 million, other current and non-current liabilities of $5.0 million, and accounts payable of $2.9 million.  
Net cash used in investing activities was $16.5 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018, due to purchases of production-related equipment of $21.8 million, offset by net sales and maturities of short-term investments of $5.3 million. Net cash provided by investing activities was $103.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2017, due to proceeds received from the sale of our Data Analytics Solutions business of $72.5 million and net sales and maturities of short-term investments of $40.9 million, offset by purchases of production-related equipment of $9.7 million.  
On July 25, 2011, our Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program for the repurchase of up to an aggregate of $200 million of our outstanding common stock from time to time in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or through other appropriate means. The timing and quantity of any shares repurchased depends upon a variety of factors, including business conditions, stock market conditions and business development activities, including but not limited to merger and acquisition opportunities. These repurchases may be commenced, suspended or discontinued at any time without prior notice. We have repurchased approximately 1,770,000 shares of common stock for approximately $52.0 million pursuant to the program since its adoption. During the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, there were no repurchases of common stock.  
Holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends when and if they are declared by our Board of Directors. Our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.18 per share during the first quarter of 2018 and $0.20 per share during the second quarter of 2018, which totaled $20.8 million or $0.38 per share. Our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.175 per share during the first and second quarters of 2017, which totaled $18.9 million or $0.35 per share.  
On July 30, 2018, the our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.20 per share to be paid on September 7, 2018 to shareholders of record as of August 27, 2018. Future dividend declarations, if any, as well as the record and payment dates for such dividends, are subject to the final determination of our Board of Directors. In addition, under the terms of the our senior secured Term Loan Facility and our senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility, we may be restricted from paying dividends under certain circumstances.  
In April 2017, we completed the sale of our Data Analytics Solutions business for total proceeds of $72.5 million, net of cash sold and recorded a pre-tax gain of $74.9 million.  
In December 2016, we entered into Amendment No. 2 (the “Repricing Amendment 2”) to the Credit Agreement by and among the Company, the Lenders and Barclays Bank PLC, as administrative agent and collateral agent for the Lenders. The Repricing Amendment 2 decreased the applicable margin for our term loan under the Credit Agreement to 2.75% for LIBOR borrowings and 1.75% for base rate borrowings and reset the period during which a prepayment premium may be required for a Repricing Transaction until six months after the effective date of the Repricing Amendment 2. In November 2016, prior to the effectiveness of the Repricing Amendment 2, we prepaid an additional $40.0 million of principal under the Credit Agreement. In March 2017, we prepaid an additional $50.0 million of principal under the Credit Agreement.  
In July 2017, August 2017, November 2017 and March 2018 we voluntarily prepaid $50.0 million, $75.0 million, $50.0 million and $50.0 million, respectively, of principal under the Credit Agreement. As of June 30, 2018, after total principal prepayments of $425.0 million and regularly scheduled principal payments of $6.5 million, the total outstanding principal balance was $348.5 million. The interest rate as of June 30, 2018 was 3.7%.  
We incurred $28.7 million of deferred finance fees, original issue discount and repricing fees related to the term loans under the Term Loan Facility, which are included in long-term debt in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and are being amortized to interest expense over the estimated life of the term loans using the effective interest method. A portion of these fees have been accelerated in connection with the various debt prepayments during 2016, 2017 and 2018. As of June 30, 2018, the remaining balance of the deferred finance fees, original issue discount and repricing fees related to the Term Loan Facility was $6.4 million.  
Under the Credit Agreement, we are required to prepay outstanding term loans, subject to certain exceptions, with portions of our annual excess cash flow as well as with the net cash proceeds of certain asset sales, certain casualty and condemnation events and the incurrence or issuance of certain debt. We are also required to make scheduled quarterly payments each equal to 0.25% of the principal amount of the term loan, less the amount of certain voluntary and mandatory repayments after such date, with the balance due on the seventh anniversary of the closing date. As a result of making total prepayments of $425.0 million through June 30, 2018 and based on our Total Leverage Ratio, we are no longer required to make any scheduled quarterly principal payments until maturity of the loan.  
All obligations under the Term Loan Facility are guaranteed by certain of our domestic subsidiaries, and are secured by substantially all of our assets and the assets of such subsidiaries, subject to certain exceptions and exclusions.  
The Credit Agreement contains customary representations and warranties, affirmative and negative covenants and provisions relating to events of default. If an event of default occurs, the Lenders under the Term Loan Facility will be entitled to take various actions, including the acceleration of amounts due under the Term Loan Facility and all actions generally permitted to be taken by a secured creditor. At June 30, 2018, we were in compliance with all covenants under the Credit Agreement.  
We have incurred $1.2 million of costs in connection with the ABL Facility, which were capitalized and included in other assets in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and are being amortized to interest expense using the straight-line method over the contractual term of five years of the ABL Facility.  
One of our Japanese subsidiaries has lines of credit and short-term borrowing arrangements with two financial institutions which arrangements generally expire and are renewed at three-month intervals. The lines of credit provide for aggregate borrowings as of June 30, 2018, of up to an equivalent of $20.8 million U.S. dollars. One of the borrowing arrangements has an interest rate based on the Tokyo Interbank Offer Rate at the time of borrowing and the other has an interest rate based on the Japanese Short-Term Prime Lending Rate. Total borrowings outstanding under these arrangements were $6.8 million at June 30, 2018. There were no borrowings outstanding under these arrangements at December 31, 2017.  
We assumed various revolving lines of credit and a financing facility with the completion of the Newport Merger. These revolving lines of credit and financing facility have no expiration date and provide for aggregate borrowings as of June 30, 2018 of up to an equivalent of $11.3 million U.S. dollars. These lines of credit have a base interest rate of 1.25% plus a Japanese Yen overnight LIBOR rate. Total borrowings outstanding under these arrangements were $5.1 million and $3.0 million at June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017.  
One of our Austrian subsidiaries has various outstanding loans from the Austrian government to fund research and development. These loans are unsecured and do not require principal repayment as long as certain conditions are met. Interest on these loans is payable semi-annually. The interest rates associated with these loans range from 0.75% to 2.00%.  
Since inception of the Credit Agreement, we have made total prepayments of $425.0 million and regularly scheduled principal payments of $6.5 million. The total outstanding principal balance on our Credit Agreement was $348.5 million at June 30, 2018. As a result of making total prepayments of $425.0 million since the inception of the Credit Agreement and based on our Total Leverage Ratio, we are no longer required to make any scheduled principal payments until the maturity date of the loan. There have been no other changes outside the ordinary course of business to our contractual obligations as disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.  
In February 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-02, “Income Statement – Reporting Comprehensive Income (Topic 220).” The amendments in this standard allow a reclassification from accumulated other comprehensive income to retained earnings for stranded tax effects resulting from the Act. The provisions of this ASU are effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. We do not expect adoption of this ASU to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.  
In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-12, “Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815).” This standard better aligns an entity’s risk management activities and financial reporting for hedging relationships through changes to both the designation and measurement guidance for qualifying hedging relationships and the presentation of hedge results. The provisions of this ASU are effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. We do not expect adoption of this ASU to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.  
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, “Leases (Topic 842).” This standard requires the recognition of lease assets and liabilities for all leases, with certain exceptions, on the balance sheet. In transition, lessees and lessors have the option to either apply the standard retrospectively through a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the period of adoption or they can apply the new standard to comparative periods presented. This ASU is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. We have reviewed the requirements of the new standard and have formulated a plan for implementation. We have communicated our approach to our Audit Committee and will provide regular updates as appropriate. We are currently accumulating details on our population of leases. We have selected a software repository to track all of our lease agreements and to assist in the reporting and disclosure requirements required by the standard. We will continue to assess and disclose the impact that this ASU will have on our consolidated financial statements, disclosures and related controls, when known.  
