fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
Fiscal years 2018 and 2017 each contain(ed) 52 weeks.
The second quarter of fiscal 2018 ended on July 1, 2018 and the second quarter of fiscal 2017 ended on July 2, 2017.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP") and include the accounts of Cypress Semiconductor Corporation and its subsidiaries.
All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.
In the opinion of management, the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements contain all adjustments of a normal, recurring nature, which are necessary to state fairly the financial information included therein.
These financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included in Cypress' Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017.
The year-end condensed balance sheet data was derived from audited financial statements, but does not include all disclosures required by GAAP.
This standard update intends to increase the transparency and improve comparability by requiring entities to recognize assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for all leases, with certain exceptions.
The new standard states that a lessee will recognize a lease liability for the obligation to make lease payments and a right-of-use asset for the right to use the underlying asset for the lease term.
Leases will be classified as either finance or operating, with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
In May 2014, the FASB issued an ASU on revenue from contracts with customers, ASU No.
2014-09, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)."
This standard update outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers.
Collectively, we refer to ASU No.
2014-09, its related amendments, and Subtopic 340-40 as "Topic 606."


item2.txt
Cypress’ superior connectivity, flexible computing, fail-safe storage, and secure, ultra-low power solutions help developers bring their smart products to market quickly and easily.
Cypress is committed to providing customers with the best support and development resources enabling them to disrupt markets by creating new product categories in record time.
Memory Products Division  MPD focuses on specialized, high-performance parallel and serial NOR flash memories, NAND flash memories, static random access memory (SRAM), F-RAM™ ferroelectric memory devices, non-volatile SRAM (nvSRAM), other specialty memories and timing solutions.
This division also includes our subsidiary AgigA Tech Inc.
Refer to Part I Item 1. Business in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 for a discussion of our strategies.
Our total revenues increased by $30.3 million, or 5.1%, to $624.1 million for the three-month period ended July 1, 2018 compared to the same period in the prior year.


item3.txt
Our investment portfolio consists of a variety of financial instruments that expose us to interest rate risk, including, but not limited to, money market funds, certificates of deposit, and corporate securities.
Our debt obligations consist of a variety of financial instruments that expose us to interest rate risk, including, but not limited to our revolving credit facility, term loans and exchangeable notes.


item4.txt
Additionally, in designing disclosure controls and procedures, our management necessarily was required to apply its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible disclosure controls and procedures.


part2.txt
•restrictions on repatriation of cash earned in countries outside the U.S.; •inadequate levels of compliance with applicable anti-bribery laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.
For example, our sales were impacted in the second quarter of 2018 when the U.S. Department of Commerce banned U.S. companies from providing exports to ZTE, a Chinese telecoms equipment manufacturer (which ban was subsequently lifted in the third quarter of 2018) in an export controls case.


