fls.txt



item1.txt
Fiscal years 2018 and 2017 each contain(ed) 52 weeks.
The third quarter of fiscal 2018 ended on September 30, 2018 and the third quarter of fiscal 2017 ended on October 1, 2017.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP") and include the accounts of Cypress Semiconductor Corporation and its subsidiaries.
All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.
In the opinion of management, the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements contain all adjustments of a normal, recurring nature, which are necessary to state fairly the financial information included therein.
These financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included in Cypress' Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017.
The year-end condensed balance sheet data was derived from audited financial statements, but does not include all disclosures required by GAAP.
The Company continues to make progress on this plan which includes reaching out to the Company’s businesses, as well as assessing the Company’s portfolio of active leases.
While the Company has not yet completed its evaluation of the impact the new lease accounting guidance will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company expects to recognize right of use assets and lease liabilities for its operating leases, which will have a material impact on the Consolidated Balance Sheet upon adoption.
In May 2014, the FASB issued an ASU on revenue from contracts with customers, ASU No.
2014-09, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)."
This standard update outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers.
Collectively, we refer to ASU No.
2014-09, its related amendments, and Subtopic 340-40 as "Topic 606."
On January 1, 2018, we adopted Topic 606 using the modified retrospective method applied to all contracts that are not completed contracts at the date of initial application (i.e., January 1, 2018).
Results for reporting periods after January 1, 2018 are presented under Topic 606, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with our historic accounting under Topic 605.
There was no impact on the opening accumulated deficit as of January 1, 2018 due to the adoption of Topic 606.
We reclassified the sales return reserve to current liabilities presented as "Price adjustment and other revenue reserves" from the allowance for accounts receivable due to the adoption of Topic 606.


item2.txt
Cypress is a leader in advanced embedded solutions for the world’s most innovative automotive, industrial, consumer electronics and medical products.
Cypress’ superior connectivity, flexible computing, fail-safe storage, and secure, ultra-low power solutions help developers bring their smart products to market quickly and easily.
Cypress is committed to providing customers with the best support and development resources enabling them to disrupt markets by creating new product categories in record time.
The portfolio includes specialized, high-performance parallel and serial NOR flash memories, NAND flash memories, static random access memory (SRAM), F-RAM™ ferroelectric memory devices, nonvolatile SRAM (nvSRAM), other specialty memories and timing solutions.
This division also includes our nonvolatile DIMM subsidiary AgigA Tech Inc.


item3.txt
Our investment portfolio consists of a variety of financial instruments that expose us to interest rate risk, including, but not limited to, money market funds, certificates of deposit, and corporate securities.


item4.txt
In designing and evaluating our disclosure controls and procedures, management recognized that disclosure controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the disclosure controls and procedures are met.


part2.txt
Further rounds of tariffs have also been threatened by U.S. and Chinese leaders.
For the third quarter of 2018 (when the tariffs were imposed late in the quarter) an immaterial amount of our revenue arose from products subject to such tariffs.
approximately 2% of our revenue for the fourth quarter of 2018.


