fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
Fiscal years 2018 and 2017 each contained 52 weeks.
The first quarter of fiscal 2018 ended on April 1, 2018 and the first quarter of fiscal 2017 ended on April 2, 2017.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“U.S.
GAAP”) and include the accounts of Cypress and all of its subsidiaries.
All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.
In the opinion of management, the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements contain all adjustments of a normal, recurring nature, which are necessary to state fairly the financial information included therein.
The Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations for the three months ended April 1, 2018 is not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the full fiscal year.
The new standard states that a lessee will recognize a lease liability for the obligation to make lease payments and a right-of-use asset for the right to use the underlying asset for the lease term.
Leases will be classified as either finance or operating, with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition in the consolidated statements of operations.
In May 2014, the FASB issued an ASU on revenue from contracts with customers, ASU No.
2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” (“Topic 606”).
This standard update outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers.
The guidance is effective for annual reporting periods including interim reporting reports beginning after December 15, 2017.
Collectively, we refer to Topic 606, its related amendments and Subtopic 340-40 as the “new standard”.
On January 1, 2018, we adopted Topic 606 using the modified retrospective method applied to all contracts that are not completed contracts at the date of initial application (i.e., January 1, 2018).
Results for reporting periods after January 1, 2018 are presented under Topic 606, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with our historic accounting under Topic 605.


item2.txt
Cypress Semiconductor Corporation (“Cypress” or “the Company”) manufactures and sells advanced embedded system solutions for automotive, industrial, smart home appliances, consumer electronics and medical products.
MCD focuses on high-performance microcontroller (MCU), analog and wireless and wired connectivity solutions.
Memory Products Division  MPD focuses on specialized, high-performance parallel and serial NOR flash memories, NAND flash memories, static random access memory (SRAM), F-RAM™ ferroelectric memory devices, non-volatile SRAM (nvSRAM), other specialty memories and timing solutions.
This division also includes our subsidiary AgigA Tech Inc.
Our total revenues increased by $50.4 million, or 9.5%, to $582.2 million for the three-month period ended April 1, 2018 compared to the same period in the prior year.


item3.txt
our Term Loans is at variable rates.
In December 2017, we entered into fixed-for-floating interest rate forward swap agreements with two counterparties, starting from April 2018, to swap variable interest payments on our debt for fixed interest payments.


item4.txt
In designing and evaluating our disclosure controls and procedures, management recognized that disclosure controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the disclosure controls and procedures are met.


part2.txt
The information required by this item is included in Note 9 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements under Part I Item 1, of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and is incorporated herein by reference.


