fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
Fiscal years 2019 and 2018 each contain(ed) 52 weeks.
The second quarter of fiscal 2019 ended on June 30, 2019 and the second quarter of fiscal 2018 ended on July 1, 2018.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP") and include the accounts of Cypress Semiconductor Corporation and its subsidiaries.
All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.
In the opinion of management, the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements contain all adjustments of a normal, recurring nature, which are necessary to state fairly the financial information included therein.
Refer to Note 2 (Merger Agreement) for further details.
assets, does not apply the recognition requirements for leases of 12 months or less, and recognizes lease payments for short-term leases as expense either straight-line over the lease term or as incurred depending on whether the lease payments are fixed or variable.
These elections are applied consistently for all leases.
The terms and conditions of the subleases are commensurate with the terms and conditions within the original operating leases.
The terms of the subleases range from one to eight years, payments are fixed within the contracts, and there are no residual value guarantees or other restrictions or covenants in the leases.
The incremental borrowing rate used by the Company was based on baseline rates and adjusted by the credit spreads commensurate with the Company’s secured borrowing rate, over a similar term.
The standard introduces new requirements to increase transparency and comparability among organizations for leasing transactions for both lessees and lessors.
2016-02 requires a lessee to record a right-of-use ("ROU") asset and a lease liability for all leases with terms longer than 12 months.
These leases will be either finance or operating, with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition.
Under this method, the cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings is recognized on the date of adoption (December 31, 2018).


item2.txt
Refer to Note 2 (Merger Agreement) of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this Quarterly Report for a description of our pending acquisition by Infineon Technologies AG ("Infineon").
This division also includes our nonvolatile DIMM subsidiary AgigA Tech, Inc.
Refer to Part I, Item 1 (Business) in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 30, 2018 for a discussion of our strategies.
Our total revenue decreased by $91.9 million, or 14.7%, to $532.2 million in the three months ended June 30, 2019 compared to the same period in the prior year.
Revenue from the NAND flash business which was divested on April 1, 2019 was $49.5 million in the three months ended July 1, 2018.


item3.txt
Our investment portfolio consists of a variety of financial instruments that expose us to interest rate risk, including, but not limited to, money market funds, and certificates of deposit.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Regulatory and governmental entities may impose conditions on the granting of the required regulatory clearances and approvals described above.
In that case, lengthy negotiations may ensue among these regulatory or governmental entities, Infineon and us, which could delay the closing (and any receipt of Merger consideration) and increase the risk that the merger might not be completed.
Our joint venture for NAND flash memory products might not be successful.


