fls.txt
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (this "Quarterly Report") contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.


item1.txt
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
Fiscal years 2019 and 2018 each contain(ed) 52 weeks.
The first quarter of fiscal 2019 ended on March 31, 2019 and the first quarter of fiscal 2018 ended on April 1, 2018.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP") and include the accounts of Cypress Semiconductor Corporation and its subsidiaries.
All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.
In the opinion of management, the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements contain all adjustments of a normal, recurring nature, which are necessary to state fairly the financial information included therein.
These financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included in Cypress' Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2018.
Operating leases are included in operating lease right-of-use ("ROU") assets, other current liabilities, and operating lease liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets.
ROU assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
Finance leases are included in property and equipment, current portion of long-term debt, revolving credit facility and long-term portion of debt in our consolidated balance sheets.
These elections are applied consistently for all leases.
The terms and conditions of the subleases are commensurate with the terms and conditions within the original operating leases.
The term of the subleases range from one to eight years, payments are fixed within the contracts, and there are no residual value guarantees or other restrictions or covenants in the leases.
The standard introduces new requirements to increase transparency and comparability among organizations for leasing transactions for both lessees and lessors.
2016-02 requires a lessee to record a right-of-use asset and a lease liability for all leases with terms longer than 12 months.
These leases will be either finance or operating, with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition.


item2.txt
Cypress is committed to providing customers with quality support and engineering resources.
Microcontroller and Connectivity Division  MCD focuses on connectivity and computing solutions for the Internet of Things and automotive solutions that enhance the in-cabin user experience.
The portfolio includes specialized, high-performance parallel and serial NOR flash memories, static random access memories ("SRAM"), F-RAM™ ferroelectric memory devices, nonvolatile SRAMs ("nvSRAM"), and other specialty memories.
This division also includes our nonvolatile DIMM subsidiary AgigA Tech, Inc.
Refer to Part I Item 1. Business in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 30, 2018 for a discussion of our strategies.


item3.txt
Our investment portfolio consists of a variety of financial instruments that expose us to interest rate risk, including, but not limited to, money market funds, and certificates of deposit.


item4.txt
Additionally, in designing disclosure controls and procedures, our management necessarily was required to apply its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible disclosure controls and procedures.


part2.txt
Our joint venture for NAND flash memory products might not be successful.
We contributed our NAND flash memory business to the joint venture.


