fls.txt
The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis (“MD&A”) is intended to assist in an understanding of our financial condition and results of operations.


item1.txt
On October 12, 2018, Harris Corporation, a Delaware corporation (“Harris”), entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger Agreement”) with L3 Technologies, Inc., a Delaware corporation (“L3”), and Leopard Merger Sub Inc., a Delaware corporation and a newly formed, direct wholly owned subsidiary of Harris (“Merger Sub”), pursuant to which Harris and L3 agreed to combine their respective businesses in an all-stock merger, at the closing of which Merger Sub would merge with and into L3, with L3 continuing as the surviving corporation and a direct wholly owned subsidiary of Harris (the “L3Harris Merger”).
Upon completion of the L3Harris Merger, Harris was renamed “L3Harris Technologies, Inc.” (“L3Harris”), and each share of L3 common stock converted into the right to receive 1.30 shares (“Exchange Ratio”) of L3Harris common stock.
L3Harris was owned on a fully diluted basis approximately 54 percent by Harris shareholders and 46 percent by L3 shareholders immediately following the completion of the L3Harris Merger.
Under the acquisition method of accounting, we are required to measure identifiable assets acquired, liabilities assumed and any noncontrolling interests in the acquiree at their fair values as of the Closing Date.
We implemented a new organizational structure effective on June 29, 2019, which resulted in changes to our operating segments, which are also reportable segments and referred to as our business segments.
On September 13, 2019, we completed the sale of the Harris Night Vision business to Elbit Systems of America, LLC, a subsidiary of Elbit Systems Ltd., for $350 million (net cash proceeds of $346 million after selling costs and estimated purchase price adjustments), subject to final customary purchase price adjustments as set forth in the definitive agreement.
See Note C — Business Divestitures and Asset Sales in these Notes for more information regarding the divestiture of the Harris Night Vision business.
Commencing June 29, 2019, our fiscal year will end on the Friday nearest December 31, and the period commencing on June 29, 2019 will be a fiscal transition period ending on January 3, 2020 (the “Fiscal Transition Period”).
We also elected the package of practical expedients permitted under ASC 842 and did not reassess lease classification for existing or expired leases, whether expired or existing contracts contain a lease under the new definition of a lease or whether previously capitalized initial direct costs would qualify for capitalization under ASC 842.
Operating lease assets are classified as operating ROU assets, operating lease liabilities for obligations due within 12 months are classified as other current liabilities and operating lease liabilities for obligations due longer than 12 months are classified as other long-term liabilities.
We have some lease payments that are based on an index and changes to the index are treated as variable lease payments and recognized in the period in which the obligation for those payments is incurred.
In certain of our leases, the non-lease components are variable and are therefore excluded from lease payments to determine the lease asset.
The expected lease term represents the number of years we expect to lease the property, including options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise such option.
For finance leases, the asset is amortized on a straight-line basis over the lease term, and interest on the lease liability is recognized in interest expense.


item2.txt
This MD&A is provided as a supplement to, should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to, our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and accompanying Notes appearing elsewhere in this Report (the “Notes”).
As described in more detail in Note C — Business Divestitures and Asset Sales in the Notes, we completed the sale of the Harris Night Vision business on September 13, 2019 pursuant to a definitive agreement we entered as part of the regulatory process in connection with the L3Harris Merger.
As described in more detail in Note A — Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Standards in the Notes, commencing June 29, 2019, our fiscal year will end on the Friday nearest December 31, and the period commencing on June 29, 2019 will be the Fiscal Transition Period.
As described in more detail in Note A — Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Standards in the Notes and in Note Q — Leases in the Notes, effective June 29, 2019 we adopted ASC 842, a new lease standard that supersedes existing lease guidance under GAAP.
This standard requires, among other things, the recognition of right-of-use assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet for most lease arrangements and disclosure of certain information about leasing arrangements.
The increase in revenue for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with the quarter ended September 28, 2018 was primarily due to the inclusion of $2.67 billion of revenue (net of intercompany sales eliminations) from L3 operations in operating results for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 and organic revenue growth in our Space and Airborne Systems and Communication Systems segments.
The decrease in gross margin as a percentage of revenue (“gross margin percentage”) for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with the quarter ended September 28, 2018 was primarily due to $92 million of additional cost of sales related to the fair value step-up in inventory sold and a mix of program revenue and product sales with relatively lower gross margin percentage in the quarter ended September 27, 2019.
 The increases in Engineering, Selling and Administrative (“ESA”) expenses and ESA expense as a percentage of total revenue (“ESA percentage”) for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with the quarter ended September 28, 2018 were primarily due to the inclusion of L3 operations in operating results and $281 million of charges for integration, restructuring and other costs associated with the L3Harris Merger in the quarter ended September 27, 2019.
ESA expenses for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 also included a $12 million gain on sale of a product line, offset by a $12 million non-cash cumulative adjustment to lease expense.
 The increase in gain (loss) on sales of businesses for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with the quarter ended September 28, 2018 was due to a $229 million pre-tax gain on the sale of the Harris Night Vision business, which was completed on September 13, 2019.
The increase in non-operating income in the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with the quarter ended September 28, 2018 was primarily due to an increase in the non-service cost components of pension and other postretirement benefit plan income, reflecting the inclusion in pension and other postretirement benefit plan income of benefit plans assumed in connection with the L3Harris Merger.


item3.txt
We employ established policies and procedures governing the use of financial instruments to manage our exposure to such risks.


