The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis (“MD&A”) is intended to assist in an understanding of our financial condition and results of operations.As used in these Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) (these “Notes”), the terms “Harris,” “Company,” “we,” “our” and “us” refer to Harris Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries.
The accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) have been prepared by Harris, without an audit, in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) for interim financial information and with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).
The results for the second quarter and first two quarters of fiscal 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the full fiscal year or any subsequent period.
Reclassifications include certain human resources and information technology (“IT”) costs from the “Cost of product sales and services” line item to the “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited) and in these Notes.
In cases where employees are required to render service until they are terminated in order to receive the termination benefits and will be retained beyond the minimum retention period, we record the expense ratably over the future service period.
In fiscal 2017, we recorded $58 million of charges for integration and other costs in connection with our acquisition of Exelis Inc. (collectively with its subsidiaries, “Exelis”), substantially all of which were included as a component of the “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line item in our Consolidated Statement of Income in our Fiscal 2017 Form 10-K. We had liabilities of $34 million at December 29, 2017 and $43 million at June 30, 2017 associated with this integration activity and with previous restructuring actions.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2018, we adopted an accounting standards update issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) that requires recognition of the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory when the transfer occurs.
Consequently, this update eliminates the exception to the recognition of current and deferred income taxes for intra-entity transfers of assets other than for inventory until the assets have been sold to an outside party.
In May 2014, the FASB issued a comprehensive new revenue recognition standard that supersedes nearly all revenue recognition guidance under GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards and supersedes some cost guidance for construction-type and production-type contracts.This MD&A is provided as a supplement to, should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to, our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and accompanying Notes appearing elsewhere in this Report.
Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) to conform with current-year classifications.
The increase in segment gross margin in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to the increase in revenue.
The 2 percentage point decrease in segment gross margin percentage in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to a less favorable mix of program and product revenue.
The 2 percentage point decrease in segment ESA percentage in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to the increase in segment revenue and cost containment.
The increase in segment operating income and comparability of segment operating margin percentage in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2017 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment.
The decreases in segment operating income and operating margin percentage in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2017 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment.