fls.txt
This MD&A is provided as a supplement to, should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to, our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and accompanying Notes appearing elsewhere in this Report.


item1.txt
As used in these Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) (these “Notes”), the terms “Harris,” “Company,” “we,” “our” and “us” refer to Harris Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries.
Adopting this update resulted in a $27 million reduction of prepaid income tax assets from the “Other current assets” and “Other non-current assets” line items and a $27 million increase in the “Non-current deferred income taxes” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited) as of September 29, 2017.
In May 2014, the FASB issued a comprehensive new revenue recognition standard that supersedes nearly all revenue recognition guidance under GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards and supersedes some cost guidance for construction-type and production-type contracts.
The guidance in this standard is principles-based and, consequently, entities will be required to use more judgment and make more estimates than under prior guidance, including identifying contract performance obligations, estimating variable consideration to include in the contract price and allocating the transaction price to separate performance obligations.
To help financial statement users better understand the nature, amount, timing and potential uncertainty of the revenue that is recognized, this standard requires significantly more interim and annual disclosures.
This standard allows for either “full retrospective” adoption (application to all periods presented) or “modified retrospective” adoption (application to only the most current period presented in the financial statements, with certain additional required footnote disclosures).
As a result, this standard is now effective for fiscal years, and interim reporting periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2017, which for us is our fiscal 2019.
•Initiating the process of reviewing the additional disclosure requirements of this standard and the potential impact on our accounting systems and internal control structure.
•The timing of revenue recognition based on the more prescriptive guidance for recognizing revenue on an “over time” basis, especially for certain non-U.S. Government contracts based on existing contractual language;
Because of the broad scope of this standard, it could impact revenue and cost recognition across all of our business segments as well as related business processes and IT systems.
The full retrospective approach would require us to apply this standard to each subsequent period presented and to recognize the cumulative effect of adopting this standard as of the beginning of our fiscal 2017 - the earliest comparative period to be presented subsequent to adoption.
This standard requires lessees to record most leases on their balance sheets but recognize expenses on their income statements in a manner similar to existing lease guidance under GAAP.
This update requires that entities present components of net periodic pension cost and net periodic postretirement benefit cost other than the service cost component separately from the service cost component and outside the subtotal of income from operations.
Adopting this update will result in a decrease in operating income and an increase in the net non-operating components of income from continuing operations of $164 million and $183 million for fiscal 2017 and 2018, respectively.


item2.txt
This MD&A is provided as a supplement to, should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to, our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and accompanying Notes appearing elsewhere in this Report.
In addition, reference should be made to our audited Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Item 7.
Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) to conform with current-year classifications.
The increase in segment ESA expenses and segment ESA percentage in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to higher employment and distribution costs.
The increases in segment operating income and segment operating margin percentage in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2017 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment.
The increases in segment operating income and operating margin percentage in the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2017 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment for the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 and 2017.
The decreases in segment operating income and operating margin percentage in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2017 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment.
The decreases in segment operating income and operating margin percentage in the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2017 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment for the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 and 2017.
The increases in segment operating income and operating margin percentage in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2017 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment.
The increases in segment operating income and operating margin percentage in the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2017 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment for the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 and 2017.
business in the quarter ended March 30, 2018, and a $12 million non-cash charge from an adjustment for deferred compensation in the quarter ended December 29, 2017, partially offset by the absence in the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 of any Exelis acquisition-related charges, which totaled $38 million in the first three quarters of fiscal 2017.


