fls.txt



item1.txt
The interim financial statements are unaudited, but reflect all adjustments which are, in the opinion of management, of a normal, recurring nature necessary to provide a fair statement of results for the interim periods presented.
Fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2019 are both 52-week years ending on March 28, 2020 and March 30, 2019, respectively.
The quarters ended June 29, 2019 and June 30, 2018 each consisted of 13 weeks.
The new authoritative guidance requires the recognition of assets and liabilities arising from lease transactions on the balance sheet and additional disclosures about the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows from leases.
Accordingly, a lessee recognizes a lease asset for its right to use the underlying asset and a lease liability for the corresponding lease obligation.
The Company also has elected the package of practical expedients, which allows the Company not to reassess (1) whether any expired or existing contracts as of the adoption date are or contain a lease, (2) lease classification for any expired or existing leases as of the adoption date and (3) initial direct costs for any existing leases as of the adoption date.
The Company did not elect to apply the hindsight practical expedient when determining lease term and assessing impairment of right-of-use assets.
The Company's finance leases were immaterial.
While the percentage of worldwide net revenues from Avnet fluctuates from period to period, overall the percentage is within historical ranges.
For the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and 2019, approximately 50% and 63%, respectively, of the Company's net revenues were from products sold to distributors for subsequent resale to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) or their subcontract manufacturers.
and through geographical dispersion of sales.
Xilinx generally does not require collateral for receivables from its end customers or distributors.
The authoritative guidance for fair value measurements established by the FASB defines fair value as the exchange price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
Level 1 — Quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
The Company’s Level 2 assets consist of financial institution securities, non-financial institution securities, U.S. agency securities, foreign government and agency securities, mortgage-backed securities, debt mutual funds, asset-backed securities and commercial The Company’s Level 2 assets and liabilities also include foreign currency forward contracts and interest rate swap contracts.


item2.txt
•Core Products consist of all other product families.
The most recent modification was made on April 3, 2016, which was the beginning of our fiscal 2017, whereby we reclassified our product categories to be consistent with how these categories are analyzed and reviewed internally.
Specifically, we are grouping the products manufactured at the 28 nanometer (nm), 20nm and 16nm nodes into the Advanced Products category while all other products are grouped in the Core Products category.
Channel Revenue was slightly negative in the first three months of fiscal 2020 as shipments to distributors were lower than what the distributors subsequently shipped to the end customers in the period.


item3.txt
Our primary aim with our investment portfolio is to invest available cash while preserving principal and meeting liquidity needs.


item4.txt



part2.txt
"Financial Statements" for information regarding patent litigation.
The following risk factors and other information included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q should be carefully considered.
The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks to the Company.
Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that the Company’s management currently deems immaterial also may impair its business operations.
•market acceptance of our customers' products.
We rely on independent foundries for the manufacture of all of our products and a manufacturing problem or insufficient foundry capacity could adversely affect our operations.
Most of our wafers are manufactured in Taiwan by Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited (TSMC) and United Microelectronics Corporation (UMC).
We also have wafers manufactured in South Korea by Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
We rely on TSMC, UMC and our other foundries to produce wafers with competitive performance attributes.


