item1.txt
Fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2019 are both 52-week years ending on March 28, 2020 and March 30, 2019, respectively.
The quarters ended September 28, 2019 and September 29, 2018 each consisted of 13 weeks.
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued authoritative guidance on leases.
Operating lease expense is generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
The Company recognizes its operating leases within its other assets, other accrued liabilities and other long-term liabilities on the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheets.
The Company’s Level 2 assets consist of financial institution securities, non-financial institution securities, U.S. agency securities, foreign government and agency securities, mortgage-backed securities, debt mutual funds, asset-backed securities and commercial mortgage-backed securities.
Such impairment losses or observable price adjustments were not material during all periods presented.
These non-financial assets are reduced to fair value when impaired.
Substantially all time deposits were issued by institutions outside the U.S. as of September 28, 2019 and March 30, 2019.
Actual maturities may differ from contractual maturities because issuers may have the right to call or prepay obligations without call or prepayment penalties.
As of September 28, 2019, $550.7 million of marketable debt securities with contractual maturities of greater than one year were classified as short-term investments.
The Company manages counterparty credit risk in derivative contracts by reviewing counterparty creditworthiness on a regular basis, establishing collateral requirement and limiting exposure to any single counterparty.
See “Note 10.
Debt and Credit Facility” for more discussion related to interest rate swap contracts.
There was no ineffectiveness during all periods presented.
Stock-Based Compensation Plans The Company’s equity incentive plans are broad-based, long-term retention programs that cover employees, consultants and non-employee directors of the Company.


item2.txt
•Core Products consist of all other product families.
The most recent modification was made on April 3, 2016, which was the beginning of our fiscal 2017, whereby we reclassified our product categories to be consistent with how these categories are analyzed and reviewed internally.
The increases were primarily due to higher sales from Aerospace and Defense business.
Net revenues in Europe decreased in the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2020 from the comparable prior year periods.


item3.txt
Our investments in several of our wholly-owned subsidiaries are recorded in currencies other than the U.S. dollar.


item4.txt



part2.txt
"Financial Statements" for information regarding our legal proceedings.
•market acceptance of our customers' products.
In addition, weak economic conditions may adversely impact the financial health and viability of the foundries and result in their insolvency or their inability to meet their commitments to us.
Furthermore, natural disasters can also indirectly impact us.
In addition, difficulty in forecasting revenues compromises our ability to provide forward-looking revenue and earnings guidance.
•access to advanced packaging technology.
However, we may not be successful in executing this strategy.
We believe that automation and ease of design are significant competitive factors in this segment.
We could also face competition from our licensees.


