item1.txt
The Company adopted the new guidance on April 1, 2018, using the Full Retrospective method and restated the comparative prior periods.
Previously, revenue was recognized upon reported resale of the product by the distributors to their customers (sell-through) as reduced by actual allowances for distributor price adjustments.
The authoritative guidance is effective for public business entities for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017, and interim periods within those annual periods.
Subsequent changes in fair value from such investments are recorded in the condensed consolidated statements of income.
Accordingly, $13.8 million of prepaid taxes associated with prior period intra-entity asset transfers was reclassified to retained earnings.
In February 2016, the FASB issued authoritative guidance on leases.
Early adoption is permitted.
The amendments do not change the existing disclosure requirements in current GAAP.
The Company expects its accounts receivable to fluctuate as the Company partners with its distributors to manage their inventory requirements.
Level 1 — Quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
The Company’s Level 2 assets consist of financial institution securities, non-financial institution securities, U.S. agency securities, foreign government and agency securities, mortgage-backed securities, debt mutual funds, asset-backed securities and commercial mortgage-backed securities.
The Company's $500.0 million principal amount of 2.125% notes due March 15, 2019 (2019 Notes) and $500.0 million principal amount of 3.000% notes due March 15, 2021 (2021 Notes) are measured at fair value on a quarterly basis for disclosure purposes.
The Company’s investments in non-marketable securities of private companies are also recorded at fair value if the Company recognizes an observable price adjustments.
The Company reviewed the investment portfolio and determined that the gross unrealized losses on these investments as of September 29, 2018 and March 31, 2018 were temporary in nature as evidenced by the fluctuations in the gross unrealized losses within the investment categories.
As of September 29, 2018, $1.01 billion of marketable debt securities with contractual maturities of greater than one year were classified as short-term investments.
As a result of the use of derivative financial instruments, the Company is exposed to the risk that counterparties to derivative contracts may fail to meet their contractual obligations.
See “Note 10.


item2.txt
Due to the acquisition of Deephi Tech, we included business combinations as our critical accounting policy.
Fair value estimates are based on the assumptions management believes a market participant would use in pricing the asset or liability.
•Core Products consist of all other product families.
The increases were primarily due to higher sales from TME and Automotive.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
"Financial Statements" for information regarding patent litigation.
•market acceptance of our customers' products.
We rely on TSMC, UMC and our other foundries to produce wafers with competitive performance attributes.
For example, as a result of the March 2011 earthquake in Japan, production at the Seiko factory at Sakata was halted temporarily, impacting production of some of our older devices.
Furthermore, natural disasters can also indirectly impact us.
These factors make it difficult for us to forecast future sales and project quarterly revenues.
•access to advanced packaging technology.
However, we may not be successful in executing this strategy.


