item1.txt
The quarters ended December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017 each consisted of 13 weeks.
Note 2.Recent Accounting Changes and Accounting Pronouncements In April 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued the authoritative guidance, as amended, that outlines a new revenue recognition standard that replaces virtually all existing U.S. GAAP guidance on contracts with customers and the related other assets and deferred costs.
The authoritative guidance is effective for public business entities for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017, and interim periods within those annual periods.
Subsequent changes in fair value from such investments are recorded in the condensed consolidated statements of income.
Accordingly, $13.8 million of prepaid taxes associated with prior period intra-entity asset transfers was reclassified to retained earnings.
Accordingly, a lessee will recognize a lease asset for its right to use the underlying asset and a lease liability for the corresponding lease obligation.
Even though early adoption is permitted, Xilinx has decided not to early adopt such authoritative guidance.
The Company expects its accounts receivable to fluctuate as the Company partners with its distributors to manage their inventory requirements.
For the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019, Avnet's revenue accounted for 42% and 46% of the Company's worldwide net revenues, respectively.
The Company attempts to mitigate the concentration of credit risk in its trade receivables through its credit evaluation process, collection terms, distributor sales to diverse end customers and through geographical dispersion of sales.
Level 1 — Quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
The Company’s Level 2 assets consist of financial institution securities, non-financial institution securities, U.S. agency securities, foreign government and agency securities, mortgage-backed securities, debt mutual funds, asset-backed securities and commercial mortgage-backed securities.
The Company's $500.0 million principal amount of 2.125% notes due March 15, 2019 (2019 Notes), $500.0 million principal amount of 3.000% notes due March 15, 2021 (2021 Notes) and $750.0 million principal amount of 2.950% senior notes due June 1, 2024 (2024 Notes) are measured at fair value on a quarterly basis for disclosure purposes.
Such impairment losses or observable price adjustments were not material during all periods presented.
The gross unrealized losses that had been outstanding for more than twelve months were primarily related to mortgage-backed securities, which was primarily due to the general rising of the interest-rate environment.
The amortized cost and estimated fair value of marketable debt securities by contractual maturity, are shown in the table below.
Actual maturities may differ from contractual maturities because issuers may have the right to call or prepay obligations without call or prepayment penalties.


item2.txt
Fair value estimates are based on the assumptions management believes a market participant would use in pricing the asset or liability.
•Core Products consist of all other product families.
Net revenues in Europe increased in the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal 2019 from the comparable prior year periods.
The increases were primarily due to higher sales from TME and Automotive.


item3.txt
"Financial Information."


item4.txt



part2.txt
"Financial Statements" for information regarding patent litigation.
•market acceptance of our customers' products.
We rely on TSMC, UMC and our other foundries to produce wafers with competitive performance attributes.
In addition, suppliers of wafers and substrates were forced to halt production temporarily.
Furthermore, natural disasters can also indirectly impact us.
Occasionally, market factors may cause demand for our products to increase faster than expected.
•access to advanced packaging technology.
However, we may not be successful in executing this strategy.


