item1.txt
Fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018 are both 52-week years ending on March 30, 2019 and March 31, 2018, respectively.
The quarters ended June 30, 2018 and July 1, 2017 each consisted of 13 weeks.
Previously, revenue was recognized upon reported resale of the product by the distributors to their customers (sell-through) as reduced by actual allowances for distributor price adjustments.
The authoritative guidance is effective for public business entities for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017, and interim periods within those annual periods.
The Company adopted this authoritative guidance on April 1, 2018.
Accordingly, $13.8 million of prepaid taxes associated with prior period intra-entity asset transfers was reclassified to retained earnings.
In February 2016, the FASB issued authoritative guidance on leases.
Early adoption is permitted.
Net revenues from Avnet accounted for 51% and 41% of the Company’s worldwide net revenues in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The Company expects its accounts receivable to be relatively higher than normal on a temporary basis as the Company partners with its distributors to manage their inventory requirements.
The Company’s Level 2 assets consist of financial institution securities, non-financial institution securities, U.S. agency securities, foreign government and agency securities, mortgage-backed securities, debt mutual funds, asset-backed securities and commercial mortgage-backed securities.
Level 3 assets and liabilities include those whose fair value measurements are determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies or similar valuation techniques, as well as significant management judgment or estimation.
Such impairment losses or observable price adjustments were not material during all periods presented.
Furthermore, the aggregate of individual unrealized losses that had been outstanding for twelve months or more was not significant as of June 30, 2018 and March 31, 2018.
The Company neither intends to sell these investments nor concludes that it is more-likely-than-not that it will have to sell them until recovery of their carrying values.
Actual maturities may differ from contractual maturities because issuers may have the right to call or prepay obligations without call or prepayment penalties.
The Company manages counterparty credit risk in derivative contracts by reviewing counterparty creditworthiness on a regular basis, establishing collateral requirement and limiting exposure to any single counterparty.


item2.txt
•Core Products consist of all other product families.
Net revenues in Europe increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 from the comparable prior year period.
The increase was due to higher sales from Automotive.
As of June 30, 2018, we had $1.69 billion of cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments held in our non-U.S. jurisdictions.


item3.txt
Our investments in several of our wholly-owned subsidiaries are recorded in currencies other than the U.S. dollar.


item4.txt



part2.txt
"Financial Statements" for information regarding patent litigation.
•market acceptance of our customers' products.
We rely on TSMC, UMC and our other foundries to produce wafers with competitive performance attributes.
For example, we may experience supply shortages due to the difficulties foundries may encounter if they must rapidly increase their production capacities from low utilization levels to high utilization levels because of an unexpected increase in demand.
In addition, suppliers of wafers and substrates were forced to halt production temporarily.
Furthermore, natural disasters can also indirectly impact us.
•access to advanced packaging technology.
However, we may not be successful in executing this strategy.


