item1.txt
The new authoritative guidance also changes certain disclosure requirements and other aspects of current U.S. GAAP.
Accordingly, a lessee will recognize a lease asset for its right to use the underlying asset and a lease liability for the corresponding lease obligation.
Early adoption is permitted as of the beginning of the annual period.
In August 2017, the FASB issued authoritative guidance that amended the accounting for hedging activities.
Early adoption is permitted, including adoption in any interim periods after issuance of the authoritative guidance.
As of December 30, 2017 and April 1, 2017, Avnet accounted for 64% and 59% of the Company’s total net accounts receivable, respectively.
The Company attempts to mitigate the concentration of credit risk in its trade receivables through its credit evaluation process, collection terms, distributor sales to diverse end customers and through geographical dispersion of sales.
Xilinx generally does not require collateral for receivables from its end customers or from distributors.
The Company’s Level 2 assets consist of financial institution securities, non-financial institution securities, U.S. agency securities, foreign government and agency securities, mortgage-backed securities, debt mutual funds, bank loans, asset-backed securities and commercial mortgage-backed securities.
The Company reviewed the investment portfolio and determined that the gross unrealized losses on these investments as of December 30, 2017 and April 1, 2017 were temporary in nature as evidenced by the fluctuations in the gross unrealized losses within the investment categories.
Therefore, the Company believes that it will be able to collect both principal and interest amount due to the Company.
Actual maturities may differ from contractual maturities because issuers may have the right to call or prepay obligations without call or prepayment penalties.
As of December 30, 2017, $1.98 billion of marketable debt securities with contractual maturities of greater than one year were classified as short-term investments.
See “Note 10.
The interest rate swap contracts and the 2024 Notes were initially measured at fair value.
There was no ineffectiveness during all periods presented.
Note 7.


item2.txt
Net revenues from Core Products decreased in both the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal year 2018 from the comparable prior year periods.
Additionally, our investments in debt securities are liquid and available for future business needs.
As of April 1, 2017, cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments were $3.32 billion and working capital was $2.98 billion.
These items were partially offset by increases in accounts receivable, prepaid expenses and other assets as well as decreases in accounts payable.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
•market acceptance of our customers' products.
In addition, weak economic conditions may adversely impact the financial health and viability of the foundries and result in their insolvency or their inability to meet their commitments to us.
For example, we may experience supply shortages due to the difficulties foundries may encounter if they must rapidly increase their production capacities from low utilization levels to high utilization levels because of an unexpected increase in demand.
In addition, suppliers of wafers and substrates were forced to halt production temporarily.
Furthermore, natural disasters can also indirectly impact us.
More vertically-integrated competitors may be less exposed to some or all of these and other risks.
These factors make it difficult for us to forecast future sales and project quarterly revenues.
•access to advanced packaging technology.


