The condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Power Integrations, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the “Company”), and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
Except for the adoption of the new accounting standards for leases mentioned below, no material changes have been made to the Company’s significant accounting policies disclosed in Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Pronouncements, in its Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed on February 13, 2019, for the year ended December 31, 2018.
The Company elected the practical expedients under the transition guidance, which includes the use of hindsight in determining the lease term and the practical expedient package to not reassess whether any expired or existing contracts are or contain leases, to not reassess the classification of any expired or existing leases, and to not reassess initial direct costs for any existing leases.
Upon adoption, the Company recognized both right-of-use assets and corresponding lease liabilities of approximately $7.3 million and $7.2 million, respectively, on the condensed consolidated balance sheet.
The Company did not transfer any investments between Level 1 and Level 2 of the fair-value hierarchy in the nine months ended September 30, 2019, and the twelve months ended December 31, 2018.
Stock-based compensation expense in the three months ended September 30, 2019, was approximately $5.1 million, comprising approximately $4.4 million related to restricted stock unit (RSU) awards, $0.3 million related to performance-based (PSU) awards and long-term performance-based (PRSU) awards and $0.4 million related to the Company’s employee stock purchase plan.
In the nine months ended September 30, 2019, stock-based compensation expense was approximately $15.0 million, comprising approximately $13.2 million related to RSUs, $0.6 million related to PSUs and PRSUs and $1.2 million related to the Company’s employee stock purchase plan.
Stock-based compensation expense in the three months ended September 30, 2018, was approximately $4.4 million, comprising approximately $4.2 million related to RSUs, a reduction to expense of $0.1 million related to PSUs and PRSUs and $0.3 million related to the Company’s employee stock purchase plan.
In the nine months ended September 30, 2018, stock-based compensation expense was approximately $16.1 million, comprising approximately $12.4 million related to RSUs, $2.6 million related to PSUs and PRSUs and $1.1 million related to the Company’s employee stock purchase plan.
Under the performance-based awards program, the Company grants awards in the performance year in an amount equal to twice the target number of shares to be issued if the maximum performance metrics are met.
The number of shares that are released at the end of the performance year can range from zero to 200% of the target number depending on the Company’s performance.A large percentage of our products are ICs used in AC-DC power supplies, which convert the high-voltage AC from a wall outlet to the low-voltage DC required by most electronic devices.
These combinations of switches and drivers are used for power conversion in high-power applications (i.e., power levels ranging from a few kilowatts up to one gigawatt) such as industrial motors, solar- and wind-power systems, electric vehicles and high-voltage DC transmission systems.
We currently address AC-DC applications with power outputs up to approximately 500 watts, gate-driver applications of approximately ten kilowatts and higher, and motor-drive applications up to approximately 300 watts.
We also continue to expand our sales and application-engineering staff and our network of distributors, as well as our offerings of technical documentation and design-support tools and services to help customers use our products.
Also, our gate-driver products are critical components in energy-efficient DC motor drives, high-voltage DC transmission systems, solar and wind energy systems and electric transportation applications.
Prior to 2010 our addressable market consisted of AC-DC applications with up to about 50 watts of output, a served available market (“SAM”) opportunity of approximately $1.5 billion.There has not been a material change in our exposure to foreign currency exchange and interest rate risks from that described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.