ITEM 1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 



ADTRAN, INC. 



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 





 (In thousands, except per share amounts) 





See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. 





ADTRAN, INC. 



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (LOSS) 









See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. 





ADTRAN, INC. 



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) 









See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. 





ADTRAN, INC. 



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY 









See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. 





ADTRAN, INC. 



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY 









See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. 





ADTRAN, INC. 



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 









See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. 





ADTRAN, INC. 



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 





1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 



Basis of Presentation 



The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of ADTRAN®, Inc. and its subsidiaries (“ADTRAN”, the “Company”, “we”, “our” or “us”) have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) applicable to interim financial information presented in Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. Accordingly, certain information and notes required by generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (“GAAP”) for complete financial statements are not included herein. The December 31, 2018 Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet is derived from audited financial statements, but does not include all disclosures required by GAAP. 



In the opinion of management, all adjustments necessary to fairly state these interim statements have been recorded and are of a normal and recurring nature. The results of operations for an interim period are not necessarily indicative of the results for the full year. The interim financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in ADTRAN’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, filed with the SEC on February 28, 2019 (as amended on September 20, 2019, the “2018 Form 10-K”). 



Use of Estimates 



The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenue and expense during the reporting period. Our more significant estimates include the excess and obsolete inventory reserves, warranty reserves, customer rebates, determination of the deferred and accrued revenue components of multiple performance obligations sales agreements, estimated costs to complete obligations associated with deferred and accrued revenue, estimated income tax provision and income tax contingencies, the fair value of stock-based compensation, impairment of goodwill, valuation and estimated lives of intangible assets, estimated pension liability, fair value of investments and the evaluation of other-than-temporary declines in the value of investments. Actual amounts could differ significantly from these estimates. 



During the three months ended June 30, 2019, the Company revised the methodology used in estimating its excess and obsolete inventory reserves. Under the revised methodology, we establish reserves for estimated excess and obsolete inventory equal to the difference between the cost of the inventory and the estimated net realizable value of the inventory based on historical usage, known trends, inventory age, and market conditions. When we dispose of excess and obsolete inventories, the related disposals are charged against the inventory reserves. See Note 8 for additional information. 



Correction of Immaterial Misstatements 



During the three months ended June 30, 2019, the Company determined that there was an immaterial misstatement of its excess and obsolete inventory reserves in its previously issued annual and interim financial statements. The Company corrected this misstatement by recognizing a $0.8 million out-of-period adjustment during the three months ended June 30, 2019, which increased its excess and obsolete inventory reserves and cost of goods sold for the period. For the six months ended June 30, 2019, the out-of-period adjustment was a cumulative $0.2 million reduction in the Company’s excess and obsolete inventory reserves and cost of goods sold. In addition, the Company determined that a $1.0 million cash inflow related to an insurance recovery was incorrectly classified as a cash flow from operations instead of a cash flow from investing activities within the unaudited Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the three months ended March 31, 2019. The Company has corrected this misstatement in the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 to correctly reflect the $1.0 million insurance recovery as a cash inflow from investing activities. Management has determined that these misstatements were not material to any of its previously issued financial statements and that correction of the misstatements is also not material to the current or estimated annual 2019 financial results on either a quantitative and qualitative basis.  





Recent Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted 















Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements 





In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), which requires an entity to recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet and to disclose key information about the entity’s leasing arrangements. In July 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-10, Codification Improvements to Topic 842, Leases, which clarified certain aspects of ASU 2016-02, as well as ASU 2018-11, Leases (Topic 842), Targeted Improvements, which provided for an optional transition method allowing for the application of the legacy lease guidance, Leases (Topic 840), including its disclosure requirements, for the comparative periods presented in the year of adoption, with the cumulative effect of initially applying the new lease standard recognized as an adjustment to retained earnings as of the date of adoption. In March 2019, the FASB issued ASU 2019-01, Leases (Topic 842) Codification Improvements, which removed the requirement for an entity to disclose in the interim periods after adoption, the effect of the change on income from continuing operations, net income, any other affected financial statement line item, and any affected per share amount. For lessors, the new leasing standard requires leases to be classified as sales-type, direct financing or operating leases. These criteria focus on the transfer of control of the underlying lease asset. This standard and related updates were effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years.  



The Company adopted the new standard on January 1, 2019, the effective date of our initial application, using the optional transition method. At that time, the Company elected to carry forward the legacy ASC 840 disclosures for comparative periods and, therefore, did not adjust the comparative period financial information prior to January 1, 2019. In addition, the Company elected the package of practical expedients which allows for companies to not reassess whether any expired or existing contracts are or contain leases, not reassess historical lease classifications for expired or existing contracts and not reassess initial direct costs for existing leases. Additionally, the Company elected the practical expedients which allow the use of hindsight when determining the lease term, the short-term lease recognition exemption and the option to not separate lease and non-lease components. The adoption of this standard resulted in the recognition of a right-of-use asset and corresponding right-of-use liability on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet of $10.3 million as of January 1, 2019, primarily related to our operating leases for office space, automobiles and other equipment.  



As a lessee, the adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income or Statement of Cash Flows. See Note 12 for additional information.  



As a lessor, the adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet, Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income or Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. Prior to and after adoption, all of our leases in which we are the lessor were classified as sales-type leases.  















Contingent liabilities with a fair value totaling $1.2 million were recognized at the acquisition date, the payments of which were dependent upon SmartRG achieving future revenue, EBIT or customer purchase order milestones during the first half of 2019. The required milestones were not achieved and, therefore, we recognized a gain of $1.2 million upon the reversal of these liabilities during the second quarter of 2019.  



An escrow in the amount of $2.8 million was set up at the acquisition date to fund post-closing working capital settlements and to satisfy indemnity obligations to the Company arising from any inaccuracy or breach of representations, warranties, covenants, agreements or obligations of the sellers. The escrow is subject to arbitration with final settlement expected during the fourth quarter of 2020. The minimum and maximum potential release of funds to the sellers ranges from zero to $2.8 million.  



We recorded goodwill of $3.5 million as a result of this acquisition, which represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of net assets acquired. We assessed the recognition and measurement of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on historical and forecasted data for future periods and concluded that our valuation procedures and resulting measures were appropriate. 











For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, we incurred acquisition and integration related expenses and amortization of acquired intangibles of $0.5 million and $1.7 million, respectively, related to the SmartRG acquisition. No acquisition-related expenses were incurred during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 related to the SmartRG acquisition. 





We recorded a bargain purchase gain, net of income taxes, of $11.3 million during the first quarter of 2018, which represents the difference between the fair value of the net assets acquired over the cash paid. We assessed the recognition and measurement of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on historical and forecasted data for future periods and concluded that our valuation procedures and resulting measures were appropriate. 





The following unaudited supplemental pro forma information presents the financial results of the Company for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 as if the acquisition of the Sumitomo EPON business had occurred on January 1, 2018. This unaudited supplemental pro forma information does not purport to be indicative of what would have occurred had the acquisition been completed on January 1, 2018, nor is it indicative of any future results. There were no material, non-recurring adjustments to this unaudited pro forma information. 







The following is a description of the principal activities from which we generate our revenue by reportable segment. 



Network Solutions Segment 







To complement our Network Solutions segment, we offer a complete portfolio of maintenance, network implementation, solutions integration and managed services, which include hosted cloud services and subscription services.  



Sales by Category 























Revenue is measured based on the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for transferring goods or providing services to a customer and as performance obligations under the terms of the contract are satisfied. For transactions where there are multiple performance obligations, we account for individual products and services separately if they are distinct (if a product or service is separately identifiable from other items and if a customer can benefit from it on its own or with other resources that are readily available to the customer). As of September 30, 2019, we did not have any significant performance obligations related to customer contracts that had an original expected duration of one year or more, other than maintenance services, which are satisfied over time.  









Included in other receivables on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. 



Of the outstanding unearned revenue balance at December 31, 2018, $1.2 million and $11.7 million was recognized as revenue during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, respectively. 





Our effective tax rate increased from a benefit of 34.9%, excluding the tax effect of the bargain purchase gain, in the nine months ended September 30, 2018, to an expense of 197.1% in the nine months ended September 30, 2019. The increase in the effective tax rate between the two periods was primarily driven by the establishment of a valuation allowance against our domestic deferred tax assets in the amount of $37.1 million during the three months ended September 30, 2019, offset by a 9.38% rate reduction related to a transfer pricing study completed during the second quarter of 2019 that resulted in the assignment of operating expenditures to specific company locations, and the effective income tax rates among the respective jurisdictions. 



As of September 30, 2019, the Company had deferred tax assets totaling $49.4 million. As of September 30, 2019, a valuation allowance totaling $42.9 million has been established against our deferred tax assets. Of this amount, $37.1 million was established during the third quarter of 2019 relating to our domestic deferred tax assets. The remaining $5.8 million that was established in prior periods relates to state research and development credit carryforwards, and foreign net operating loss and research and development credit carryforwards, where we lack sufficient activity to realize those deferred tax assets. The remaining $6.5 million in deferred tax assets not offset by a valuation allowance are located in various foreign jurisdictions where the Company believes it is more likely than not we will realize these deferred tax assets.  









The Company continually reviews the adequacy of our valuation allowance and recognizes the benefits of deferred tax assets only as the reassessment indicates that it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will be realized in accordance with ASC 740, Income Taxes. Due to our recent decrease in revenue and profitability for the third quarter of 2019, management’s current expectations for revenue for the remainder of 2019, and all other positive and negative objective evidence considered as part of our analysis, our ability to consider other subjective evidence such as projections for future growth is limited when evaluating whether our deferred tax assets will be realized. As such, the Company is no longer able to conclude that it is more likely than not that our domestic deferred tax assets will be realized. The amount of the deferred tax assets considered realizable, however, could be adjusted in future periods in the event sufficient evidence is present to support a conclusion that it is more likely than not that all or a portion of our domestic deferred tax assets will be realized. 



5. PENSION BENEFIT PLAN 



We maintain a defined benefit pension plan covering employees in certain foreign countries. 







The components of net periodic pension cost, other than the service cost component, are included in other income (expense), net in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income. Service cost are included in cost of sales, selling, general and administrative expenses and research and development expenses in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income. 











Stock Options 







At September 30, 2019, total unrecognized compensation expense related to non-vested stock options was approximately $0.1 million, which is expected to be recognized over an average remaining recognition period of 0.3 years. Unrecognized compensation expense will be adjusted for actual forfeitures. 



All of the options above were issued at exercise prices that approximated fair market value at the date of grant.  



The aggregate intrinsic value of stock options represents the total pre-tax intrinsic value (the difference between ADTRAN’s closing stock price on the last trading day of the quarter and the exercise price, multiplied by the number of in-the-money options) that would have been received by the option holders had all option holders exercised their options on September 30, 2019. The amount of aggregate intrinsic value will change based on the fair market value of ADTRAN’s stock and was zero as of September 30, 2019. The total pre-tax intrinsic value of options exercised during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 was $0.1 million.  



The fair value of our stock options is estimated using the Black-Scholes model. The determination of the fair value of stock options on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes model is affected by our stock price, as well as assumptions regarding a number of complex and subjective variables that may have a significant impact on the fair value estimate. These variables include, but are not limited to, the volatility of our stock price and employee exercise behaviors. 



There were no stock options granted during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018. 



PSUs, RSUs and Restricted Stock 



The following table is a summary of our PSUs, RSUs and restricted stock outstanding as of December 31, 2018 and September 30, 2019 and the changes that occurred during the nine months ended September 30, 2019. 





The fair value of our PSUs with market and performance conditions is calculated using a Monte Carlo simulation valuation method. The fair value of RSUs and restricted stock is equal to the closing price of our stock on the business day immediately preceding the grant date.  





At September 30, 2019, total unrecognized compensation expense related to the non-vested portion of market-based PSUs, RSUs and restricted stock was approximately $11.6 million, which is expected to be recognized over an average remaining recognition period of 2.4 years. In addition, there was $8.2 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to unvested 2017 performance-based PSUs, which will be recognized over the remaining requisite service period of 0.3 years if achievement of the performance obligation becomes probable. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, no compensation expense was recognized related to these 2017 performance-based PSUs. Unrecognized compensation expense will be adjusted for actual forfeitures.  



At September 30, 2019, 2.7 million shares were available for issuance under shareholder-approved equity plans in connection with the grant and exercise of stock options, PSUs, RSUs or restricted stock. 





Debt Securities and Other Investments 















Actual maturities may differ from contractual maturities as some borrowers have the right to call or prepay obligations with or without call or prepayment penalties. 









Our investment policy provides limitations for issuer concentration, which limits, at the time of purchase, the concentration in any one issuer to 5% of the market value of our total investment portfolio. 



At September 30, 2019, we held a $25.6 million restricted certificate of deposit that is carried at cost and matures on January 8, 2020. This investment serves as a collateral deposit against the principal amount outstanding under loans made to ADTRAN pursuant to an Alabama State Industrial Development Authority revenue bond (the “Bond”), which totaled $25.6 million at September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018. At September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the estimated fair value of the Bond using a level 2 valuation technique was approximately $25.6 million and $25.4 million, respectively, based on a debt security with a comparable interest rate and maturity and a Standard and Poor’s credit rating of AA+. We have the right to offset the balance of the Bond with the collateral deposit in order to reduce the balance of the indebtedness. The Bond matures on January 1, 2020, and bears interest at the rate of 2% per annum. In conjunction with this program, we are eligible to receive certain economic incentives from the State of Alabama that reduce the amount of payroll withholdings we are required to remit to the state for those employment positions that qualify under this program. We are required to make payments in the amounts necessary to pay the interest on the amounts currently outstanding. We have made annual principal payments in addition to the interest amounts that are due. The restricted funds held as collateral against the outstanding principal amount of the Bond will be used to pay the outstanding principal and interest upon the Bond’s maturity. 



Marketable Equity Securities 



Our marketable equity securities consist of publicly traded stock, funds and certain other investments measured at fair value or cost (where appropriate).  



On January 1, 2018, we adopted ASU 2016-01, which requires us to measure all equity investments that do not result in consolidation and are not accounted for under the equity method at fair value, with any changes in fair value recognized in net investment gain (loss). Upon adoption, we reclassified $3.2 million of net unrealized gains related to marketable equity securities from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) to retained earnings. 



ASU 2016-01 also provides a measurement alternative for equity investments that do not have a readily determinable fair value in which investments can be recorded at cost less impairment, if any, adjusted for observable price changes for an identical or similar investment. We elected to record our equity investment that does not have a readily determinable fair value using the measurement alternative method. As of December 31, 2018, the Company had a note receivable of approximately $4.3 million, which was included in other receivables on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. During the three months ended March 31, 2019, this amount was repaid and reissued in the form of debt and equity. Approximately $3.4 million was issued as an equity investment, which represented a non-cash investing activity. The carrying value of this investment under the measurement alternative was $3.4 million as of September 30, 2019. The remaining amount, approximately $0.9 million, was converted into a new note receivable, which is included in other receivables on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet and represents a non-cash operating activity. 







As of September 30, 2019 and 2018, gross unrealized losses related to individual investments in a continuous loss position for twelve months or longer were not material. 













The fair value of our Level 2 securities is calculated using a weighted average market price for each security. Market prices are obtained from a variety of industry standard data providers, large financial institutions, and other third-party sources. These multiple market prices are used as inputs into a distribution-curve-based algorithm to determine the daily market value of each security.  









Inventory reserves are established for estimated excess and obsolete inventory equal to the difference between the cost of the inventory and the estimated net realizable value of the inventory based on historical usage, known trends, inventory age, and market conditions. At September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, our inventory reserve was $32.0 million and $30.0 million, respectively. 



9. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 







Depreciation expense was $3.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 and was $9.3 million and $9.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, which is recorded in cost of sales, selling, general and administrative expenses and research and development expenses in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income. 



We review long-lived assets used in operations for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable and the undiscounted cash flows estimated to be generated by the asset are less than the asset’s carrying value. During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, the Company recognized impairment charges of $3.9 million related to the abandonment of certain information technology projects in which we had previously capitalized costs related to these projects. The impairment charges were determined based on actual costs incurred as part of the projects. 









We evaluate the carrying value of goodwill during the fourth quarter of each year and between annual evaluations if events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of the reporting unit below its carrying amount. We have elected to first assess the qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit to which the goodwill is assigned is less than its carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform the two-step impairment test. If we determine that it is more likely than not that its fair value is less than its carrying amount, then the two-step impairment test will be performed. Based on the results of our qualitative assessment in the fourth quarter of 2018, we concluded that it was not necessary to perform the two-step impairment test. No events or circumstances occurred during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of goodwill below its carrying value.  





Intangible assets include those acquired in conjunction with several acquisitions since 2011, with the most recent being SmartRG, Inc. in November 2018.  







Amortization expense was $1.3 million and $0.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $4.0 million and $2.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. 









Operating Leases  



We have operating leases for office space, automobiles, and various other equipment in the United States and in certain international locations in which we do business. We also have other contracts, such as manufacturing agreements and service agreements, which we reviewed to determine if they contain any embedded leases. We specifically reviewed these other contracts to determine whether we have the right to substantially all of the economic benefit from the use of any specified assets or the right to direct the use of any specified assets, either of which would indicate the existence of a lease.  





As of September 30, 2019, our operating leases have remaining lease terms of two months to six years, some of which include options to extend the leases for up to five years, and some of which include options to terminate the leases within three months. For those leases that are reasonably assured to be renewed, we have included the option to extend as part of our right of use asset and lease liability. Leases with an initial term of 12 months or less are not recorded on the balance sheet and lease expense for these leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Lease expense related to these short-term leases was $0.1 million and $0.3 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, and is included in cost of sales, selling, general and administrative expenses and research and development expenses in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income. Lease expense related to variable lease payments that do not depend on an index or rate, such as real estate taxes and insurance reimbursements, was $0.3 million and $0.7 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019. For lease agreements entered into or reassessed after the adoption of Topic 842, we elected to not separate lease and non-lease components. None of our lease agreements contain any material residual value guarantees or material restrictive covenants. 









Reflects the adoption of the new lease accounting standard on January 1, 2019. 











Future operating lease payments include $7.6 million related to options to extend lease terms that are reasonably certain of being exercised. There are no legally binding leases that have not yet commenced.  











Certain renewal options were subsequently determined to not be reasonably assured of renewal upon the Company’s adoption of the new lease accounting standard on January 1, 2019.  













Sales-Type Leases 









Included in other receivables on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. 





Included in other assets on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. 















Stock Repurchase Program 



Since 1997, our Board of Directors has approved multiple share repurchase programs that have authorized repurchases of our common stock, which are implemented through open market or private purchases from time to time as conditions warrant. During the nine months ended September 30, 2019, we repurchased 13,000 shares of our common stock at an average price of $14.06 per share. As of September 30, 2019, we had the authority to purchase an additional 2.5 million shares of our common stock under the current authorization of up to 5.0 million shares. 



Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) 









With the adoption of ASU 2018-02 on January 1, 2019, stranded tax effects related to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 were reclassified to retained earnings. See Note 1.  













With the adoption of ASU 2018-02 on January 1, 2019, stranded tax effects related to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 were reclassified to retained earnings. See Note 1. 







With the Company’s adoption of ASU 2016-01 on January 1, 2018, unrealized gains on our equity investments were reclassified to retained earnings. See Note 7. 











Included in the computation of net periodic pension cost. See Note 5. 







Included in the computation of net periodic pension cost. See Note 5. 









Included in the computation of net periodic pension cost. See Note 5. 









Included in the computation of net periodic pension cost. See Note 5. 













14. EARNINGS (LOSS) PER SHARE 







For the three months ended September 30, 2018, 1.8 million stock options were outstanding but were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share. These stock options were excluded because their exercise prices were greater than the average market price of the common shares, during the quarter, therefore making them anti-dilutive under the treasury stock method. 



As a result of the net loss for the three months ended September 30, 2019, and for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, 4.1 million, 3.0 million and 2.3 million, respectively, shares of unvested stock options, PSUs, RSUs and restricted stock were excluded from the calculation of diluted EPS due to their anti-dilutive effect. 







We evaluate the performance of our segments based on gross profit; therefore, selling, general and administrative expenses, research and development expenses, interest and dividend income, interest expense, net investment gain (loss), other income (expense) and (provision) benefit for income taxes are reported on a company-wide, functional basis only. There is no inter-segment revenue. 



The following table presents information about the sales and gross profit of our reportable segments for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018. We do not produce asset information by reportable segment; therefore, it is not reported. 









Sales by Category 













16. LIABILITY FOR WARRANTY RETURNS 



Our products generally include warranties of 90 days to five years for product defects. We accrue for warranty returns at the time revenue is recognized based on our estimate of the cost to repair or replace the defective products. We engage in extensive product quality programs and processes, including actively monitoring and evaluating the quality of our component suppliers. Our products continue to become more complex in both size and functionality as many of our product offerings migrate from line card applications to total systems. The increasing complexity of our products will cause warranty incidences, when they arise, to be more costly. Our estimates regarding future warranty obligations may change due to product failure rates, material usage and other rework costs incurred in correcting a product failure. In addition, from time to time, specific warranty accruals may be recorded if unforeseen problems arise. Should our actual experience relative to these factors be worse than our estimates, we will be required to record additional warranty expense. Alternatively, if we provide for more reserves than we require, we will reverse a portion of such provisions in future periods. The liability for warranty obligations totaled $8.7 million and $8.6 million at September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively, which amounts are included in accrued expenses in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. During the three months ended September 30, 2018, we had a reversal of prior provisions, the impact of which is reflected in the table below. 









17. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES 



Securities Class Action Lawsuit 





Other Legal Matters 



In addition to the litigation described above, from time to time we are subject to or otherwise involved in various lawsuits, claims, investigations and legal proceedings that arise out of or are incidental to the conduct of our business (collectively, “Legal Matters”), including those relating to employment matters, patent rights, regulatory compliance matters, stockholder claims, and contractual and other commercial disputes. Such Legal Matters, even if not meritorious, could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. Additionally, an unfavorable outcome in a legal matter, including in a patent dispute, could require the Company to pay damages, entitle claimants to other relief, such as royalties, or could prevent the Company from selling some of its products in certain jurisdictions. While the Company cannot predict with certainty the results of the Legal Matters in which it is currently involved, the Company does not expect that the ultimate outcome of such Legal Matters will individually or in the aggregate have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. 



Investment Commitment  



We have committed to invest up to an aggregate of $7.9 million in two private equity funds, of which $7.7 million has been applied as of September 30, 2019. 





In October 2019, the Company announced its plans to reduce its operating expenses, including global restructuring. During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, the Company incurred approximately $1.1 million and $1.9 million, respectively, related to these plans. 



In February 2019, we announced the restructuring of certain of our workforce predominantly in Germany, which included the closure of our office location in Munich, Germany accompanied by relocation or severance benefits for the affected employees. We also offered voluntary early retirement to certain other employees, which was announced in March 2019. The restructuring is expected to be completed in the fourth quarter of 2019.  



In January 2018, we announced an early retirement incentive program for employees that met certain requirements. The cumulative amount incurred during the year ended December 31, 2018 related to this restructuring program was $7.3 million, of which $0.3 million and $7.2 million was incurred during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively. We do not expect to incur any additional expenses related to this restructuring program. 



















On October 30, 2019, we announced that our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.09 per common share to be paid to the Company’s stockholders of record as of the close of business on November 14, 2019. The payment date will be December 2, 2019 in the aggregate amount of approximately $4.3 million. 





ITEM 1. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 



Information with respect to this item may be found in Note 17 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this report. 



ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 



A list of factors that could materially affect our business, financial condition or operating results is described in Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors” in the 2018 Form 10-K. There have been no material changes to our risk factors from those disclosed in Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors” in the 2018 Form 10-K, other than as described in the risk factor below.  



We have identified certain material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, which could, if not remediated, materially adversely affect us. 



Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Section 404”) requires us to include in our annual reports on Form 10-K an assessment by the Company’s management of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management and our independent auditors to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404. Our compliance with Section 404 may require that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management efforts. In addition, if management or our independent auditors are unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial statements, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. 



As further described in Part I, Item 4 of this report, management has concluded that certain material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting existed as of December 31, 2018 and continued through September 30, 2019. Specifically, management has determined that controls were not effectively designed, documented, and maintained to verify that the existence of all inventories subject to our cycle count program were included and counted at the frequency required under the Company’s internal policies, and that the key reports and related data used to monitor the results of this program were not validated to ensure completeness and accuracy. Furthermore, management has determined that controls were not effectively designed and maintained over the determination of the estimated reserve for excess and obsolete inventory, including the review of significant inputs and assumptions used to determine our excess and obsolete inventory reserve, and to ensure the completeness and accuracy of key reports and related data used in the calculation of this reserve. Despite the existence of these material weaknesses, we believe that the consolidated financial statements included in this report (as well as in the 2018 Form 10-K and in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the periods ended March 31, 2019 and June 30, 2019) present fairly, in all material respects, our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows for the periods presented, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. However, these material weaknesses, if not remediated, could result in a misstatement of the Company’s future interim or annual consolidated financial statements and disclosures that would result in a material misstatement that would not be prevented or detected. 



Management has been working to further strengthen the Company’s internal controls relating to inventory. Specifically, the Company has begun redesigning and enhancing additional controls and procedures to ensure the completeness of our cycle count program and the completeness and accuracy of key reports and related data used to monitor the results of this cycle count program. Additionally, the Company has begun redesigning and implementing enhanced controls and procedures related to the review of significant inputs and assumptions used to determine our excess and obsolete inventory reserve, and to ensure the completeness and accuracy of key reports and related data used in the calculation of the excess and obsolete inventory reserve. The implementation of these measures is ongoing, and, while we believe that they will ultimately be effective in remediating the material weaknesses described above, our initiatives may not prove successful, and management may not be able to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective. Furthermore, even if management were to reach such a conclusion, if our independent auditors are not satisfied with the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, or if the independent auditors interpret the requirements, rules or regulations differently than we do, then they in the future may decline to issue a report on our internal control over financial reporting or may issue a report that is qualified. Any of these events could result in a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could negatively affect the price of our common stock. 





Changes in trade policy in the United States and other countries, specifically China, including the imposition of additional tariffs and the resulting consequences, may adversely impact our gross profits, gross margins, results of operations and financial condition. 



The U.S. government has imposed tariffs on a wide-range of products and goods manufactured in China and imported into the U.S. These tariffs are intended to address trade imbalances, which include decreasing imports from China and encouraging increased production of these products in the U.S. These proposals have, and could continue to, result in increased customs duties and tariffs. We import an increasing percentage of our products into the U.S from China, and an increase in customs duties and tariffs with respect to these imports could negatively impact our gross profit, gross margins and results of operations. These customs duties and tariffs may also cause other U.S. trading partners to take certain actions with respect to U.S. imports in their respective countries. Any potential changes in trade policies in the U.S. and the potential actions by other countries in which we do business could adversely impact our financial performance.  



