Item 2.
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
This report, including "Part I – Item 2 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and "Part II - Item 1A Risk Factors" contains certain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including statements regarding our strategy, financial performance and revenue sources.
We use words such as "anticipate," "believe," "plan," "expect," "future," "continue," "intend" and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements.
Our actual results could differ materially from the results anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors including those set forth under "Risk Factors," beginning at page 57 and elsewhere in this Form 10-Q.
Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements.
You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.
We disclaim any obligation to update information contained in any forward-looking statement.
These forward-looking statements include, without limitation, statements regarding the following:
•The effects that uncertain global economic conditions and fluctuations in the global credit and equity markets may have on our financial condition and results of operations;
•The effects and amount of competitive pricing pressure on our product lines and modest pricing declines in certain of our more mature proprietary product lines;
•Our ability to moderate future average selling price declines;
•The effect of product mix, capacity utilization, yields, fixed cost absorption, competition and economic conditions on gross margin;
•The amount of, and changes in, demand for our products and those of our customers;
•The impact of trade restrictions and changes in tariffs;
•Our expectation that in the future we will acquire additional businesses that we believe will complement our existing businesses;
•Our expectation that in the future we will enter into joint development agreements or other business or strategic relationships with other companies;
•The effect that distributor and customer inventory holding patterns will have on us;
•Our belief that customers recognize our products and brand name and use distributors as an effective supply channel;
•Anticipating increased customer requirements to meet voluntary criteria related to the reduction or elimination of substances in our products;
•Our belief that deferred cost of sales are recorded at their approximate carrying value and will have low risk of material impairment;
•Our belief that our direct sales personnel combined with our distributors provide an effective means of reaching our customer base;
•The accuracy of our estimates of the useful life and values of our property, assets and other liabilities;
•Our ability to increase the proprietary portion of our analog and interface product lines and the effect of such an increase;
•Our belief that our processes afford us both cost-effective designs in existing and derivative products and greater functionality in new product designs;
•The impact of any supply disruption we may experience;
•Our ability to effectively utilize our facilities at appropriate capacity levels and anticipated costs;
•That we adjust capacity utilization to respond to actual and anticipated business and industry-related conditions;
•That our existing facilities will provide sufficient capacity to respond to increases in demand with modest incremental capital expenditures;
•That manufacturing costs will be reduced by transition to advanced process technologies;
•Our ability to maintain manufacturing yields;
•Continuing our investments in new and enhanced products;
•The cost effectiveness of using our own assembly and test operations;
•Our anticipated level of capital expenditures;
•Continuation and amount of quarterly cash dividends;
•That our acquisition of Microsemi is expected to expand our range of solutions, products and capabilities by extending our served available market;
•Our reliance on government contracts could have a material adverse effect on results of operations;
•The sufficiency of our existing sources of liquidity to finance anticipated capital expenditures and otherwise meet our anticipated cash requirements, and the effects that our contractual obligations are expected to have on them;
•The impact of seasonality on our business;
•The accuracy of our estimates used in valuing employee equity awards;
•That the resolution of legal actions will not have a material effect on our business, and the accuracy of our assessment of the probability of loss and range of potential loss;
•The recoverability of our deferred tax assets;
•The adequacy of our tax reserves to offset any potential tax liabilities, having the appropriate support for our income tax positions and the accuracy of our estimated tax rate;
•That we expect cash payments of approximately $293.1 million after offsets by the utilization of various tax attribute carryforwards in the United States;
•That the one-time transition tax will be paid over a period of eight years;
•Our belief that the expiration of any tax holidays will not have a material impact on our overall tax expense or effective tax rate;
•Our belief that the estimates used in preparing our consolidated financial statements are reasonable;
•Our actions to vigorously and aggressively defend and protect our intellectual property on a worldwide basis;
•Our ability to obtain patents and intellectual property licenses and minimize the effects of litigation;
•The level of risk we are exposed to for product liability claims or indemnification claims;
•The effect of fluctuations in currency rates;
•That a significant portion of our future cash generation will be in our foreign subsidiaries;
•Our intention to satisfy the lesser of the principal amount or the conversion value of our debentures in cash;
•Changes to the taxation of undistributed foreign earnings could change our future intentions regarding reinvestment of such earnings;
•Our ability to collect accounts receivable.
Strategy
Our goal is to be a worldwide leader in providing specialized semiconductor products for a wide variety of embedded control applications.
Our strategic focus is on embedded control solutions, including general purpose and specialized microcontrollers, development tools and related software, analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products, wired and wireless connectivity products, field-programmable gate array (FPGA) products, timing systems, memory products and Flash-IP licensing.
We provide highly cost-effective embedded control solutions that also offer the advantages of small size, high performance, extreme low power usage, wide voltage range operation, mixed signal integration and ease of development, thus enabling timely and cost-effective integration of our solutions by our customers in their end products.
We license our SuperFlash technology and other technologies to wafer foundries, integrated device manufacturers and design partners throughout the world for use in the manufacture of advanced microcontroller products, gate array, radio frequency (RF) and analog products that require embedded non-volatile memory.
We sell our products to a broad base of domestic and international customers across a variety of industries.
The principal markets that we serve include consumer, automotive, industrial, aerospace, office communication, and computing.
Our business is subject to fluctuations based on economic conditions within these markets.
Our manufacturing operations include wafer fabrication, wafer probe and assembly and test.
The ownership of a substantial portion of our manufacturing resources is an important component of our business strategy, enabling us to maintain a high level of manufacturing control resulting in us being one of the lowest cost producers in the embedded control industry.
By owning wafer fabrication facilities and assembly and test operations, and by employing statistical process control
techniques, we have been able to achieve and maintain high production yields.
Direct control over manufacturing resources allows us to shorten our design and production cycles.
This control also allows us to capture a portion of the wafer manufacturing and the assembly and test profit margin.
We do outsource a significant portion of our manufacturing requirements to third parties.
Our acquisition of Microsemi significantly increased the amount of our outsourced manufacturing requirements.
We employ proprietary design and manufacturing processes in developing our embedded control products.
We believe our processes afford us both cost-effective designs in existing and derivative products and greater functionality in new product designs.
While many of our competitors develop and optimize separate processes for their logic and memory product lines, we use a common process technology for both microcontroller and non-volatile memory products.
This allows us to more fully leverage our process research and development costs and to deliver new products to market more rapidly.
Our engineers utilize advanced computer-aided design (CAD) tools and software to perform circuit design, simulation and layout, and our in-house photomask and wafer fabrication facilities enable us to rapidly verify design techniques by processing test wafers quickly and efficiently.
We are committed to continuing our investment in new and enhanced products, including development systems, and in our design and manufacturing process technologies.
We believe these investments are significant factors in maintaining our competitive position.
Our current research and development activities focus on the design of new microcontrollers, digital signal controllers, memory, analog and mixed-signal products, FPGAs, timing systems, Flash-IP, development systems, software and application-specific software libraries.
We are also developing new design and process technologies to achieve further cost reductions and performance improvements in our products.
See "Our operating results are impacted by both seasonality and the wide fluctuation of supply and demand in the semiconductor industry," on page 61 for discussion of the impact of seasonality on our business.
Acquisition of Microsemi
On May 29, 2018, we completed our acquisition of Microsemi Corporation, a publicly traded company headquartered in Aliso Viejo, California.
We paid an aggregate of approximately $8.19 billion in cash to the stockholders of Microsemi.
The total consideration transferred in the acquisition, including approximately $53.9 million of non-cash consideration for the exchange of certain share-based payment awards of Microsemi for stock awards of Microchip, was approximately $8.24 billion.
In addition to the consideration transferred, we recognized in our consolidated financial statements $3.18 billion in liabilities of Microsemi consisting of debt, taxes payable and deferred, pension obligations, restructuring, and contingent and other liabilities of which $2.06 billion of existing debt was paid off.
We financed the purchase price using approximately $8.10 billion of borrowings consisting of $3.10 billion under our amended and restated revolving line of credit (the "Credit Facility"), $3.00 billion under the term loan feature of the Credit Facility ("Term Loan Facility"), and $2.00 billion in newly issued senior secured notes.
We incurred $22.0 million in costs related to the acquisition.
As a result of the acquisition, Microsemi became a wholly owned subsidiary of Microchip.
Microsemi offers a comprehensive portfolio of semiconductor and system solutions for aerospace and defense, communications, data center and industrial markets.
Our primary reason for this acquisition was to expand our range of solutions, products and capabilities by extending our served available market.
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
General
Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. We review the accounting policies we use in reporting our financial results on a regular basis.
The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosure of contingent liabilities.
On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, business combinations, share-based compensation, inventories, income taxes, senior and junior subordinated convertible debt and contingencies.
We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Our results may differ from these estimates due to actual outcomes being different from those on which we based our assumptions.
We review these estimates and judgments on an ongoing basis.
We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our condensed consolidated financial statements.
Revenue Recognition - Distributors (prior to our adoption of ASC 606 on April 1, 2018)
Our distributors worldwide generally had broad price protection and product return rights which prevented the sales pricing from being fixed or determinable at the time of shipment to our distributors.
Therefore, revenue recognition was deferred until the pricing uncertainty was resolved, which generally occurred when the distributor sold the product to their customer.
At the time of shipment to these distributors, we recorded a trade receivable for the selling price as there was a legally enforceable right to payment, relieved inventory for the carrying value of goods shipped since legal title had passed to the distributor, and recorded the gross margin in deferred income on shipments to distributors on our condensed consolidated balance sheets.
Deferred income on shipments to distributors effectively represented the gross margin on the sale to the distributor; however, the amount of gross margin that we recognized in the subsequent periods was less than the deferred margin as a result of credits granted to distributors on specifically identified products and customers to allow the distributors to earn a competitive gross margin on the sale of our products to their end customers and price protection concessions related to market pricing conditions.
We sold the majority of the items in our product catalog to our distributors worldwide at a uniform list price.
However, distributors resold our products to end customers at a broad range of individually negotiated price points.
The majority of our distributors' resales required a reduction from the original list price paid.
Often, under these circumstances, we remitted back to the distributor a portion of their original purchase price after the resale transaction was completed in the form of a credit against the distributors' outstanding accounts receivable balance.
The credits were on a per unit basis and were not given to the distributor until they provided information to us regarding the sale to their end customer.
The price reductions varied significantly based on the customer, product, quantity ordered, geographic location and other factors.
Discounts to a price less than our cost have historically been rare.
The effect of granting these credits established the net selling price to our distributors for the product and resulted in the net revenue recognized by us when the product was sold by the distributors to their end customers.
Thus, a portion of the "deferred income on shipments to distributors" balance represented the amount of distributors' original purchase price that was credited back to the distributors in the subsequent periods.
We did not reduce deferred income on shipments to distributors or accounts receivable by anticipated concessions; rather, price concessions were typically recorded against deferred income on shipments to distributors and accounts receivable when incurred, which was generally at the time the distributor sold the product.
At March 31, 2018, we had approximately $479.6 million of deferred revenue and $145.8 million in deferred cost of sales recognized as $333.8 million of deferred income on shipments to distributors.
The deferred income on shipments to distributors that was ultimately recognized in our income statement was lower than the amount reflected on the balance sheet at March 31, 2018 due to additional price credits that were granted to the distributors when the product was sold to their customers.
These additional price credits historically have resulted in the deferred income approximating the overall gross margins that we recognized in the distribution channel of our business.
Distributor advances, reflected as a reduction of deferred income on shipments to distributors on our condensed consolidated balance sheets, totaled $203.9 million at March 31, 2018.
On sales to distributors, our payment terms generally require the distributor to settle amounts owed to us for an amount in excess of their ultimate cost.
The sales price to our distributors may be higher than the amount that the distributors will ultimately owe us because distributors often negotiate price reductions after purchasing products from us and such reductions are often significant.
It is our practice to apply these negotiated price discounts to future purchases, requiring the distributor to settle receivable balances, on a current basis,
generally within 30 days, for amounts originally invoiced.
This practice has an adverse impact on the working capital of our distributors.
As such, we have entered into agreements with certain distributors whereby we advance cash to the distributors to reduce the distributors' working capital requirements.
These advances are reconciled at least on a quarterly basis and are estimated based on the amount of ending inventory as reported by the distributor multiplied by a negotiated percentage.
Such advances had no impact on our revenue recognition or our condensed consolidated statements of operations.
We processed discounts taken by distributors against our deferred income on shipments to distributors' balance and true-up the advanced amounts generally after the end of each completed fiscal quarter.
The terms of these advances are set forth in binding legal agreements and are unsecured, bear no interest on unsettled balances and are due upon demand.
The agreements governing these advances can be canceled by us at any time.
We reduced product pricing through price protection based on market conditions, competitive considerations and other factors.
Price protection was granted to distributors on the inventory they had on hand at the date the price protection was offered.
When we reduced the price of our products, it allowed the distributor to claim a credit against its outstanding accounts receivable balances based on the new price of the inventory it had on hand as of the date of the price reduction.
There was no immediate revenue impact from the price protection, as it was reflected as a reduction of the deferred income on shipments to distributors' balance.
Products returned by distributors and subsequently scrapped have historically been immaterial to our consolidated results of operations.
We routinely evaluated the risk of impairment of the deferred cost of sales component of the deferred income on shipments to distributors account.
Because of the historically immaterial amounts of inventory that have been scrapped, and historically rare instances where discounts given to a distributor resulted in a price less than our cost, we believe the deferred costs were recorded at their approximate carrying value.
Revenue Recognition (subsequent to our adoption of ASC 606 on April 1, 2018)
Sales to our distributors are governed by a distributor agreement, a purchase order, and an order acknowledgment.
Sales to distributors do not meet the definition of a contract, as defined by ASC 606, until the distributor has sent in a purchase order, we have acknowledged the order, we have deemed the collectability of the consideration to be probable, and legally enforceable rights and obligations have been created; this generally occurs 30 days prior to the estimated ship date.
As is customary in the semiconductor industry, we offer price concessions and stock rotation rights to many of our distributors.
As these are forms of variable consideration, we estimate the amount of consideration to which we will be entitled using recent historical data and applying the expected value method.
Usually, there is only a single performance obligation in the contract, and therefore the entire transaction price is allocated to the single performance obligation.
After the transaction price has been allocated, we recognize revenue when the performance obligation is satisfied.
Substantially all of the revenue generated from contracts with distributors is recognized at the time risk and title of the inventory transfers to the end customer.
Sales to our direct customers are generally governed by a purchase order and an order acknowledgment.
Sales to direct customers usually do not meet the definition of a contract, as defined by ASC 606, until shipment of the product occurs.
Generally, the transaction price associated with contracts with direct customers is set at the standalone selling price and is not variable.
Usually, there is only a single performance obligation in the contract, and therefore the entire transaction price is allocated to the single performance obligation.
After the transaction price has been allocated, we recognize revenue when the performance obligation is satisfied.
Substantially all of the revenue generated from contracts with direct customers is recognized at the time risk and title of the inventory transfers to the customer.
Revenue generated from our licensees is governed by licensing agreements.
Our primary performance obligation related to these agreements is to provide the licensee the right to use the intellectual property.
The final transaction price is determined by multiplying the usage of the license by the royalty, which is fixed in the licensing agreement.
Revenue is recognized as usage of the license occurs.
Business Combinations
Share-based Compensation
We measure at fair value and recognize compensation expense for all share-based payment awards, including grants of employee stock options, restricted stock units (RSUs) and employee stock purchase rights, to be recognized in our financial statements based on their respective grant date fair values.
For the past several years, we have utilized RSUs as our primary equity incentive compensation instrument for employees.
Share-based compensation cost is measured on the grant date based on the fair market value of our common stock discounted for expected future dividends and is recognized as expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service periods.
Total share-based compensation during the nine months ended December 31, 2018 was $127.5 million, of which $116.6 million was reflected in operating expenses and $10.9 million was reflected in cost of sales.
Total share-based compensation included in our inventory balance was $10.8 million at December 31, 2018.
We recognize forfeitures as they occur.
If there are any modifications or cancellations of the underlying unvested securities, we may be required to accelerate, increase or cancel any remaining unearned share-based compensation expense.
Future share-based compensation expense and unearned share-based compensation will increase to the extent that we grant additional equity awards to employees or we assume unvested equity awards in connection with acquisitions.
Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or net realizable value using the first-in, first-out method.
We write down our inventory for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory in an amount equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated net realizable value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions.
If actual market conditions are less favorable than those we projected, additional inventory write-downs may be required.
Inventory impairment charges establish a new cost basis for inventory and charges are not subsequently reversed to income even if circumstances later suggest that increased carrying amounts are recoverable.
In estimating our inventory obsolescence, we primarily evaluate estimates of demand over a 12-month period and record impairment charges for inventory on hand in excess of the estimated 12-month demand.
Estimates for projected 12-month demand are generally based on the average shipments of the prior three-month period, which are then annualized to adjust for any potential seasonality in our business.
The estimated 12-month demand is compared to our most recently developed sales forecast to further reconcile the 12-month demand estimate.
Management reviews and adjusts the estimates as appropriate based on specific situations.
For example, demand can be adjusted up for new products for which historic sales are not representative of future demand.
Alternatively, demand can be adjusted down to the extent any existing products are being replaced or discontinued.
In periods where our production levels are substantially below our normal operating capacity, the reduced production levels of our manufacturing facilities are charged directly to cost of sales.
There was no charge to cost of sales for reduced production levels in each of the nine month periods ended December 31, 2018 and 2017.
Income Taxes
As part of the process of preparing our condensed consolidated financial statements, we are required to estimate our income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate.
This process involves estimating our actual current tax exposure together with assessing temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of items for tax and accounting purposes.
These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included within our condensed consolidated balance sheets.
We must then assess the likelihood that our deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income within the relevant jurisdiction and to the extent we believe that recovery is not likely, we must establish a valuation allowance.
We provided valuation allowances for certain of our deferred tax assets, including state net operating loss carryforwards and state tax credits, where it is more likely than not that some portion, or all of such assets, will not be realized.
We provided valuation allowances for certain deferred tax assets related to Microsemi.
Due to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "Act"), we released our valuation allowance on foreign tax credits during the period ending March 31, 2018, which was provisional.
With the conclusion of our measurement period as allowed under Staff Accounting Bulletin ("SAB") 118, we are not making any changes to our previous release of the valuation allowance on foreign tax credits.
Various taxing authorities in the U.S. and other countries in which we do business scrutinize the tax structures employed by businesses.
Companies of our size and complexity are regularly audited by the taxing authorities in the jurisdictions in which they conduct significant operations.
We are currently being audited by the tax authorities in the United States and in various foreign jurisdictions.
At this time, we do not know what the outcome of these audits will be.
We record benefits for uncertain tax positions based on an assessment of whether it is more likely than not that the tax positions will be sustained based on their technical merits under currently enacted law.
If this threshold is not met, no tax benefit of the uncertain tax position is recognized.
If this threshold is met, we recognize the largest amount of the tax benefit that is more likely than not to be realized upon ultimate settlement.
The accounting model as defined in Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 740 related to the valuation of uncertain tax positions requires us to presume that the tax position will be examined by the relevant taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information and that each tax position will be evaluated without consideration of the possibility of offset or aggregation with other positions.
The recognition requirement for the liability exists even if we believe the possibility of examination by a taxing authority or discovery of the related risk matters is remote or where we have a long history of the taxing authority not performing an exam or not challenging an issue.
We will record an adjustment to a previously recorded position if new information or facts related to the position are identified in a subsequent period.
All adjustments to the positions are recorded in the income statement.
Generally, adjustments will be recorded in periods subsequent to the initial recognition if the taxing authority has completed an audit of the period or if the statute of limitation expires.
Due to the inherent uncertainty in the estimation process and in consideration of the criteria of the accounting model, amounts recognized in the financial statements in periods subsequent to the initial recognition may significantly differ from the estimated exposure of the position under the accounting model.
On December 22, 2017, the Act was enacted into law.
The Act provides for numerous significant tax law changes and modifications including the reduction of the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from 35.0% to 21.0%, the requirement for companies to pay a one-time transition tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred and the creation of new taxes on certain foreign-sourced earnings.
As a fiscal year-end taxpayer, certain provisions of the Act began to impact us in our third quarter of fiscal 2018, while other provisions have become effective for us in fiscal 2019.
In addition to the impacts of tax reform on fiscal 2018, the Act also establishes new tax laws that are effective for our fiscal 2019, including, but not limited to, (1) a new provision designed to tax low-taxed income of foreign subsidiaries ("GILTI"), which allows for the possibility of using foreign tax credits ("FTCs") and a deduction of up to 50% to offset the income tax liability (subject to some limitations); (2) limitations on the deductibility of certain executive compensation; (3) limitations on the deductibility of interest expense; and (4) limitations on the use of FTCs to reduce the U.S. income tax liability.
While each of these provisions will have an impact on our tax expense for fiscal 2019 and future periods, the increase in tax expense for GILTI is the most significant.
In addition, we expect to be impacted by the limitations on the deductibility of interest expense, which we expect to generate disallowed interest expense carryforwards in future periods, causing an increase in our overall deferred tax asset position.
The FASB allows taxpayers to make an accounting policy election of either (1) treating taxes due on GILTI inclusions as a current-period expense when incurred or (2) recognizing deferred taxes for temporary basis differences that are expected to reverse as GILTI in future years.
During the period ended December 31, 2018, we are making a policy choice to include taxes due on the future GILTI inclusion in taxable income when incurred.
Senior and Junior Subordinated Convertible Debt
We separately account for the liability and equity components of our senior and junior subordinated convertible debt in a manner that reflects our nonconvertible debt (unsecured debt) borrowing rate when interest cost is recognized.
This results in a bifurcation of a component of the debt, classification of that component in equity and the accretion of the resulting discount on the debt to be recognized as part of interest expense in our condensed consolidated statements of operations.
Lastly, we include the dilutive effect of the shares of our common stock issuable upon conversion of the outstanding senior and junior subordinated convertible debt in our diluted income per share calculation regardless of whether the market price triggers or other contingent conversion features have been met.
We apply the treasury stock method as we have the intent and have adopted an accounting policy to settle the principal amount of the senior and junior subordinated convertible debentures in cash.
This method results in incremental dilutive shares when the average fair value of our common stock for a reporting period exceeds the conversion prices per share and adjusts as dividends are recorded in the future.
Contingencies
In the ordinary course of our business, we are exposed to various liabilities as a result of contracts, product liability, customer claims and other matters.
Additionally, we are involved in a limited number of legal actions, both as plaintiff and defendant.
Consequently, we could incur uninsured liability in any of those actions.
We also periodically receive notifications from various third parties alleging infringement of patents or other intellectual property rights, or from customers requesting reimbursement for various costs.
With respect to pending legal actions to which we are a party and other claims, although the outcomes are generally not determinable, we believe that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, cash flows or results of operations.
Litigation and disputes relating to the semiconductor industry are not uncommon, and we are, from time to time, subject to such litigation and disputes.
As a result, no assurances can be given with respect to the extent or outcome of any such litigation or disputes in the future.
We accrue for claims and contingencies when losses become probable and reasonably estimable.
As of the end of each applicable reporting period, we review each of our matters and, where it is probable that a liability has been or will be incurred, we accrue for all probable and reasonably estimable losses.
Where we can reasonably estimate a range of losses we may incur regarding such a matter, we record an accrual for the amount within the range that constitutes our best estimate.
If we can reasonably estimate a range but no amount within the range appears to be a better estimate than any other, we use the amount that is the low end of such range.
Contingencies of an acquired company that exist as of the date of the acquisition are measured at fair value if determinable, which generally is based on a probability weighted model.
If fair value is not determinable, contingencies of an acquired company are recognized when they become probable and reasonably estimable.
Results of Operations
Net Sales
We operate in two industry segments and engage primarily in the design, development, manufacture and sale of semiconductor products as well as the licensing of our SuperFlash and other technologies.
We sell our products to distributors and original equipment manufacturers, referred to as OEMs, in a broad range of markets, perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers and generally require no collateral.
In certain circumstances, a customer's financial condition may require collateral, and, in such cases, the collateral would be typically provided by letters of credit.
The increases in net sales in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018 compared to the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017 were due primarily to our acquisition of Microsemi.
We sell a large number of products to a large and diverse customer base and, excluding the impact of our Microsemi acquisition, there was not any product, customer or market that accounted for a material portion of the change.
The overall average selling price of our products increased significantly during the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018 compared to the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017 due to our acquisition of Microsemi, whose average selling price is higher than the average selling price of our historical business due to the types of products they offer and the types of customers and markets they serve.
•our acquisition of Microsemi, which closed on May 29, 2018;
•global economic conditions in the markets we serve;
•trade restrictions and changes in tariffs;
•semiconductor industry conditions;
•adoption of the new revenue recognition standard (ASC 606) on April 1, 2018;
•our new product offerings that have increased our served available market;
•customers' increasing needs for the flexibility offered by our programmable solutions;
•inventory holding patterns of our customers, including distributors;
•increasing semiconductor content in our customers' products; and
•continued market share gains in the segments of the markets we address.
Microcontrollers
Our microcontroller product line represents the largest component of our total net sales.
Microcontrollers and associated application development systems accounted for approximately 52.2% and 55.2% of our net sales for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018, respectively, compared to approximately 66.5% and 66.0% of our net sales for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017, respectively.
The decreases are due to our acquisition of Microsemi, whose microcontroller product line accounted for a relatively lower percentage of its total net sales.
Net sales of our microcontroller products increased 8.5% and 13.1% in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018, respectively, compared to the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017.
These sales increases were due primarily to our acquisition of Microsemi.
Historically, average selling prices in the semiconductor industry decrease over the life of any particular product.
The overall average selling prices of our microcontroller products have remained relatively constant over time due to the proprietary nature of these products.
We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, moderate pricing pressure in certain microcontroller product lines, primarily due to competitive conditions.
We have in the past been able to, and expect in the future to be able to, moderate average selling price declines in our microcontroller product lines by introducing new products with more features and higher prices.
We may be unable to maintain average selling prices for our microcontroller products as a result of increased pricing pressure in the future, which would adversely affect our operating results.
The average selling price of our microcontroller products is affected by these trends; however, variations in our product and geographic mix of sales can cause wider fluctuations in the average selling price of our microcontroller products in any given period.
Analog, Interface, Mixed Signal and Timing Products
Sales of our analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products accounted for approximately 28.8% and 28.6% of our net sales for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018, respectively, compared to approximately 23.3% and 23.8% of our net sales for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017, respectively.
The increases are due to our acquisition of Microsemi, whose analog, interface, mixed signal and timing product line accounted for a relatively higher percentage of its total net sales.
Net sales of our analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products increased 71.3% and 61.7% in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018, respectively, compared to the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017.
These sales increases were due primarily to our acquisition of Microsemi.
Analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products can be proprietary or non-proprietary in nature.
Currently, we consider a majority of our analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products to be proprietary in nature, where prices are relatively stable, similar to the pricing stability experienced in our microcontroller products.
The non-proprietary portion of our analog, interface, mixed signal and timing business will experience price fluctuations driven primarily by the current supply and demand for those products.
We may be unable to maintain the average selling prices of our analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products as a result of increased pricing pressure in the future, which would adversely affect our operating results.
We anticipate the proprietary portion of our analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products will increase over time.
Field-Programmable Gate Array (FPGA) Products
Our FPGA product line was primarily acquired as part of our acquisition of Microsemi on May 29, 2018.
Sales of our FPGA products accounted for approximately 7.1% and 5.1%, respectively, of our net sales in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018.
FPGA product pricing has historically been relatively stable because they are proprietary products with significant design in complexity and they are frequently designed into long-lived end applications.
Memory Products
Sales of our memory products accounted for approximately 3.2% and 3.5% of our net sales for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018, respectively, compared to approximately 4.8% and 5.0% of our net sales for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017, respectively.
Net sales of our memory products decreased 8.7% and 5.1% in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018, respectively, compared to the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017.
These sales decreases were due primarily to customer demand conditions.
Memory product pricing has historically been cyclical in nature, with steep price declines followed by periods of relative price stability, driven by changes in industry capacity at different stages of the business cycle.
We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, varying degrees of competitive pricing pressures in our memory products.
We may be unable to maintain the average selling prices of our memory products as a result of increased pricing pressure in the future, which could adversely affect our operating results.
Technology Licensing
Technology licensing revenue includes a combination of royalties associated with licenses for the use of our SuperFlash and other technologies, sales of our intellectual property, and fees for engineering services.
Technology licensing accounted for approximately 3.2% and 2.7% of our net sales for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018, respectively, compared to approximately 2.8% and 2.6% of our net sales for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017, respectively.
Net sales related to our technology licensing increased 57.8% and 38.3% in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018, respectively, compared to the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017.
Revenue from technology licensing can fluctuate over time based on the production activities of our licensees, the sale of patents and other intellectual property, and general economic and semiconductor industry conditions.
Multi-market and Other
Multi-market and Other (MMO) consists of manufacturing services (wafer foundry and assembly and test subcontracting), legacy application specific integrated circuits, and products for aerospace applications.
Revenue from these services and products accounted for approximately 5.5% and 4.9% of our net sales for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018, respectively, compared to approximately 2.6% of our net sales for each of the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017.
Net sales related to these services and products increased 191.6% and 150.1% in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018 compared to the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017.
These increases were due primarily to our acquisition of Microsemi, which significantly increased our portfolio of timing systems products.
MMO net sales can fluctuate over time based on general economic and semiconductor industry conditions as well as changes in demand for our manufacturing services (wafer foundry and assembly and test subcontracting).
Distribution
Distributors accounted for approximately 49.9% and 50.9% of our net sales in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018 and approximately 53.7% and 54.2% of our net sales in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017.
The decreases in these percentages in the periods ended December 31, 2018 compared to the periods ended December 31, 2017 are due to our acquisition of Microsemi, whose distributors accounted for a smaller portion of net sales than Microchip's historical business.
Our distributors focus primarily on servicing the product requirements of a broad base of diverse customers.
We believe that distributors provide an effective means of reaching this broad and diverse customer base.
We believe that customers recognize Microchip for its products and brand name and use distributors as an effective supply channel.
Generally, we do not have long-term agreements with our distributors and we, or our distributors, may terminate our relationships with each other with little or no advance notice.
The loss of, or the disruption in the operations of, one or more of our distributors could reduce our future net sales in a given quarter and could result in an increase in inventory returns.
Our distributors maintained 36 days of inventory of our products at December 31, 2018 and March 31, 2018.
Our acquisition of Microsemi initially caused an increase in our overall days of inventory maintained by our distributors, however, inventory levels at Microsemi's distributors have decreased since the completion of the acquisition, bringing the overall days of inventory back to our historical levels.
Over the past five fiscal years, the days of inventory maintained by our distributors have fluctuated between 31 days and 40 days.
Prior to our adoption of ASU 2014-09-Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) on April 1, 2018, we did not believe that inventory holding patterns at our distributors materially impacted our net sales due to the fact that we recognized revenue based on when the distributor sold the product to their customer.
Upon our
adoption of Topic 606 on April 1, 2018, we are required to recognize revenue from distributors at the time our products are sold to the distributor.
As a result, beginning April 1, 2018, inventory holding patterns at our distributors may have a material impact on our net sales.
Sales by Geography
Americas sales include sales to customers in the U.S., Canada, Central America and South America.
Sales to foreign customers accounted for approximately 80% and 81% of our total net sales in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018 compared to approximately 85% of our total net sales in each of the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017.
Substantially all of our foreign sales are U.S. dollar denominated.
Sales to customers in Asia have generally increased over time due to many of our customers transitioning their manufacturing operations to Asia and growth in demand from the emerging Asian market; however, sales to Asia as a percentage of our total net sales decreased in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018 compared to the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017 due to our acquisition of Microsemi, whose sales to customers in Asia accounted for a smaller portion of their total net sales than Microchip's historical business, and to a lesser extent, trade restrictions and changes in tariffs.
Sales to customers in the Americas increased as a percentage of total sales in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018 compared to the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017 due to our acquisition of Microsemi, which had more concentration in the aerospace and defense industry in the Americas.
Our sales force in the Americas and Europe supports a significant portion of the design activity for products which are ultimately shipped to Asia.
Gross Profit
Our gross profit in the three months ended December 31, 2018 was $779.6 million, or 56.7% of net sales, compared to $607.1 million, or 61.1% of net sales, in the three months ended December 31, 2017.
Our gross profit in the nine months ended December 31, 2018 was $2,110.9 million, or 52.5% of net sales, compared to $1,805.6 million, or 60.6% of net sales, in the nine months ended December 31, 2017.
•charges of approximately $86.0 million and $375.7 million, respectively, in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018, related to the recognition of acquired inventory at fair value as a result of our acquisition of Microsemi which increased the value of our acquired inventory and subsequently increased our cost of sales and reduced our gross margins when the related revenue was recognized;
•inventory write-downs being lower than the gross margin impact of sales of inventory that was previously written down in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017; and
•fluctuations in the product mix of microcontrollers, analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products, memory products and technology licensing.
•continual cost reductions in wafer fabrication and assembly and test manufacturing, such as new manufacturing technologies and more efficient manufacturing techniques;
•lower depreciation as a percentage of cost of sales;
•unabsorbed capacity charges due to operating at below normal capacity; and
•favorable market conditions and product mix.
We adjust our wafer fabrication and assembly and test capacity utilization as required to respond to actual and anticipated business and industry-related conditions.
When production levels are below normal capacity, which we measure as a percentage of the capacity of the installed equipment, we charge cost of sales for the unabsorbed capacity.
During the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018, we operated at below normal capacity levels resulting in an unabsorbed capacity charge of $6.9 million and $11.9 million, respectively.
During the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017, our wafer fabrication facilities and assembly and test facilities operated at normal capacity levels.
The process technologies utilized in our wafer fabrication facilities impact our gross margins.
Our wafer fabrication facility located in Tempe, Arizona (Fab 2) currently utilizes various manufacturing process technologies, but predominantly utilizes our 0.5 micron to 1.0 micron processes.
Our wafer fabrication facility located in Gresham, Oregon (Fab 4) predominantly utilizes our 0.13 micron to 0.5 micron processes.
We continue to transition products to more advanced process technologies to reduce future manufacturing costs.
All of our production in Fab 2 and Fab 4 has been on 8-inch wafers during the periods covered by this report.
We consider normal capacity at Fab 2 and Fab 4 to be 90% to 95%.
Our wafer fabrication facility in Colorado Springs, Colorado (Fab 5) currently utilizes processes between 0.25 micron and 1.0 micron that run on 6-inch wafers.
We consider normal capacity at Fab 5 to be 70% to 75%.
As a result of our acquisition of Micrel in August 2015, we acquired a 6-inch wafer fabrication facility in San Jose, California and have since transitioned products previously manufactured at this facility to our Fab 2, Fab 4 and Fab 5 facilities.
During the quarter ended December 31, 2016, we decommissioned this San Jose facility and, in June 2017, we completed the sale of these assets for proceeds of $10.0 million.
Our overall inventory levels were $702.5 million at December 31, 2018, compared to $476.2 million at March 31, 2018.
Our overall inventory levels increased since March 31, 2018 because of our acquisition of Microsemi, which had $184.6 million of inventory as of December 31, 2018.
We maintained 108 days of inventory on our balance sheet at December 31, 2018 compared to 112 days of inventory at March 31, 2018.
Excluding the impact of the fair value mark-up from our Microsemi acquisition, we would have maintained 123 days of inventory on our balance sheet at December 31, 2018 compared to 112 days of inventory at March 31, 2018.
We expect our days of inventory levels in the March 2019 quarter to be flat to up 10 days compared to the December 2018 levels.
We believe our existing level of inventory will allow us to maintain competitive lead times and provide strong delivery performance to our customers.
We anticipate that our gross margins will fluctuate over time, driven primarily by capacity utilization levels, the overall product mix of microcontroller, analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products, memory products and technology licensing revenue and the percentage of net sales of each of these products in a particular quarter, as well as manufacturing yields, fixed cost absorption, and competitive and economic conditions in the markets we serve.
We operate assembly and test facilities in Thailand, the Philippines, and other locations throughout the world.
Approximately 38% and 37% of our assembly requirements were performed in our internal assembly facilities in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018, respectively, compared to approximately 41% and 39% during the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017, respectively.
Approximately 49% and 48% of our test requirements were performed in our internal test facilities in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018, respectively, compared to approximately 67% and 62% during the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017, respectively.
Third-party contractors located primarily in Asia perform the balance of our assembly and test operations.
The percentage of our assembly and test operations that are performed internally fluctuates over time based on supply and demand conditions in the semiconductor industry, our internal capacity capabilities and our acquisition activities.
The decreases in the percentage of assembly and test work that was performed internally in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018 compared to the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017 were primarily due to our acquisition of Microsemi, which outsources substantially all of its assembly and test requirements.
We believe that the assembly and test operations performed at our internal facilities provide us with significant cost savings compared to contractor assembly and test costs, as well as increased control over these portions of the manufacturing process.
We plan to continue to transition certain outsourced assembly and test capacity to our internal facilities.
We rely on outside wafer foundries for a significant portion of our wafer fabrication requirements.
Approximately 60% and 56% of our net sales came from products that were produced at outside wafer foundries in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018, respectively, compared to 43% and 42% in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017.
The increases were primarily due to our acquisition of Microsemi, which outsourced substantially all of its wafer fabrication requirements.
Our use of third parties involves some reduction in our level of control over the portions of our business that we subcontract.
While we review the quality, delivery and cost performance of our third-party contractors, our future operating
results could suffer if any third-party contractor is unable to maintain manufacturing yields, assembly and test yields and costs at approximately their current levels.
Selling, General and Administrative
Selling, general and administrative expenses for the three months ended December 31, 2018 were $174.8 million, or 12.7% of net sales, compared to $109.1 million, or 11.0% of net sales, for the three months ended December 31, 2017.
Selling, general and administrative expenses for the nine months ended December 31, 2018 were $515.5 million, or 12.8% of net sales, compared to $337.6 million, or 11.3% of net sales, for the nine months ended December 31, 2017.
Our goal is to continue to be more efficient with our operating expenses as our revenue increases.
Selling, general and administrative expenses include salary expenses related to field sales, marketing and administrative personnel, advertising and promotional expenditures and legal expenses.
Selling, general and administrative expenses also include costs related to our direct sales force, CEMs and ESEs who work in sales offices worldwide to stimulate demand by assisting customers in the selection and use of our products.
Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $65.7 million, or 60.2%, for the three months ended December 31, 2018 over the same period last year.
Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $177.9 million, or 52.7%, for the nine months ended December 31, 2018 over the same period last year.
The primary reasons for the increases in selling, general and administrative expenses were additional costs from our acquisition of Microsemi, including approximately $4.8 million and $36.3 million of acquisition-related legal and professional service expenses in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018, respectively.
Selling, general and administrative expenses fluctuate over time, primarily due to revenue and operating expense investment levels.
Amortization of Acquired Intangible Assets
Amortization of acquired intangible assets for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018 was $193.7 million and $497.2 million, respectively, compared to $121.0 million and $362.8 million for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017, respectively.
The primary reason for the increases in acquired intangible asset amortization was increased amortization from our acquisition of Microsemi partially offset by decreased amortization of intangible assets from our prior acquisitions.
Special (Income) Charges and Other, Net
During the three months ended December 31, 2018, we earned special income and other, net of $1.3 million which was comprised primarily of income from legal settlements, which were offset by employee separation costs.
During the nine months ended December 31, 2018, we incurred special charges and other, net of $57.0 million which was comprised primarily of $60.5 million of employee separation costs.
During the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017, we incurred special charges and other, net of $0.2 million and $17.3 million, respectively.
The special charges and other, net incurred in the
nine months ended December 31, 2017 is comprised primarily of a $19.5 million charge for fees associated with transitioning from a public utility provider to a lower cost direct access provider.
Our restructuring activities include workforce, property and other operating expense rationalizations as well as combining product roadmaps and manufacturing operations.
In connection with these activities, we incurred employee separations costs, contract exit costs, other operating expenses and intangible asset impairment losses.
The impairment charges in the nine months ended December 31, 2018 were recognized as a result of writing off intangible assets purchased from Microsemi prior to the close of the acquisition and other intangible assets that were impaired as a result of combining and prioritizing the project roadmaps of the combined companies.
Other Income (Expense)
Interest income in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018 was $0.7 million and $7.3 million, respectively, compared to $6.3 million and $14.4 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017.
The primary reason for the decreases in interest income relates to lower average cash and investment balances during the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018 compared to the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017.
During the nine months ended December 31, 2018, we used a substantial portion of our cash to help finance the purchase price of our acquisition of Microsemi, which closed on May 29, 2018.
Interest expense in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018 was $137.6 million and $366.7 million, respectively, compared to $49.7 million and $148.7 million for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017, respectively.
The primary reason for the increases in interest expense relates to our additional borrowings to help finance our acquisition of Microsemi.
During the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018, we recognized a loss of $0.2 million and $4.3 million, respectively, in connection with early pay downs of a portion of the outstanding balance on the term loan feature of our credit facility ("Term Loan Facility").
During the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017, we settled the remaining principal of our 2007 junior debt resulting in a loss on settlement of convertible debt of $2.1 million and $16.0 million, respectively.
Other loss, net in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018 was $2.5 million and $12.4 million, respectively.
Other loss, net in the three months ended December 31, 2017 was $2.9 million and other income, net in the nine months ended December 31, 2017 was $7.4 million.
The primary reason for these changes relates to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.
Provision for Income Taxes
Our provision for income taxes reflects tax on foreign earnings and federal and state tax on U.S. earnings.
Our effective tax rates for the nine months ended December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 were not meaningful due to the amount of pre-tax income and the tax benefits recorded during the period.
In fiscal 2019, approximately 25% of our net sales are expected to be generated in the U.S. at a combined federal and state effective tax rate that is higher than our overall effective tax rate.
We are also subject to taxation in many other jurisdictions where we have operations.
The effective tax rates that we pay in these jurisdictions vary widely, but they are generally lower than our combined U.S. federal and state effective tax rate.
Our domestic statutory tax rate for the nine months ended December 31, 2018 was approximately 22.2% and our domestic statutory tax rate for fiscal 2018 was approximately 32.6%.
Our non-U.S. blended statutory tax rates for the nine months ended December 31, 2018 and fiscal 2018 were much lower than this amount.
The difference in rates applicable in foreign jurisdictions results from a number of factors, including lower statutory rates, historical loss carry-forwards, financing arrangements and other factors.
Our effective tax rate has been, and will continue to be, impacted by the geographical dispersion of our earnings and losses.
Our foreign tax rate differential benefit primarily relates to our operations in Thailand, Malta and Ireland.
Our Thailand manufacturing operations are currently subject to numerous tax holidays granted to us based on our investment in property, plant and equipment in Thailand.
Our tax holiday periods in Thailand expire at various times in the future, however, we actively seek to obtain new tax holidays or we will be subject to tax at the statutory tax rate of 20%.
We do not expect the future expiration of any of our tax holiday periods in Thailand to have a material impact on our effective tax rate.
Our Microsemi operations in Malaysia are also subject to a tax holiday that effectively reduces Microsemi’s income tax rate in that jurisdiction.
Microsemi’s tax holiday in Malaysia was granted in 2009 and is effective through December 2019, subject to continued compliance with the tax holiday’s requirements.
The remaining material components of foreign income taxed at a rate lower than the U.S. are earnings accrued in Ireland at a 12.5% statutory tax rate and earnings accrued in Malta at a 0% effective tax rate.
Various taxing authorities in the U.S. and other countries in which we do business are increasing their scrutiny of the tax structures employed by businesses.
Companies of our size and complexity are regularly audited by the taxing authorities in the jurisdictions in which they conduct significant operations.
For U.S. federal, and in general for U.S. state tax returns, our fiscal 2005 and later tax returns remain open for examination by the taxing authorities.
We are currently being audited by the tax authorities in the United States and in various foreign jurisdictions.
At this time, we do not know what the outcome of these audits will be.
We record benefits for uncertain tax positions based on an assessment of whether it is more likely than not that the tax positions will be sustained based on their technical merits under currently enacted law.
If this threshold is not met, no tax benefit of the uncertain tax position is recognized.
If the threshold is met, we recognize the largest amount of the tax benefit that is more than 50% likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
We had $436.2 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments at December 31, 2018, a decrease of $1.76 billion from the March 31, 2018 balance.
The decrease in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments over this time period is primarily attributable to $1.74 billion in cash and $8.40 billion from additional debt to fund our acquisition of Microsemi and payoff Microsemi’s existing debt, partially offset by proceeds from new debt issuances of $4.99 billion, net borrowings of $3.33 billion on our Credit Facility and cash generated by operating activities.
Net cash provided from operating activities was $1.27 billion in the nine months ended December 31, 2018, compared to $1.06 billion in the nine months ended December 31, 2017.
The increase in net cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to higher cash provided by our acquisition of Microsemi in the nine months ended December 31, 2018.
During the nine months ended December 31, 2018, net cash used in investing activities was $6.77 billion compared to $961.6 million in the nine months ended December 31, 2017.
In the nine months ended December 31, 2018, investing cash flows included net cash and cash equivalents used to finance our acquisition of Microsemi of $7.85 billion net of $340.0 million of cash and cash equivalents acquired, offset by net cash inflows of $1.28 billion due to the sale of available-for-sale debt securities to fund our acquisition of Microsemi, and capital expenditures of $188.8 million.
During the nine months ended December 31, 2017, net investing activities resulted in a use of cash of $961.6 million primarily the net change in our investments, capital purchases and sale of assets.
Our level of capital expenditures varies from time to time as a result of actual and anticipated business conditions.
Capital expenditures in the nine months ended December 31, 2018 were $188.8 million compared to $148.4 million in the nine months ended December 31, 2017.
Capital expenditures were primarily for the expansion of production capacity, the addition of research and development equipment and new office buildings.
Capital expenditures in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 were relatively less than we had experienced in recent years as we delayed certain purchases until we had finalized and developed plans following our acquisition of Atmel regarding technology platforms and other manufacturing activities.
We currently intend to spend between $125 million and $150 million during the next twelve months to invest in equipment and facilities.
We believe that the capital expenditures anticipated to be incurred over the next twelve months will provide sufficient manufacturing capacity to support the growth of our production capabilities for our new products and technologies and to bring in-house more of the assembly and test operations that are currently outsourced.
We expect to finance our capital expenditures through our existing cash balances and cash flows from operations.
•net proceeds of $3.73 billion from borrowings under our Credit Facility;
•net proceeds of $1.99 billion from the issuance of our Senior Secured Notes;
•$3.0 billion of proceeds under our new Term Loan Facility;
•$2.06 billion of cash used to pay off Microsemi's existing debt;
On May 29, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Microsemi Corporation, a publicly traded company headquartered in Aliso Viejo, California.
We paid an aggregate of approximately $8.19 billion in cash to the stockholders of Microsemi.
The total consideration transferred in the acquisition, including approximately $53.9 million of non-cash consideration for the exchange of certain share-based payment awards of Microsemi for stock awards for our common stock, was approximately $8.24 billion.
In addition to the consideration transferred, we recognized $3.18 billion in liabilities in our consolidated financial statements of Microsemi consisting of debt, taxes payable and deferred, pension obligations, restructuring, and contingent and other liabilities of which $2.06 billion of existing debt was paid off.
We financed the purchase price using approximately $8.10 billion of borrowings consisting of $3.10 billion under our Credit Facility, $3.00 billion under the term loan feature of the Credit Facility ("Term Loan Facility"), and $2.00 billion in newly issued senior secured notes.
We incurred $22.0 million in acquisition costs related to the acquisition.
At December 31, 2018, we had $2.71 billion of outstanding borrowings under the Term Loan Facility.
In May 2018, we entered into an amended and restated credit agreement which provides for a revolving loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of approximately $3.84 billion, which was reduced to $3.60 billion in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 through the canceling of the 2020 Tranche, with a $250.0 million foreign currency sublimit, a $50.0 million letter of credit sublimit and a $25.0 million swingline loan sublimit.
The revolving loan facility consists of approximately $3.60 billion of revolving loan commitments (the "2023 Revolving Loans") that terminate on May 18, 2023 (the "2023 Maturity Date").
The Revolving Loans bear interest, at our option, at the base rate plus a spread of 0.00% to 1.00% or an adjusted LIBOR rate plus a spread of 1.00% to 2.00%, in each case, with such spread being determined based on the consolidated senior leverage ratio for the preceding four fiscal quarter period.
At December 31, 2018, we had $2.74 billion of outstanding borrowings under the revolving loan facility and no borrowings at March 31, 2018.
See Note 13 of the notes to our condensed consolidated financial statements for more information regarding our Credit Facility.
In June 2017, in connection with the settlement of $111.3 million of our convertible debt, we amended our credit agreement to (i) extend the time period during which we are permitted to repurchase, redeem or exchange our 2007 Junior Convertible Debt and (ii) amend the maximum total leverage ratio covenant to extend the time period for permitted refinancings or exchanges of the 2007 Junior Convertible Debt that may be excluded from the calculation of the ratio, subject to certain conditions.
In February 2017, we amended our Credit Facility to, among other things, increase certain covenant compliance ratios.
The February 2017 amendment included a new collateral agreement that secures our borrowings with all assets of our guarantor subsidiaries with the exception of real property.
Proceeds of loans made under our Credit Facility may be used for working capital and general corporate purposes.
The enactment of the Act in December 2017 imposed a tax on all previously untaxed earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries of U.S. corporations.
Due to this change, the jurisdiction in which our cash is at any given point in time, no longer has a significant impact on our liquidity.
Future distributions of non-U.S. assets to the U.S. will no longer be subject to U.S. federal taxation.
As a result of the Act, as of March 31, 2018, we recognized a one-time provisional transition tax expense of $644.7 million on accumulated unrepatriated foreign earnings.
As we concluded with our measurement period in accordance with SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin ("SAB") 118, we finalized our calculations of the transition tax expense during the period ended December 31, 2018.
As such, we increased our March 31, 2018 provisional amount by $13.1 million to $657.8 million, of which we expect cash payments of approximately $293.1 million after offsets by the utilization of various tax attribute carryforwards in the United States.
This tax is to be paid over a period of eight years, with 8% of the transition tax paid each year for fiscal 2019 through fiscal 2023, and 15%, 20%, and 25%, respectively, to be paid during fiscal 2024, 2025 and 2026.
We enter into derivative transactions from time to time in an attempt to reduce our exposure to currency rate fluctuations.
Although none of the countries in which we conduct significant foreign operations has had a highly inflationary economy in the last five years, there is no assurance that inflation rates or fluctuations in foreign currency rates in countries where we conduct operations will not adversely affect our operating results in the future.
At December 31, 2018, we had no foreign currency forward contracts outstanding.
There were no repurchases of common stock during the nine months ended December 31, 2018.
As of December 31, 2018, we held approximately 16.3 million shares as treasury shares.
On October 28, 2002, we announced that our Board of Directors had approved and instituted a quarterly cash dividend on our common stock.
A quarterly dividend of $0.3645 per share was paid on December 5, 2018 in the aggregate amount of $86.3 million.
A quarterly dividend of $0.3650 per share was declared on February 5, 2019 and will be paid on March 7, 2019 to stockholders of record as of February 21, 2019.
We expect the aggregate cash dividend for March 2019 to be approximately $86.8 million.
Our Board is free to change our dividend practices at any time and to increase or decrease the dividend paid, or
not to pay a dividend on our common stock on the basis of our results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements and future prospects, and other factors deemed relevant by our Board.
Our current intent is to provide for ongoing quarterly cash dividends depending upon market conditions, our results of operations, and potential changes in tax laws.
We believe that our existing sources of liquidity combined with cash generated from operations and borrowings under our Credit Facility will be sufficient to meet our currently anticipated cash requirements for at least the next 12 months.
However, the semiconductor industry is capital intensive.
In order to remain competitive, we must constantly evaluate the need to make significant investments in capital equipment for both production and research and development.
We may increase our borrowings under our Credit Facility or seek additional equity or debt financing from time to time to maintain or expand our wafer fabrication and product assembly and test facilities, for cash dividends, for share repurchases or for acquisitions or other purposes.
The timing and amount of any such financing requirements will depend on a number of factors, including our level of dividend payments, changes in tax laws and regulations regarding the repatriation of offshore cash (including the impact of the Act), demand for our products, changes in industry conditions, product mix, competitive factors and our ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates.
There can be no assurance that such financing will be available on acceptable terms, and any additional equity financing would result in incremental ownership dilution to our existing stockholders.
Contractual Obligations
The expected timing of payment of the obligations discussed above is estimated based on current information.
Timing of payments and actual amounts paid may be different depending on the time of receipt of goods or services or changes to agreed-upon amounts for some obligations.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements (Including Guarantees)
As of December 31, 2018, we are not involved in any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S-K.
In the ordinary course of business, we may provide standby letters of credit or other guarantee instruments to certain parties as required for certain transactions initiated by us or our subsidiaries.
We have not recorded any liability in connection with these guarantee arrangements.
Based on historical experience and information currently available, we believe we will not be required to make any payments under these guarantee arrangements.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
We did not repurchase any shares of our common stock in the three months ended December 31, 2018.
Item 6.Exhibits
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
