Item 2.
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Note Regarding Forward-looking Statements

This report, including "Part I – Item 2 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and "Part II - Item 1A Risk Factors" contains certain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including statements regarding our strategy, financial performance and revenue sources.
We use words such as "anticipate," "believe," "plan," "expect," "future," "continue," "intend" and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements.
Our actual results could differ materially from the results anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors including those set forth under "Risk Factors," beginning at page 53 and elsewhere in this Form 10-Q.
Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements.
You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.
We disclaim any obligation to update information contained in any forward-looking statement.
These forward-looking statements include, without limitation, statements regarding the following:

•The effects that uncertain global economic conditions and fluctuations in the global credit and equity markets may have on our financial condition and results of operations;

•The effects and amount of competitive pricing pressure on our product lines and modest pricing declines in certain of our more mature proprietary product lines;

•Our ability to moderate future average selling price declines;

•The effect of product mix, capacity utilization, yields, fixed cost absorption, competition and economic conditions on gross margin;

•The amount of, and changes in, demand for our products and those of our customers;

•The impact of trade restrictions and changes in tariffs, including those impacting China;

•Our expectation that in the future we will acquire additional businesses that we believe will complement our existing businesses;

•Our expectation that in the future we will enter into joint development agreements or other business or strategic relationships with other companies;


•The effect that distributor and customer inventory holding patterns will have on us;

•Our belief that customers recognize our products and brand name and use distributors as an effective supply channel;

•Anticipating increased customer requirements to meet voluntary criteria related to the reduction or elimination of substances in our products;

•Our belief that our direct sales personnel combined with our distributors provide an effective means of reaching our customer base;

•The accuracy of our estimates of the useful life and values of our property, assets and other liabilities;

•Our ability to increase the proprietary portion of our analog, interface, mixed signal and timing product lines and the effect of such an increase;

•Our belief that our processes afford us both cost-effective designs in existing and derivative products and greater functionality in new product designs;

•The impact of any supply disruption we may experience;

•Our ability to effectively utilize our facilities at appropriate capacity levels and anticipated costs;

•That we adjust capacity utilization to respond to actual and anticipated business and industry-related conditions; 

•That manufacturing costs will be reduced by transition to advanced process technologies;

•Our ability to maintain manufacturing yields;

•Continuing our investments in new and enhanced products;

•The cost effectiveness of using our own assembly and test operations;

•Our anticipated level of capital expenditures;

•Continuation and amount of quarterly cash dividends;

•The sufficiency of our existing sources of liquidity to finance anticipated capital expenditures and otherwise meet our anticipated cash requirements, and the effects that our contractual obligations are expected to have on them;

•The impact of seasonality on our business;

•Our belief that our IT system compromise has not had a material adverse effect on our business or resulted in any material damage to us;

•Our expectation that we will continue to be the target of attacks on our data, attempts to breach our security and attempts to introduce malicious software into our IT systems;

•The accuracy of our estimates used in valuing employee equity awards;

•That the resolution of legal actions will not have a material effect on our business, and the accuracy of our assessment of the probability of loss and range of potential loss;

•The recoverability of our deferred tax assets;

•The adequacy of our tax reserves to offset any potential tax liabilities, having the appropriate support for our income tax positions and the accuracy of our estimated tax rate; 

•Our belief that the expiration of any tax holidays will not have a material impact on our overall tax expense or effective tax rate;

•Our belief that the estimates used in preparing our condensed consolidated financial statements are reasonable;

•Our actions to vigorously and aggressively defend and protect our intellectual property on a worldwide basis;

•Our ability to obtain patents and intellectual property licenses and minimize the effects of litigation;

•The level of risk we are exposed to for product liability claims or indemnification claims;


•The effect of fluctuations in currency rates;

•That we could determine to repatriate some of our offshore earnings in future periods to fund stockholder dividends, share repurchases, acquisitions or other corporate activities;

•Our intention to satisfy the lesser of the principal amount or the conversion value of our debentures in cash;

•Our intention to invest substantially all of our foreign subsidiary earnings, as well as our capital in our foreign subsidiaries, indefinitely outside of the U.S. in those jurisdictions in which we would incur significant, additional costs upon repatriation of such amounts.
•Changes to the taxation of undistributed foreign earnings could change our future intentions regarding reinvestment of such earnings;

•Our belief that the effect the new tax laws will have on low-taxed income of foreign subsidiaries will have the most significant, adverse impact;

•Our intent to maintain a high-quality investment portfolio that preserves principal, meets liquidity needs, avoids inappropriate concentrations and delivers an appropriate yield; and

•Our ability to collect accounts receivable.
Our actual results could differ materially from the results anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors including those set forth in "Item 1A – Risk Factors," and elsewhere in this Form 10-Q.
Although we believe that the expectations reflected in our forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements.
You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.
We disclaim any obligation to update the information contained in any forward-looking statement.
Introduction

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes that appear elsewhere in this document.
Acquisition of Microsemi

On May 29, 2018, we completed our acquisition of Microsemi Corporation, a publicly traded company headquartered in Aliso Viejo, California.
We paid an aggregate of approximately $8.19 billion in cash to the stockholders of Microsemi.
The total consideration transferred in the acquisition, including approximately $53.9 million of non-cash consideration for the exchange of certain share-based payment awards of Microsemi for stock awards of Microchip, was approximately $8.24 billion.
In addition to the consideration transferred, we recognized in our consolidated financial statements $3.23 billion in liabilities of Microsemi consisting of debt, taxes payable and deferred, pension obligations, restructuring, and contingent and other liabilities of which $2.06 billion of existing debt was paid off.
We financed the purchase price using approximately $8.10 billion of borrowings consisting of $3.10 billion of loans under our revolving line of credit (the "Revolving Credit Facility"), $3.00 billion of term loans ("Term Loan Facility") provided under our amended and restated Credit Agreement, and $2.00 billion in newly issued senior secured notes.
We incurred $22.0 million in costs related to the acquisition.
As a result of the acquisition, Microsemi became a wholly owned subsidiary of Microchip.
Microsemi offers a comprehensive portfolio of semiconductor and system solutions for aerospace and defense, communications, data center and industrial markets.
Our primary reason for this acquisition was to expand our range of solutions, products and capabilities by extending our served available market.
For further details, see the discussion in Note 3 of our condensed consolidated financial statements included in this report.
Material Weaknesses in Internal Controls

As discussed in Item 4 “Controls and Procedures” in this report on Form 10-Q, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019, we identified a material weakness in our internal controls related to accounting for income taxes and we also identified a material weakness in our internal controls related to IT system access.
Internal controls related to such matters are important to accurately reflect our financial position and results of operations in our financial reports.
We are in the process of remediating the material weaknesses, but our efforts may not be successful.
If we are unable to remediate the material weaknesses in an appropriate and timely manner, or if we identify additional control deficiencies that individually or together constitute significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, our ability to accurately record, process, and report financial information and consequently, our ability to prepare financial statements within required time periods, could be adversely affected.
Failure to maintain effective internal controls could result in violations of applicable securities laws, stock exchange listing requirements, and the covenants under our debt agreements, subject us to litigation and investigations, negatively affect investor confidence in our financial statements, and adversely impact our stock price and ability to access capital markets.
For additional information, refer to Item 4 "Controls and Procedures."
IT System Compromise

As reported in our March 31, 2019 Form 10-K, we learned of an ongoing compromise of our computer networks by what is believed to be sophisticated hackers.
We engaged experienced legal counsel and a leading forensic investigatory firm with experience in such matters.
We have taken steps to identify malicious activity on our network including a compromise of our network and, in May 2019, we began implementing a containment plan.
We are continuing to evaluate the effectiveness of the containment plan and the amount and content of the information that was compromised and to implement additional remedial actions.
At this time, we do not believe that this IT system compromise has had a material adverse effect on our business or resulted in any material damage to us and we do not currently believe that such matters will have a material adverse effect on our financial position, cash flows or results of operations.
However, until we complete our evaluation of the amount and type of data that was compromised, there can be no assurance as to what the impact of this IT system compromise will be.
Strategy

Our goal is to be a worldwide leader in providing specialized semiconductor products for a wide variety of embedded control applications.
Our strategic focus is on embedded control solutions, including general purpose and specialized 8-bit, 16-bit, and 32-bit microcontrollers, 32-bit microprocessors, field-programmable gate array (FPGA) products, a broad spectrum of high-performance linear, mixed-signal, power management, thermal management, discrete diodes and MOSFETS, radio frequency (RF), timing, timing systems, safety, security, wired connectivity and wireless connectivity devices, as well as Serial Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory (EEPROM), Serial Flash memories, Parallel Flash memories, Serial Electrically Erasable Random Access Memory (EERAM) and Serial Static Random Access Memory (SRAM).
We also license Flash-IP solutions that are incorporated in a broad range of products.
We provide highly cost-effective embedded control solutions that also offer the advantages of small size, high performance, extreme low power usage, wide voltage range operation, mixed signal integration and ease of development, thus enabling timely and cost-effective integration of our solutions by our customers in their end products.
We license our SuperFlash technology and other technologies to wafer 

foundries, integrated device manufacturers and design partners throughout the world for use in the manufacture of advanced microcontroller products, gate array, radio frequency (RF) and analog products that require embedded non-volatile memory.
We sell our products to a broad base of domestic and international customers across a variety of industries.
The principal markets that we serve include consumer, automotive, industrial, aerospace, office communication, and computing.
Our business is subject to fluctuations based on economic conditions within these markets.
Our manufacturing operations include wafer fabrication, wafer probe and assembly and test.
The ownership of a substantial portion of our manufacturing resources is an important component of our business strategy, enabling us to maintain a high level of manufacturing control resulting in us being one of the lowest cost producers in the embedded control industry.
By owning wafer fabrication facilities and assembly and test operations, and by employing statistical process control techniques, we have been able to achieve and maintain high production yields.
Direct control over manufacturing resources allows us to shorten our design and production cycles.
This control also allows us to capture a portion of the wafer manufacturing and the assembly and test profit margin.
We do outsource a significant portion of our manufacturing requirements to third parties.
Our acquisition of Microsemi significantly increased the amount of our outsourced manufacturing requirements.
We employ proprietary design and manufacturing processes in developing our embedded control products.
We believe our processes afford us both cost-effective designs in existing and derivative products and greater functionality in new product designs.
While many of our competitors develop and optimize separate processes for their logic and memory product lines, we use a common process technology for both microcontroller and non-volatile memory products.
This allows us to more fully leverage our process research and development costs and to deliver new products to market more rapidly.
Our engineers utilize advanced computer-aided design tools and software to perform circuit design, simulation and layout, and our in-house photomask and wafer fabrication facilities enable us to rapidly verify design techniques by processing test wafers quickly and efficiently.
We are committed to continuing our investment in new and enhanced products, including development systems, and in our design and manufacturing process technologies.
We believe these investments are significant factors in maintaining our competitive position.
Our current research and development activities focus on the design of new microcontrollers, digital signal controllers, memory, analog and mixed-signal products, FPGAs, timing systems, Flash-IP, development systems, software and application-specific software libraries.
We are also developing new design and process technologies to achieve further cost reductions and performance improvements in our products.
See "Our operating results are impacted by both seasonality and the wide fluctuation of supply and demand in the semiconductor industry," on page 57 for discussion of the impact of seasonality on our business.
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

General

Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. We review the accounting policies we use in reporting our financial results on a regular basis.
The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosure of contingent liabilities.
On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, business combinations, share-based compensation, inventories, income taxes, senior and junior 

subordinated convertible debt and contingencies.
We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Our results may differ from these estimates due to actual outcomes being different from those on which we based our assumptions.
We review these estimates and judgments on an ongoing basis.
We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our condensed consolidated financial statements.
Revenue Recognition


Sales to our distributors are governed by a distributor agreement, a purchase order, and an order acknowledgment.
Sales to distributors do not meet the definition of a contract, as defined by Accounting Standard Codification Topic 606 (ASC 606), until the distributor has sent in a purchase order, we have acknowledged the order, we have deemed the collectability of the consideration to be probable, and legally enforceable rights and obligations have been created; this generally occurs 30 days prior to the estimated ship date.
As is customary in the semiconductor industry, we offer price concessions and stock rotation rights to many of our distributors.
As these are forms of variable consideration, we estimate the amount of consideration to which we will be entitled using recent historical data and applying the expected value method.
Usually, there is only a single performance obligation in the contract, and therefore the entire transaction price is allocated to the single performance obligation.
After the transaction price has been allocated, we recognize revenue when the performance obligation is satisfied.
Substantially all of the revenue generated from contracts with distributors is recognized at the time risk and title of the inventory transfers to the distributor.
Sales to our direct customers are generally governed by a purchase order and an order acknowledgment.
Sales to direct customers usually do not meet the definition of a contract, as defined by ASC 606, until shipment of the product occurs.
Generally, the transaction price associated with contracts with direct customers is set at the standalone selling price and is not variable.
Usually, there is only a single performance obligation in the contract, and therefore the entire transaction price is allocated to the single performance obligation.
After the transaction price has been allocated, we recognize revenue when the performance obligation is satisfied.
Substantially all of the revenue generated from contracts with direct customers is recognized at the time risk and title of the inventory transfers to the customer.
Revenue generated from our licensees is governed by licensing agreements.
Our primary performance obligation related to these agreements is to provide the licensee the right to use the intellectual property.
The final transaction price is determined by multiplying the usage of the license by the royalty, which is fixed in the licensing agreement.
Revenue is recognized as usage of the license occurs.
Business Combinations


Share-based Compensation

We measure at fair value and recognize compensation expense for all share-based payment awards, including grants of employee stock options, restricted stock units (RSUs) and employee stock purchase rights, to be recognized in our financial statements based on their respective grant date fair values.
We utilize RSUs as our primary equity incentive compensation instrument for employees.
Share-based compensation cost is measured on the grant date based on the fair market value of our common stock discounted for expected future dividends and is recognized as expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service periods.
Total share-based compensation expense recognized during the six months ended September 30, 2019 was $86.0 million, of which $75.9 million was reflected in operating expenses and $10.1 million was reflected in cost of sales.
Total share-based compensation included in our inventory balance was $14.5 million at September 30, 2019.
If there are any modifications or cancellations of the underlying unvested securities, we may be required to accelerate, increase or cancel any remaining unearned share-based compensation expense.
Future share-based compensation expense and unearned share-based compensation will increase to the extent that we grant additional equity awards to employees or we assume unvested equity awards in connection with acquisitions.
Inventories

Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or net realizable value using the first-in, first-out method.
We write down our inventory for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory in an amount equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated net realizable value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions.
If actual market conditions are less favorable than those we projected, additional inventory write-downs may be required.
Inventory impairment charges establish a new cost basis for inventory and charges are not subsequently reversed to income even if circumstances later suggest that increased carrying amounts are recoverable.
In estimating our inventory obsolescence, we primarily evaluate estimates of demand over a 12-month period and record impairment charges for inventory on hand in excess of the estimated 12-month demand.
Estimates for projected 12-month demand are generally based on the average shipments of the prior three-month period, which are then annualized to adjust for any potential seasonality in our business.
The estimated 12-month demand is compared to our most recently developed sales forecast to further reconcile the 12-month demand estimate.
Management reviews and adjusts the estimates as appropriate based on specific situations.
For example, demand can be adjusted up for new products for which historic sales are not representative of future demand.
Alternatively, demand can be adjusted down to the extent any existing products are being replaced or discontinued.
In periods where our production levels are substantially below our normal operating capacity, the reduced production levels of our manufacturing facilities are charged directly to cost of sales.
As a result of production being below normal operating levels in our wafer fabrication facilities, approximately $16.2 million was charged to cost of sales in the six months ended September 30, 2019.
During the six months ended September 30, 2018, we operated at below normal capacity levels resulting in an unabsorbed capacity charge of $5.0 million.
Income Taxes

As part of the process of preparing our condensed consolidated financial statements, we are required to estimate our income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate.
This process involves estimating our actual current tax exposure together with assessing temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of items for tax and accounting purposes.
These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included within our consolidated balance sheets.
We must then assess the likelihood that our deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income within the relevant jurisdiction and to the extent we believe that recovery is not likely, we must establish a valuation allowance.
We provided valuation allowances for certain of our deferred tax assets, where it is more likely than not that some portion, or all of such assets, will not be realized.
Various taxing authorities in the U.S. and other countries in which we do business scrutinize the tax structures employed by businesses.
Companies of our size and complexity are regularly audited by the taxing authorities in the jurisdictions in which they conduct significant operations.
We are currently being audited by the tax authorities in the United States and in various foreign jurisdictions.
At this time, we do not know what the outcome of these audits will be.
We record benefits for uncertain tax positions based on an assessment of whether it is more likely than not that the tax positions will be sustained based on their technical merits under currently enacted law.
If this threshold is not met, no tax benefit of the uncertain tax position is recognized.
If the threshold is met, we recognize the largest amount of the tax benefit that is more than 50% likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement.
The accounting model as defined in Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 740 related to the valuation of uncertain tax positions requires us to presume that the tax position will be examined by the relevant taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information and that each tax position will be evaluated without consideration of the possibility of offset or aggregation with other positions.
The recognition requirement for the liability exists even if we believe the possibility of examination by a taxing authority or discovery of the related risk matters is remote or where we have a long history of the taxing authority not performing an exam or overlooking an issue.
We will record an adjustment to a previously recorded position if new information or facts related to the position are identified in a subsequent period.
All adjustments to the positions are recorded through the income statement.
Generally, adjustments will be recorded in periods subsequent to the initial recognition if the taxing authority has completed an audit of the period that results in the position being effectively settled or if the statute of limitation expires.
Due to the inherent uncertainty in the estimation process and in consideration of the criteria of the accounting model, amounts recognized in the financial statements in periods subsequent to the initial recognition may significantly differ from the estimated exposure of the position under the accounting model.
Senior and Junior Subordinated Convertible Debt

We separately account for the liability and equity components of our senior and junior subordinated convertible debt in a manner that reflects our nonconvertible debt (unsecured debt) borrowing rate when interest cost is recognized.
This results in a bifurcation of a component of the debt, classification of that component in equity and the accretion of the resulting discount on the debt to be recognized as part of interest expense in our consolidated statements of income.
Lastly, we include the dilutive effect of the shares of our common stock issuable upon conversion of the outstanding senior and junior subordinated convertible debt in our diluted income per share calculation regardless of whether the market price triggers or other contingent conversion features have been met.
We apply the treasury stock method as we have the intent and have adopted an accounting policy to settle the principal amount of the senior and junior subordinated convertible debentures in cash.
This method results in incremental dilutive shares when the average fair value of our common stock for a reporting period exceeds the conversion prices per share and adjusts as dividends are recorded in the future.
Contingencies

In the ordinary course of our business, we are exposed to various liabilities as a result of contracts, product liability, customer claims, governmental investigations and other matters.
Additionally, we are involved in a limited number of legal actions, both as plaintiff and defendant.
Consequently, we could incur uninsured liability in any of those actions.
We also periodically receive notifications from various third parties alleging infringement of patents or other intellectual property rights, or from customers requesting reimbursement for various costs.
With respect to pending legal actions to which we are a party and other claims, although the outcomes are generally not determinable, we believe that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, cash flows or results of operations.
Litigation, governmental investigations and disputes relating to the semiconductor industry are not uncommon, and we are, from time to time, subject to such litigation, governmental investigations and disputes.
As a result, no assurances can be given with respect to the extent or outcome of any such litigation, governmental investigations or disputes in the future.
We accrue for claims and contingencies when losses become probable and reasonably estimable.
As of the end of each applicable reporting period, we review each of our matters and, where it is probable that a liability has been or will be incurred, we accrue for all probable and reasonably estimable losses.
Where we can reasonably estimate a range of losses we may incur regarding such a matter, we record an accrual for the amount within the range that constitutes our best estimate.
If we can reasonably estimate a range but no amount within the range appears to be a better estimate than any other, we use the amount that is the low end of such range.
Contingencies of an acquired company that exist as of the date of the acquisition are measured at fair value if determinable, which generally is based on a probability weighted model.
If fair value is not determinable, contingencies of an acquired company are recognized when they become probable and reasonably estimable.
Results of Operations



Net Sales

We operate in two industry segments and engage primarily in the design, development, manufacture and sale of semiconductor products as well as the licensing of our SuperFlash and other technologies.
We sell our products to distributors and original equipment manufacturers, referred to as OEMs, in a broad range of markets, perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers and generally require no collateral.
In certain circumstances, a customer's financial condition may require collateral, and, in such cases, the collateral would be typically provided by letters of credit.
The decrease in net sales in the three months ended September 30, 2019 compared to the three months ended September 30, 2018 was primarily due to adverse demand fluctuations in the markets we serve, which were negatively impacted by general economic conditions, trade restrictions and adverse changes in tariffs.
The increase in net sales in the six months ended September 30, 2019 compared to the six months ended September 30, 2018 was due primarily to our acquisition of Microsemi as the September 30, 2019 results included two full quarters of Microsemi net sales compared to four months of Microsemi net sales in the six months ended September 30, 2018.
The timing of the acquisition closing accounted for an increase of approximately 8% in our net sales.
This increase was partially offset by adverse demand fluctuations in the markets we serve, which were negatively impacted by general economic conditions, trade restrictions and adverse changes in tariffs.
Excluding the impact of the timing of the acquisition of Microsemi, these adverse conditions negatively affected net sales by approximately 7% compared to the same period in the prior year.
We sell a large number of products to a large and diverse customer base and, excluding the impact of our Microsemi acquisition, there was not any product, customer or market that accounted for a material portion of the change.
The overall average selling price of our products is affected by pricing declines over the life of individual products; however, variations in our product and geographic mix of sales can cause wider fluctuations in our overall average selling price in any given period.
The overall average selling price of our products increased significantly during the three and six months ended September 30, 2019 compared to the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 due to our acquisition of Microsemi, whose average selling price is higher than the average selling price of our historical business due to the types of products they offer and the types of customers and markets they serve.
•our acquisition of Microsemi, which closed on May 29, 2018;

•global economic conditions in the markets we serve;

•trade restrictions and adverse changes in tariffs;

•semiconductor industry conditions;

•our new product offerings that have increased our served available market;

•customers' increasing needs for the flexibility offered by our programmable solutions;

•inventory holding patterns of our customers, including distributors; and

•increasing semiconductor content in our customers' products.
Microcontrollers

Our microcontroller product line represents the largest component of our total net sales.
Microcontrollers and associated application development systems accounted for approximately 52.2% and 52.9% of our net sales for the three and six months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, compared to approximately 54.3% and 56.7% of our net sales for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, respectively.
The decreases are due to adverse demand fluctuations in the markets we serve and our acquisition of Microsemi, whose microcontroller product line accounted for a relatively low percentage of its total net sales.
Net sales of our microcontroller products decreased 10.4% and 6.3% in the three and six months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, compared to the three and six months ended September 30, 2018.
These sales decreases were due primarily to adverse demand fluctuations in the markets we serve, partially offset by our acquisition of Microsemi.
Historically, average selling prices in the semiconductor industry decrease over the life of any particular product.
The overall average selling prices of our microcontroller products have remained relatively constant over time due to the proprietary nature of these products.
We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, moderate pricing pressure in certain microcontroller product lines, primarily due to competitive conditions.
We have in the past been able to, and expect in the future to be able to, moderate average selling price declines in our microcontroller product lines by introducing new products with more features and higher prices.
We may be unable to maintain average selling prices for our microcontroller products as a result of increased pricing pressure in the future, which would adversely affect our operating results.
The average selling price of our microcontroller products is affected by these trends; however, variations in our product and geographic mix of sales can cause wider fluctuations in the average selling price of our microcontroller products in any given period.
Analog, Interface, Mixed Signal and Timing Products

Sales of our analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products accounted for approximately 29.4% and 29.3% of our net sales for the three and six months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, compared to approximately 29.3% and 28.4% of our net sales for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, respectively.
The increases are due primarily to our acquisition of Microsemi, whose analog, interface, mixed signal and timing product line accounted for a relatively high percentage of its total net sales.
Net sales of our analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products decreased 6.0% for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and increased 3.9% in the six months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, compared to the three and six months ended September 30, 2018.
The decrease for the three months ended September 30, 2019 compared to the three months ended September 30, 2018 is due primarily to adverse demand conditions in the markets we serve.
The increase for the six months ended September 30, 2019 compared to the six months ended September 30, 2018 is due primarily to our acquisition of Microsemi, partially offset by adverse demand conditions in the markets we serve.
Analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products can be proprietary or non-proprietary in nature.
Currently, we consider a majority of our analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products to be proprietary in nature, where prices are relatively stable, similar to the pricing stability experienced in our microcontroller products.
The non-proprietary portion of our analog, interface, mixed signal and timing business will experience price fluctuations, driven primarily by the current supply and demand for those products.
We may be unable to maintain the average selling prices of our analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products as a result of increased pricing pressure in the future, which would adversely affect our operating results.
We anticipate the proprietary portion of our analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products will increase over time.
Field-Programmable Gate Array (FPGA) Products

Our FPGA product line was primarily acquired as part of our acquisition of Microsemi on May 29, 2018.
Sales of our FPGA products accounted for approximately 7.0% and 6.9% of our net sales for the three and six months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, compared to approximately 4.9% and 4.1% of our net sales for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, respectively.
These increases are due primarily to our acquisition of Microsemi.
Net sales of our FPGA products increased 31.6% and 69.5% in the three and six months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, compared to the three and six months ended September 30, 2018.
These sales increases were due primarily to customer demand conditions and our acquisition of Microsemi.
FPGA product pricing has historically been relatively stable because they are proprietary products with significant design in complexity and they are frequently designed into long-lived end applications.
Licensing, Memory and Other

Licensing, memory and other (LMO) includes royalties associated with licenses for the use of our SuperFlash and other technologies, sales of our intellectual property, fees for engineering services, memory products, manufacturing services (wafer foundry and assembly and test subcontracting), legacy application specific integrated circuits, and products for aerospace applications.
Revenue from these services and products accounted for approximately 11.4% and 10.9% of our net sales for the three and six months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, compared to approximately 11.5% and 10.8% of our net sales for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, respectively.
Net sales related to these services and products decreased 6.7% in the three months ended September 30, 2019 and increased 2.0% in the six months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, compared to the three and six months ended September 30, 2018.
LMO net sales can fluctuate over time based on general economic and semiconductor industry conditions as well as changes in demand for our licenses, engineering services, memory products, and manufacturing services (wafer foundry and assembly and test subcontracting).
Distribution

Distributors accounted for approximately 49.8% and 50.0% of our net sales in the three and six months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, and approximately 49.7% and 51.3% of our net sales in the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, respectively.
With the exception of Arrow Electronics, our largest distributor, which represented 11% of our net sales in the three and six months ended September 30, 2019, no other distributor or end customer accounted for more than 10% of our net sales in the three and six months ended September 30, 2019.
In the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, no distributor or end customer accounted for more than 10% of our net sales.
Our distributors focus primarily on servicing the product requirements of a broad base of diverse customers.
We believe that distributors provide an effective means of reaching this broad and diverse customer base.
We believe that customers recognize Microchip for its products and brand name and use distributors as an effective supply channel.
Generally, we do not have long-term agreements with our distributors and we, or our distributors, may terminate our relationships with each other with little or no advance notice.
The loss of, or the disruption in the operations of, one or more of our distributors could reduce our future net sales in a given quarter and could result in an increase in inventory returns.
At September 30, 2019, our distributors maintained 30 days of inventory of our products compared to 35 days at March 31, 2019.
Over the past ten fiscal years, the days of inventory maintained by our distributors have fluctuated between approximately 27 days and 47 days.
Inventory holding patterns at our distributors may have a material impact on our net sales.
Sales by Geography



Americas sales include sales to customers in the U.S., Canada, Central America and South America.
Sales to foreign customers accounted for approximately 79% of our total net sales in each of the three and six months ended September 30, 2019 compared to approximately 80% and 82% of our total net sales in each of the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, respectively.
Substantially all of our foreign sales are U.S. dollar denominated.
Sales to customers in Asia have generally increased over time due to many of our customers transitioning their manufacturing operations to Asia and growth in demand from the emerging Asian market; however, sales to Asia in dollars and as a percentage of our total net sales decreased in the three and six months ended September 30, 2019 compared to the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 due to our acquisition of Microsemi, whose sales to customers in Asia accounted for a smaller portion of their total net sales than Microchip's historical business, and to a lesser extent, trade restrictions and adverse changes in tariffs.
Sales to customers in the Americas increased as a percentage of total sales in the three and six months ended September 30, 2019 compared to the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 due to our acquisition of Microsemi, which had more concentration in the aerospace and defense industry in the Americas.
Our sales force in the Americas and Europe supports a significant portion of the design activity for products which are ultimately shipped to Asia.
Gross Profit

Our gross profit in the three months ended September 30, 2019 was $827.5 million, or 61.9% of net sales, compared to $689.3 million, or 48.1% of net sales, in the three months ended September 30, 2018.
Our gross profit in the six months ended September 30, 2019 was $1,642.7 million, or 61.7% of net sales, compared to $1,331.3 million, or 50.3% of net sales, in the six months ended September 30, 2018.
•unabsorbed capacity charges of $5.0 million due to operating at below normal capacity in the three and six months ended September 30, 2018; and

•fluctuations in the product mix of microcontrollers, analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products, FPGA products, memory products and technology licensing.
•continual cost reductions in wafer fabrication and assembly and test manufacturing, such as new manufacturing technologies and more efficient manufacturing techniques; and

•economic market conditions and product mix.
We adjust our wafer fabrication and assembly and test capacity utilization as required to respond to actual and anticipated business and industry-related conditions.
When production levels are below normal capacity, which we measure as a percentage of the capacity of the installed equipment, we charge cost of sales for the unabsorbed capacity.
During the three and six months ended September 30, 2019, we operated at below normal capacity levels resulting in an unabsorbed capacity charge of $8.9 million and $16.2 million, respectively.
During three and six months ended September 30, 2018, we operated at below normal capacity levels resulting in an unabsorbed capacity charge of $5.0 million.
The process technologies utilized in our wafer fabrication facilities impact our gross margins.
Our wafer fabrication facility located in Tempe, Arizona (Fab 2) currently utilizes various manufacturing process technologies, but predominantly utilizes our 0.5 micron to 1.0 micron processes.
Our wafer fabrication facility located in Gresham, Oregon (Fab 4) 

predominantly utilizes our 0.13 micron to 0.5 micron processes.
We continue to transition products to more advanced process technologies to reduce future manufacturing costs.
All of our production in Fab 2 and Fab 4 has been on 8-inch wafers during the periods covered by this report.
We consider normal capacity at Fab 2 and Fab 4 to be 90% to 95%.
Our wafer fabrication facility in Colorado Springs, Colorado (Fab 5) currently utilizes processes between 0.25 micron and 1.0 micron that run on 6-inch wafers.
We consider normal capacity at Fab 5 to be 70% to 75%.
Our overall inventory levels were $734.2 million at September 30, 2019, compared to $711.7 million at March 31, 2019.
We maintained 131 days of inventory on our balance sheet at September 30, 2019 compared to 128 days of inventory at March 31, 2019.
We expect our days of inventory levels in the December 2019 quarter to be flat to up 13 days compared to the September 2019 levels.
We believe our existing level of inventory will allow us to maintain competitive lead times and provide strong delivery performance to our customers.
We anticipate that our gross margins will fluctuate over time, driven primarily by capacity utilization levels, the overall product mix of microcontroller, analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products, FPGA products, memory products and technology licensing revenue and the percentage of net sales of each of these products in a particular quarter, as well as manufacturing yields, fixed cost absorption, and competitive and economic conditions in the markets we serve.
We operate assembly and test facilities in Thailand, the Philippines, and other locations throughout the world.
Approximately 45% of our assembly requirements were performed in our internal assembly facilities in each of the three and six months ended September 30, 2019 compared to approximately 36% and 37% during the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, respectively.
Approximately 54% of our test requirements were performed in our internal test facilities during each of the three and six months ended September 30, 2019 compared to approximately 45% and 48% during the three and six months ended September 30, 2018.
The increases in the percentage of assembly and test operations that were performed internally in the three and six months ended September 30, 2019 compared to the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 are primarily due to our investments in assembly and test equipment, which increased our internal capacity capabilities, and also due to adverse demand fluctuations in the markets we serve, which reduced our demand for external assembly and test operations.
Third-party contractors located primarily in Asia perform the balance of our assembly and test operations.
The percentage of our assembly and test operations that are performed internally fluctuates over time based on supply and demand conditions in the semiconductor industry, our internal capacity capabilities and our acquisition activities.
We believe that the assembly and test operations performed at our internal facilities provide us with significant cost savings compared to contractor assembly and test costs, as well as increased control over these portions of the manufacturing process.
We plan to continue to transition certain outsourced assembly and test capacity to our internal facilities.
We rely on outside wafer foundries for a significant portion of our wafer fabrication requirements.
Approximately 61% of our net sales came from products that were produced at outside wafer foundries in each of the three and six months ended September 30, 2019 compared to approximately 58% and 54% during the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, respectively.
The increases were primarily due to our acquisition of Microsemi, which outsources the majority of its wafer fabrication requirements.
The timing of the acquisition, which occurred on May 29, 2018, also contributed to the increase as the September 30, 2019 results included a full six months of Microsemi activity compared to four months in the six months ended September 30, 2018.
Our use of third parties involves some reduction in our level of control over the portions of our business that we subcontract.
While we review the quality, delivery and cost performance of our third-party contractors, our future operating results could suffer if any third-party contractor is unable to maintain manufacturing yields, assembly and test yields and costs at approximately their current levels.
Selling, General and Administrative

Selling, general and administrative expenses for the three months ended September 30, 2019 were $172.3 million, or 12.9% of net sales, compared to $176.6 million, or 12.3% of net sales, for the three months ended September 30, 2018.
Selling, general and administrative expenses for the six months ended September 30, 2019 were $340.2 million, or 12.8% of net sales, compared to $340.7 million, or 12.9% of net sales, for the six months ended September 30, 2018.
Our goal is to continue to be more efficient with our operating expenses as our revenue increases.
Selling, general and administrative expenses include salary expenses related to field sales, marketing and administrative personnel, advertising and promotional expenditures and legal expenses.
Selling, general and administrative expenses also include costs related to our direct sales force, CEMs and ESEs who work in sales offices worldwide to stimulate demand by assisting customers in the selection and use of our products.
Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $4.3 million, or 2.4%, for the three months ended September 30, 2019 over the same period last year.
Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $0.5 million, or 0.1%, for the six months ended September 30, 2019 over the same period last year.
The primary reasons for the decreases in selling, general and administrative expenses were reductions in personnel and associated costs in connection with synergies realized from our Microsemi acquisition, partially offset by remediation costs related to the network compromise discussed in Item 4 of this Form 10-Q.
Selling, general and administrative expenses fluctuate over time, primarily due to revenue and operating expense investment levels.
Amortization of Acquired Intangible Assets

Amortization of acquired intangible assets for the three and six months ended September 30, 2019 was $248.2 million and $496.7 million, respectively, compared to $169.9 million and $303.6 million for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, respectively.
The primary reason for the increases in acquired intangible asset amortization was increased amortization from our acquisition of Microsemi partially offset by decreased amortization of intangible assets from our prior acquisitions.
Special Charges and Other, Net 

During the three and six months ended September 30, 2019, we incurred special charges and other, net of $3.6 million and $11.7 million, respectively, compared to $18.2 million and $58.3 million, respectively, for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018.
Our restructuring expenses were related to our most recent business acquisitions, and resulted from workforce, property and other operating expense rationalizations as well as combining product roadmaps and manufacturing operations.
Other Income (Expense)

Interest income in the three and six months ended September 30, 2019 was $1.0 million and $1.7 million, respectively, compared to $0.9 million and $6.6 million, respectively, for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018.
The primary reason for the decrease in interest income in the six months ended September 30, 2019 compared to the same period last year was lower invested cash balances.
During the quarter ended June 30, 2018, we used a substantial portion of our cash to help finance the purchase price of our acquisition of Microsemi.
Interest expense in the three and six months ended September 30, 2019 was $129.6 million and $262.2 million, respectively, compared to $138.6 million and $229.0 million, respectively, for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018.
The primary reason for the decrease in interest expense in the three months ended September 30, 2019 compared to the same period last year relates to the cumulative pay down of $1.73 billion of our debt.
The primary reason for the increase in interest expense in the six months ended September 30, 2019 compared to the same period last year relates to our additional borrowings to help finance our acquisition of Microsemi.
During the three and six months ended September 30, 2019, we recognized a loss of $0.1 million and $2.0 million, respectively, in connection with the amendment to our Revolving Credit Facility and the voluntary prepayment of a portion of the outstanding balance on our Term Loan Facility.
During the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, we recognized a loss of $4.1 million in connection with early pay downs of a portion of the outstanding balance on our Term Loan Facility and our Revolving Credit Facility.
Other loss, net in the three months ended September 30, 2019 was $1.4 million.
Other income, net in the six months ended September 30, 2019 was $1.3 million.
Other loss, net in the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 was $0.2 million and $10.0 million respectively.
The primary reason for these changes relates to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.
Provision for Income Taxes

We account for incomes taxes in accordance with ASC 740.
Our provision or benefit for income taxes is attributable to U.S. federal, state, and foreign income taxes.
Our effective tax rate used for interim periods is based on an estimated annual effective tax rate including the tax effect of items required to be recorded discretely in the interim periods in which those items occur.
Our effective tax rates for the six months ended September 30, 2019 and September 30, 2018 were not meaningful due to the amount of pre-tax income, and income tax benefits recorded during the period.
We are subject to taxation in many jurisdictions in which we have operations.
The effective tax rates that we pay in these jurisdictions vary widely, but they are generally lower than our combined U.S. federal and state effective tax rate.
Our domestic statutory tax rate for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 was approximately 22% and our domestic statutory tax rate for fiscal 2019 was approximately 22%.
Our non-U.S. blended statutory tax rates for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 and fiscal 2019 were much lower than this amount.
The difference in rates applicable in foreign jurisdictions results from a number of factors, including lower statutory rates, tax holidays, financing arrangements and other factors.
Our effective tax rate has been, and will continue to be impacted by the geographical dispersion of our earnings and losses.
Our foreign tax rate differential benefit primarily relates to our operations in Thailand, Malta and Ireland.
Our Thailand manufacturing operations are currently subject to numerous tax holidays granted to us based on our investment in property, plant and equipment in Thailand.
Our tax holiday periods in Thailand expire at various times in the future; however, we actively seek to obtain new tax holidays, otherwise we will be subject to tax at the statutory tax rate of 20%.
We do not expect the future expiration of any of our tax holiday periods in Thailand to have a material impact on our effective tax rate.
Our Microsemi operations in Malaysia are also subject to a tax holiday that effectively reduces Microsemi’s income tax rate in that jurisdiction.
Microsemi’s tax holiday in Malaysia was granted in 2009 and is effective through December 2019, subject to continued compliance with the tax holiday’s requirements.
We are actively seeking to obtain a new tax holiday in Malaysia, otherwise we will be subject to tax at the statutory tax rate of 24% following the expiration.
The remaining material components of foreign income taxed at a rate lower than the U.S. are earnings accrued in Ireland at a 12.5% statutory tax rate and earnings accrued in Malta at a 0% tax rate.
Various taxing authorities in the U.S. and other countries in which we do business are increasing their scrutiny of the tax structures employed by businesses.
Companies of our size and complexity are regularly audited by the taxing authorities in the jurisdictions in which they conduct significant operations.
For U.S. federal, and in general for U.S. state tax returns, our fiscal 2007 and later tax returns remain effectively open for examination by the taxing authorities.
We are currently being audited by the tax authorities in the United States and in various foreign jurisdictions.
At this time, we do not know what the outcome of these audits will be.
We record benefits for uncertain tax positions based on an assessment of whether it is more likely than not that the tax positions will be sustained based on their technical merits under currently enacted law.
If this threshold is not met, no tax benefit of the uncertain tax position is recognized.
If the threshold is met, we recognize the largest amount of the tax benefit that is more than 50% likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement.
Liquidity and Capital Resources

We had $405.1 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments at September 30, 2019, a decrease of $25.8 million from the March 31, 2019 balance.
Net cash provided by operating activities was $776.6 million in the six months ended September 30, 2019 compared to $789.9 million in the six months ended September 30, 2018.
Net cash used in investing activities was $54.7 million in the six months ended September 30, 2019 compared to $6.74 billion in the six months ended September 30, 2018.
During the six months ended September 30, 2019, net investing activities primarily related to capital purchases and investments in other assets.
In the six months ended September 30, 2018, investing cash flows included net cash and cash equivalents used to finance our acquisition of Microsemi of $7.85 billion net of $340.0 million of cash and cash equivalents acquired, offset by net cash inflows of $1.28 billion due to the sale of available-for-sale debt securities to fund our acquisition of Microsemi, and capital expenditures of $161.4 million.
Our level of capital expenditures varies from time to time as a result of actual and anticipated business conditions.
Capital expenditures in the six months ended September 30, 2019 were $41.6 million compared to $161.4 million in the six months ended September 30, 2018.
Capital expenditures were primarily for the expansion of production capacity, the addition of research and development equipment and new office buildings.
We currently intend to spend between $110 million and $130 million during the next twelve months to invest in equipment and facilities.
We believe that the capital expenditures anticipated to be incurred over the next twelve months will provide sufficient manufacturing capacity to support the growth of our production capabilities for our new products and technologies and to bring in-house more of the assembly and test operations that are currently outsourced.
We expect to finance our capital expenditures through our existing cash balances and cash flows from operations.
On May 29, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Microsemi Corporation, a publicly traded company headquartered in Aliso Viejo, California.
We paid an aggregate of approximately $8.19 billion in cash to the stockholders of Microsemi.
The total consideration transferred in the acquisition, including approximately $53.9 million of non-cash consideration for the exchange of certain share-based payment awards of Microsemi for stock awards for our common stock, was approximately $8.24 billion.
In addition to the consideration transferred, we recognized $3.23 billion in liabilities in our consolidated financial statements of Microsemi consisting of debt, taxes payable and deferred, pension obligations, restructuring, and contingent and other liabilities of which $2.06 billion of existing debt was paid off.
We financed the purchase price using approximately $8.10 billion of borrowings consisting of $3.10 billion of loans under our Revolving Credit Facility, $3.00 billion under the Term Loan Facility, and $2.00 billion in newly issued senior secured notes.
We incurred $22.0 million in acquisition costs related to the acquisition.
During the six months ended September 30, 2019, we voluntarily prepaid $188.0 million of principal under the Term Loan Facility.
During fiscal 2019, we voluntarily prepaid $1.09 billion of principal under the Term Loan Facility, of which $500.0 million was from funds borrowed under our Revolving Credit Facility.
At September 30, 2019, we had $1.72 billion of outstanding borrowings under our Term Loan Facility compared to $1.91 billion at March 31, 2019.
In September 2019, we amended our credit agreement dated May 29, 2018, to, among other things, reduce the margin added to the interest rate on revolving loans under the Credit Agreement.
The amendment also allows us the option to 

refinance the term loans or revolving loans up to a certain dollar limit and the option to factor receivables and certain related assets.
The amendment lowered the Revolving Credit Facility thereunder to $3.57 billion from $3.60 billion at June 30, 2019.
The Credit Agreement provides for a revolving loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of approximately $3.57 billion, with a $250.0 million foreign currency sublimit, a $50.0 million letter of credit sublimit and a $25.0 million swingline loan sublimit.
The Credit Agreement also provides for the Term Loan Facility.
The Revolving Credit Facility consists of $3.57 billion of revolving loan commitments (the "2023 Revolving Loans") that terminate on May 18, 2023 (the "2023 Maturity Date").
The 2023 Revolving Loans bear interest, at our option, at the base rate plus a spread of 0.00% to 0.75% or an adjusted LIBOR rate plus a spread of 1.00% to 1.75%, in each case, with such spread being determined based on the consolidated senior leverage ratio for the preceding four fiscal quarter period.
At September 30, 2019, we had $2.88 billion of outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility compared to $3.27 billion at March 31, 2019.
See Note 14 of the notes to our condensed consolidated financial statements for more information regarding our Credit Agreement.
The enactment of the Act in 2017 imposed a tax on all previously untaxed earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries of U.S. corporations.
Due to this change, the jurisdiction in which our cash is at any given point in time no longer has a significant impact on our liquidity.
Future distributions of a significant portion of our non-U.S. assets to the U.S. will no longer be subject to U.S. federal taxation.
We intend to invest substantially all of our foreign subsidiary earnings, as well as our capital in our foreign subsidiaries, indefinitely outside of the U.S. in those jurisdictions in which we would incur significant, additional costs upon repatriation of such amounts.
We enter into derivative transactions from time to time in an attempt to reduce our exposure to currency rate fluctuations.
Although none of the countries in which we conduct significant foreign operations has had a highly inflationary economy in the last five years, there is no assurance that inflation rates or fluctuations in foreign currency rates in countries where we conduct operations will not adversely affect our operating results in the future.
At September 30, 2019, we had foreign currency forward contracts outstanding with a notional amount of $250.0 million and $30.1 million to economically hedge certain balance sheet exposures related to the Malaysian ringgit and Taiwanese dollar, respectively.
There were no repurchases of common stock during the six months ended September 30, 2019.
As of September 30, 2019, we held approximately 14.5 million shares as treasury shares.
On October 28, 2002, we announced that our Board of Directors had approved and instituted a quarterly cash dividend on our common stock.
A quarterly dividend of $0.3660 per share was paid on September 4, 2019 in the aggregate amount of $87.3 million.
A quarterly dividend of $0.3665 per share was declared on November 5, 2019 and will be paid on December 5, 2019 to stockholders of record as of November 21, 2019.
We expect the aggregate cash dividend for December 2019 to be approximately $87.7 million.
Our Board is free to change our dividend practices at any time and to increase or decrease the dividend paid, or not to pay a dividend on our common stock on the basis of our results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements and future prospects, and other factors deemed relevant by our Board.
Our current intent is to provide for ongoing quarterly cash dividends depending upon market conditions, our results of operations, and potential changes in tax laws.
We believe that our existing sources of liquidity combined with cash generated from operations and borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility will be sufficient to meet our currently anticipated cash requirements for at least the next 12 months.
However, the semiconductor industry is capital intensive.
In order to remain competitive, we must constantly evaluate the need to make significant investments in capital equipment for both production and research and development.
We may increase our borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility or seek additional equity or debt financing from time to time to maintain or expand our wafer fabrication and product assembly and test facilities, for cash dividends, for share repurchases or for acquisitions or other purposes.
The timing and amount of any such financing requirements will depend on a number of factors, including our level of dividend payments, changes in tax laws and regulations regarding the repatriation of offshore cash (including the impact of the Act), demand for our products, changes in industry conditions, product mix, competitive factors and our ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates.
There can be no assurance that such financing will be available on acceptable terms, and any additional equity financing would result in incremental ownership dilution to our existing stockholders.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements (Including Guarantees)

As of September 30, 2019, we are not involved in any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S-K with the exception of standby letters of credit or other guarantee instruments to certain parties as required for certain transactions initiated by us or our subsidiaries.
We have not recorded any liability in connection with these guarantee arrangements.
Based on historical experience and information currently available, we believe we will not be required to make any payments under these guarantee arrangements.
Prior to the first quarter of fiscal 2020, we did not record any liability in connection with various operating leases for buildings and equipment entered into in the ordinary course of business.
We recorded the associated lease obligations as a liability when we adopted the provisions of the Accounting Standard Update 2016-02-Leases, which was effective April 1, 2019.
Refer to Note 2 and Note 11 to our condensed consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the adoption of this accounting standard.
Item 2.
UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS

We did not repurchase any shares of our common stock in the three months ended September 30, 2019.
Item 6.
EXHIBITS



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
