 Item 1. Financial Statements.  
 TESSCO Technologies Incorporated  
 Consolidated Balance Sheets  
 See accompanying notes to unaudited consolidated financial statements.  
 TESSCO Technologies Incorporated  
 Unaudited Consolidated Statements of Income  
 See accompanying notes to unaudited consolidated financial statements.  
 TESSCO Technologies Incorporated  
 Unaudited Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity  
 See accompanying notes to unaudited consolidated financial statements.  
 TESSCO Technologies Incorporated  
 See accompanying notes to unaudited consolidated financial statements.  
 TESSCO Technologies Incorporated   
 Notes to Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements  
 Note 1. Description of Business and Basis of Presentation  
 TESSCO Technologies Incorporated, a Delaware corporation (TESSCO, we, or the Company), architects and delivers innovative product and value chain solutions to support wireless systems. The Company provides marketing and sales services, knowledge and supply chain management, product-solution delivery and control systems utilizing extensive internet and information technology. Approximately 97% of the Company’s sales are made to customers in the United States. The Company takes orders in several ways, including phone, fax, online and through electronic data interchange. Almost all of the Company’s sales are made in United States Dollars.  
 Note 2. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements  
 In June 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued ASU No. 2016-13, Financial Instruments – Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments which amends the impairment model by requiring entities to use a forward-looking approach based on expected losses rather than incurred losses to estimate credit losses on certain types of financial instruments, including trade receivables. This may result in the earlier recognition of allowances for losses. This ASU is effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2019. The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements and will adopt the standard on the first day of the Company’s 2021 fiscal year.  
 Effective April 1, 2019, the Company adopted the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2016-02, Leases. This ASU requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets related to the rights and obligations created by those leases. The ASU also requires additional qualitative and quantitative disclosures related to the nature, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases. The Company adopted this standard on the first day of the 2020 fiscal year, using a modified retrospective approach. Therefore, the Company recorded a right-of-use asset of $4,398,300 and lease liabilities of $4,420,800 for operating leases as of June 30, 2019. Prior periods were not adjusted to reflect this change.   
 Effective April 1, 2019, the Company adopted the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-15, Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments. The new standard changes the classification of certain cash payments and receipts within the cash flow statement. Specifically, payments for debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs, including third-party costs, premiums paid, and other fees paid to lenders that are directly related to the debt prepayment or debt extinguishment, excluding accrued interest, are now classified as financing activities. Previously, these payments were classified as operating expenses. Adoption of this standard did not have an impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company, included herein.  
 The Company’s selling, general and administrative expenses for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2019 includes $338,900 of non-cash stock-based compensation expense. The Company’s selling, general and administrative expenses for the fiscal quarter ended July 1, 2018 included $320,500 of non-cash stock-based compensation expense. Non-cash stock-based compensation expense is primarily related to our Performance Stock Units (PSUs), Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) and Stock Options, granted or outstanding under the Company’s Third Amended and Restated Stock and Incentive Plan (the “1994 Plan”). On June 4, 2019, the Board of Directors approved the 2019 Stock and Incentive Plan of the Company, subject to shareholder approval, which occurred at the Annual Meeting of Shareholders held on July 25, 2019. Effective upon shareholder approval of the 2019 Stock and Incentive Plan, no additional awards may be granted under the 1994 Plan, although awards outstanding under the 1994 Plan remain outstanding and governed by its terms.  
metrics are met to a sufficient extent, the shares earned at the end of fiscal 2020 on the basis of that performance will vest in four equal installments beginning on or about May 15, 2020 and continuing on the same date in calendar 2021, 2022 and 2023, provided that the respective employee remains employed by or associated with the Company on each such date. Pursuant to the typical PSU award agreement, however, performance metrics are deemed met upon the occurrence of a change in control, and shares earned are issued earlier upon the occurrence of a change in control, or death or disability of the employee, or upon termination of the employee’s employment without cause or by the employee for good reason, as those terms are defined in the applicable PSU award agreement.   
 The PSUs cancelled during fiscal 2020 related to the fiscal 2019 grant of PSUs, which also had a one-year measurement period (fiscal 2019). The PSUs were cancelled because the applicable fiscal 2019 performance targets were not fully attained. Per the provisions of the 1994 Plan, the shares related to these forfeited and cancelled PSUs were added back to the 1994 Plan and became available for future issuance under the 1994 Plan.  
accrue and are not paid on unvested PSUs and RSUs.   
 The value of each option at the date of grant is amortized as compensation expense over the service period. This occurs without regard to subsequent changes in stock price, volatility, or interest rates over time, provided the option remains outstanding.   
 The following tables summarize the pertinent information for outstanding options.   
otherwise Borrowers and the previously existing grant by the Company and the other Loan Parties of a continuing first priority security interest in inventory, accounts receivable and deposit accounts, and on all documents, instruments, general intangibles, letter of credit rights, and all proceeds) were ratified and confirmed as respects the Obligations arising from time to time under the secured Revolving Credit Facility provided for under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, and as respects certain other obligations of the Loan Parties to the Lenders and their affiliates arising from time to time, relating to swaps, hedges and cash management and other bank products.   
 Borrowings may be used for working capital and other general corporate purposes, and as further provided in, and subject to the applicable terms of, the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement. As of June 30, 2019, borrowings under the secured Revolving Credit Facility totaled $20.1 million and, therefore, the Company had $54.9 million available for borrowing as of June 30, 2019, subject to the Borrowing Base limitation and compliance with the other applicable terms of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, including the covenants referenced above. The line of credit has a lockbox arrangement associated with it and therefore the outstanding balance is classified as a current liability on our balance sheet. As of March 31, 2019, borrowings under the secured Revolving Credit Facility totaled $14.4 million and, therefore, the Company had $60.6 million available on its revolving line of credit facility as of March 31, 2019, again subject to the Borrowing Base limitation and compliance with the other applicable terms of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, including the covenants referenced above.  
 Note 5. Earnings Per Share  
 The retail segment consists of the retail market which includes retailers, independent dealer agents and carriers.   
 Note 8. Shares Withheld   
 Note 9. Concentration of Risk  
 Note 10. Subsequent Event  
 The lease for the Company’s office space located at 375 West Padonia Road, Timonium, Maryland, 21093, and which includes approximately 102,164 rentable square feet, had been scheduled to end in December 2020. In July 2019, the Company entered an amendment to the lease agreement to extend the lease term to December 
 Item 1. Legal Proceedings.  
 Item 1A. Risk Factors.  
