 Business Overview and Environment  
 TESSCO Technologies Incorporated (TESSCO, we, or the Company) architects and delivers innovative product and value chain solutions to support wireless broadband systems. Although we sell products to customers in many countries, approximately 98% of our sales are made to customers in the United States. We have operations and office facilities in Hunt Valley, Maryland, Reno, Nevada and San Antonio, Texas.   
 Our third quarter fiscal 2018 revenue decreased by 0.6% compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2017. We experienced third quarter fiscal 2018 revenue growth within our commercial segments of 4.2% and a decrease in revenue in the retail segment of 7.9%. The growth in our commercial segment is driven by increases in our government, private system operators and value-added resellers market. This growth was partially offset by a decrease in revenue in our public carrier market, which decreased by 12.1%, as compared to the same quarter last year. The decline in our public carrier market is primarily due to timing-related order delays. For the retail segment, revenue declined due, in part, to the timing of the iPhone launch. On the product side, revenue 
 Our third quarter fiscal year 2018 gross profit decreased by 1.2%, compared to the third quarter of fiscal year 2017. The decrease in gross profit was primarily the result of the decrease in revenue discussed above, and in part the result of slightly compressed gross profit margins caused by changes in customer and product mix, including a lower percentage of proprietary Ventev® sales as compared to the prior year period. Total selling, general and administrative expenses decreased by 1.6% compared to the prior-year quarter. The new tax law signed in December also provided a benefit of approximately $0.3 million in this year’s third quarter. As a result, net income increased by 27.9% and diluted earnings per share increased by 26.7% compared to the prior-year quarter.  
 Third Quarter of Fiscal Year 2018 Compared with Third Quarter of Fiscal Year 2017  
 Total Gross Profit. Gross profit for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 decreased by 1.2% compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2017. Overall gross profit margin decreased slightly from 20.4% in the third quarter of fiscal 2017 to 20.2% in the third quarter of fiscal 2018. This decline was primarily caused by a change in product and customer mix, including a lower percentage of proprietary Ventev® sales as compared to the prior year period. Within our commercial segment, gross profit in our government and private systems operators markets increased by 22.4% and 8.2%, respectively. Gross profit in our public carrier and our value-added reseller markets decreased by 21.9% and 2.3%, respectively. We continue to experience margin compression within the public carrier market because of changes in customer mix, including more Tier 1 Carrier installers and contractors. Within our retail market, gross profit decreased by 0.9% in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 as compared to 2017, due to lower revenue, but was partially offset by customer mix and support from our vendors to win additional business.   
 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. Total selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 1.6% for the third quarter of fiscal 2018, compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2017. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues decreased slightly from 18.9% for the third quarter of fiscal 2017, to 18.7% for the third quarter of fiscal 2018.  
 Compensation and benefits expense decreased by $1.1 million for the third quarter of fiscal 2018, compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2017. We have undergone several efficiency initiatives during fiscal 2018 which have resulted in a reduction in headcount as compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2017.   
 Pay for performance bonus expense (including both cash and equity plans) increased by $0.5 million for the third quarter of fiscal 2018, compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2017. Our bonus programs are typically based on achieving annual performance targets. The relationship between expected performance and actual performance led to higher bonus accruals in the third quarter of fiscal 2018, as compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2017.  
 Interest, Net. Net interest expense increased from $37,100 for the third quarter of fiscal 2017 to $114,500 for the third quarter of fiscal 2018. Increased focus on business opportunities for sales to our public carrier customers has required us to maintain increased inventory and accounts receivable levels, and at times has resulted in increased borrowings and interest expense under our Revolving Credit Facility (discussed in Note 4 to our Consolidated Financial statements, included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q). We expect this higher level of interest expense to continue for at least the next several quarters.   
 Total Gross Profit. Gross profit for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 increased by 3.3% compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2017. Within our commercial segment, gross profit in our public carriers market increased by 7.4%. Gross profit in our government and our private system operator markets increased by 9.8% and 6.3%, respectively. This growth in our commercial segment was partially offset by a decrease in our value-added resellers market revenue of 3.0%. Within our retail market, gross profit increased by 5.0% in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 as compared to 2017. Overall gross profit margin decreased from 20.9% in the first nine months of fiscal 2017 to 20.6% in the first nine months of fiscal 2018. This decline was primarily caused by a change in product and customer mix, including the increase in lower margin sales in our public carrier market.   
 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. Total selling, general and administrative expenses increased by 0.5% or $0.4 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2018, compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2017. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues decreased from 19.9% for the first nine months of fiscal 2017, to 19.0% for the first nine months of fiscal 2018.  
 Compensation and benefit expense decreased by $0.8 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2018, compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2017. We have undergone several efficiency initiatives during fiscal 2018 which has resulted in a reduction in headcount as compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2017.  
 Pay for performance bonus expense (including both cash and equity plans) increased by $2.3 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2018, compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2017. Our bonus programs are typically based on achieving annual performance targets. The relationship between expected performance and actual performance led to higher bonus accruals in the first nine months of fiscal 2018, as compared to the first nine month of fiscal 2017.  
 Corporate Support expense decreased by $1.5 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2018, compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2017 primarily related to decreases in recruiting, bad debt, and new product development expenses. The decrease in recruiting expense relates to our CEO recruitment efforts in the first half of fiscal 2017.   
 We continually evaluate the credit worthiness of our existing customer receivable portfolio and provide an appropriate reserve based on this evaluation. We also evaluate the credit worthiness of prospective and current customers and make decisions regarding extension of credit terms to such customers based on this evaluation. We incurred bad debt expense of $433,200 and $633,500 for the nine months ended December 24, 2017 and December 25, 2016, respectively. There were several bad debt recoveries in the second quarter of fiscal 2018, causing an abnormally low year to date expense.   
 Interest, Net. Net interest expense increased from $65,700 for the first nine of fiscal 2017 to $339,600 for the first nine months of fiscal 2018. Increased focus on business opportunities for sales to our public carrier customers has required us to maintain increased inventory and accounts receivable levels, and at times has resulted in increased borrowings and interest expense under our Revolving Credit Facility (discussed in Note 4 to our Consolidated Financial statements, included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q). We expect this higher level of interest expense to continue for at least the next several quarters.  
 We used $7.3 million of net cash from operating activities for the first nine months of fiscal 2018, compared with net cash provided by operating activities of $0.6 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2017. This fiscal 2018 outflow was driven by an increase in accounts receivable and product inventory, partially offset by net income and an increase in accounts payable. Increasing sales to our public carrier customers required significant investments in inventory and at times results in larger accounts receivable balances. Accounts payable also increased in response to our higher inventory levels. Both current and potential opportunities within our public carrier business have required an increase in working capital investments. As such, on October 19, 2017 we entered into the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, as discussed below, based upon our anticipated borrowing and cash needs.  
 Net cash used in investing activities of $2.1 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 was up from expenditures of $1.9 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2017. Cash used in both periods was due to capital expenditures largely comprised of investments in information technology.   
 Net cash provided by financing activities was $1.0 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2018, compared to $7.2 million used in the first nine months of fiscal 2017. During the first nine months of fiscal 2018, we utilized our asset based secured Revolving Credit Facility, leading to a cash inflow of $5.9 million. During the first nine months of each of fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017, we had cash outflows of $5.0 million due to cash dividends paid to shareholders. Additionally, during the first nine months of fiscal 2017, we had a cash outflow of $1.9 million relating to the repayment of our term loan. As discussed in Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, cash flows associated with the tax impact of employee stock compensation are now included as a cash flow from operating activities. All amounts disclosed above have been adjusted to reflect this change.   
 The Credit Agreement also set forth financial covenants, including a fixed charge coverage ratio to be 
maintained at any time during which the borrowing availability, as determined in accordance with the Credit Agreement, falls below $10 million, as well as terms that could limit our ability to engage in specified transactions or activities, including (but not limited to) investments and acquisitions, sales of assets, payment of dividends, issuance of additional debt and other matters.   
 Pursuant to a related Guaranty and Security Agreement by and among the Company, the other Company affiliate borrowers under the Credit Agreement and other subsidiaries of the Company, referred to collectively as the Loan Parties, and SunTrust Bank, as Administrative Agent, the Loan Parties’ obligations, which include the obligations under the Credit Agreement, are guaranteed by those Loan Parties which are not otherwise borrowers, and secured by continuing first priority security interests in the Company’s and the other Loan Parties’ (including both borrowers and guarantors) inventory, accounts receivable and deposit accounts, and in all documents, instruments, general intangibles, letter of credit rights and chattel paper, in each case to the extent relating to inventory and accounts, and in all proceeds of the foregoing. The security interests are granted in favor of the Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the Lenders party to the Credit Agreement from time to time. The obligations secured also include certain other obligations of the Loan Parties to the Lenders and their affiliates arising from time to time, relating to swaps, hedges and cash management and other bank products.  
 Effective July 13, 2017, we entered into a First Amendment to Credit Agreement, pursuant to which, the term “Availability” as used in the Credit Agreement was amended for a period of time ending no later than October 31, 2017, to allow for the inclusion of an additional sum when calculating “Availability” for certain limited purposes. This additional sum equals the lesser of $10 million, and the amount by which the Borrowing Base exceeds $35 million. This First Amendment did not provide for any increase in the $35 million Aggregate Revolving Commitment Amount, but allowed the Company greater flexibility under the Credit Agreement for a limited period of time, until October 31, 2017, and was sought by the Company in response to business opportunities identified by the Company. Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined in this and the preceding three paragraphs have the meanings ascribed to each in the Credit Agreement or First Amendment, as applicable.   
less than 181 days; and (iii) the lesser of (x) $4 million and (y) the Inventory Formula Amount for all Eligible Inventory which is aged at least 181 days; minus (B) Reserves. Upon closing, there was $23.4 million outstanding under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement.   
 In connection with the entering into of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, the Company and the other Loan Parties executed and delivered to SunTrust Bank, as Administrative Agent, a Reaffirmation Agreement, pursuant to which the obligations of the Loan Parties under the Guaranty and Security Agreement delivered by the Loan Parties in connection with the secured credit facility as previously existing (including the previously existing guaranty by the Loan Parties not otherwise Borrowers and the previously existing grant by the Company and the other Loan Parties of a continuing first priority security interest in inventory, accounts receivable and deposit accounts, and on all documents, instruments, general intangibles, letter of credit rights, and all proceeds) were ratified and confirmed as respects the Obligations arising under the Amended and Restated Credit Facility from time to time.   
 On March 31, 2009, we entered into a term loan with the Baltimore County Economic Development Revolving Loan Fund for an aggregate principal amount of $250,000. The term loan is payable in equal monthly installments of principal and interest of $2,300, with the balance due at maturity on April 1, 2019. The term loan bears interest at 2.00% per annum and is secured by a subordinate position on our Hunt Valley, Maryland facility. At December 24, 2017, the principal balance of this term loan was $36,300.  
 We have made quarterly dividend payments to holders of our common stock since the third quarter of fiscal 2010. Our most recent quarterly cash dividend of $0.20 per share was paid in November 2017. On January 23, 2018, we declared a quarterly cash dividend in the amount of $0.20 per share, payable on February 28, 2018 to shareholders of record as of February 14, 2018.   
 Any future declaration of dividends and the establishment of any corresponding record and payment dates remains subject to further determination from time to time by the Board of Directors.   
 Recent Accounting Pronouncements   
 A description of recently issued and adopted accounting pronouncements is contained in Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements.  
 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates   
 For a detailed discussion on our critical accounting policies, please refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 26, 2017.   
 We have no material off-balance sheet arrangements.  
 Forward-Looking Statements  
 Table of Contents  
 Available Information  
 Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.   
