 Business Overview and Environment  
 TESSCO architects and delivers innovative product and value chain solutions to support wireless broadband systems. Although we sell products to customers in many countries, approximately 98% of our sales are made to customers in the United States. We have operations and office facilities in Hunt Valley, Maryland, Reno, Nevada and San Antonio, Texas.   
 Our first quarter fiscal 2019 revenue increased by 7.8% compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2018. We experienced first quarter fiscal 2019 revenue growth within our commercial segments of 16.2% and a decrease in revenue in the retail segment of 7.9%, as compared to the first fiscal quarter of 2018. The growth in our commercial segment was driven by increases in our public carrier, government and, private system operators markets. For the retail segment, year over year, revenue declined due, in part, to the timing of two Samsung Galaxy phone launches. The prior launch occurred in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, while the most recent launch instead occurred in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2018, contributing to a decline in year over year first quarter revenue. On the product side, revenue increased in our base station infrastructure and our installation, test and maintenance categories by 25.8% and 6.3%, respectively. Revenue decreased in our network systems and our mobile device accessories categories by 4.4% and 7.4%, respectively, for the first quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to the same quarter last year.   
 Our first quarter fiscal year 2019 gross profit increased by 5.3%, compared to the first quarter of fiscal year 2018. The increase in gross profit was primarily the result of the increase in revenue discussed above, and in 
 Table of Contents  
 Table of Contents  
 Total Revenues. Revenues for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased 7.8% compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018. Within our commercial segment, revenues in our public carrier market increased by 51.7%. This growth was primarily driven by our ability to expand market share with Tier 1 Carrier installers and contractors. We also experienced revenue growth within our government and private system operators markets of 9.3% and 2.8%, respectively, over the prior year quarter. The increase in revenue from our government market was primarily related to increased spending by government contractors related to state and local government fiscal year ends. The increase in revenue for our private system operators is primarily driven by increases from manufacturing and mining customers. Revenues in our value-added resellers market decreased slightly by 1.0%. The growth in our commercial segment was partially offset by a decline in our retail segment of 7.9%, as compared to the first fiscal quarter of 2018. The first fiscal quarter of 2018 included retail segment revenue associated with the introduction by Samsung of a new Galaxy phone. This year, Samsung again introduced a new Galaxy phone, but did so earlier in the calendar year, leading to the receipt of a significant portion of related revenues in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, instead of the first quarter of fiscal 2019.   
 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. Total selling, general and administrative expenses increased 3.9% for the first quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2018. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues decreased from 19.9% for the first quarter of fiscal 2018, to 19.2% for the first quarter of fiscal 2019.  
 The increase in our selling, general and administrative expenses was primarily due to the increase in our information technology expense of $0.8 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2018. We continue to invest in our information technology infrastructure to support our sales initiatives.   
 Table of Contents  
 Interest, Net. Net interest expense increased from $68,600 for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 to $174,400 for the first quarter of fiscal 2019. Increased focus on business opportunities for sales to our public carrier customers has required us to maintain increased inventory and accounts receivable levels, and at times has resulted in increased borrowings and interest expense under our Revolving Credit Facility (discussed in Note 4 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q). We expect this higher level of interest expense to continue for at least the next several quarters.   
 Income Taxes, Net Income and Diluted Earnings per Share. The effective tax rate decreased from 43.9% for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 to 25.9% for the first quarter of fiscal 2019. The effective tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was lower primarily due to a change in tax law. The annual federal rate has dropped from 35% to 21% due to the Tax Act. As a result of the factors discussed above, net income increased 69.6% and diluted earnings per share increased 62.5% for the first quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to the corresponding prior-year quarter.   
 The following table summarizes our cash flows provided by or used in operating, investing and financing activities for the three months ended July 1, 2018 and June 25, 2017.  
 We used $1.7 million of net cash from operating activities for the first three months of fiscal 2019, compared with net cash used in operating activities of $14.1 million for the first three months of fiscal 2018. This fiscal 2018 outflow was driven by an increase in accounts receivable and product inventory, partially offset by net income and an increase in accounts payable. We have determined that increasing sales to our public carrier customers requires significant investments in inventory, which times results in larger accounts receivable balances. Accounts payable also increased in response to higher inventory levels. Both current and potential opportunities within our public carrier business have required an increase in working capital investments. As such, on October 19, 2017 we entered into the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, as discussed below, based upon our anticipated borrowing and cash needs.  
 Net cash used in investing activities of $1.4 million for the first three months of fiscal 2019 was up from expenditures of $0.8 million for the first three months of fiscal 2018. Cash used in both periods was due to capital expenditures largely comprised of investments in information technology.   
 Net cash provided by financing activities was $3.1 million for the first three months of fiscal 2019, compared to $6.6 million provided in the first three months of fiscal 2018. During the first three months of fiscal 2019 and 2018, we utilized our asset based secured Revolving Credit Facility, leading to a cash inflow of $4.9 million 
 Table of Contents  
and $8.3 million, respectively. During the first three months of each of fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018, we had cash outflows of $1.7 million due to cash dividends paid to shareholders.   
 On October 19, 2017, the Company and its primary operating subsidiaries, as co-borrowers, entered into an Amended and Restated Credit Agreement with the Company’s primary lenders. Pursuant to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, the Credit Agreement for the secured Revolving Credit Facility previously established in June 2016, was amended and restated in order to, among other things, increase the Company’s borrowing limit from up to $35 million to up to $75 million. In addition to expanding the borrowing limit, the Amended and Restated Credit Facility extends the applicable maturity date to October 19, 2021. As of July 1, 2018, we had a $15.8 million balance on the Revolving Credit Facility; therefore, we had $59.2 million available, subject to the Borrowing Base limitations and compliance with the other applicable terms of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, including the financial and other covenants discussed in Note 4 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.  
 In connection with the entering into of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, the Company and the other Company affiliate borrowers and subsidiaries, referred to collectively as the Loan Parties, executed and delivered to SunTrust Bank, as Administrative Agent, a Reaffirmation Agreement, pursuant to which the obligations of the Loan Parties under the Guaranty and Security Agreement delivered by the Loan Parties in connection with the secured credit facility as previously existing (including the previously existing guaranty by the Loan Parties not otherwise Borrowers and the previously existing grant by the Company and the other Loan Parties of a continuing first priority security interest in inventory, accounts receivable and deposit accounts, and on all documents, instruments, general intangibles, letter of credit rights, and all proceeds) were ratified and confirmed as respects the Obligations arising under the Amended and Restated Credit Facility from time to time.   
 Any future declaration of dividends and the establishment of any corresponding record and payment dates remains subject to further determination from time to time by the Board of Directors.   
 Table of Contents  
 Recent Accounting Pronouncements   
 A description of recently issued and adopted accounting pronouncements is contained in Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements.  
 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates   
 For a detailed discussion on our critical accounting policies, please refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 1, 2018.   
 We have no material off-balance sheet arrangements.  
 Forward-Looking Statements  
 Table of Contents  
 Available Information  
 Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.   
