 Item 1. Financial Statements.  
 TESSCO Technologies Incorporated  
 Consolidated Balance Sheets  
 TESSCO Technologies Incorporated  
 Unaudited Consolidated Statements of Income  
 TESSCO Technologies Incorporated  
 TESSCO Technologies Incorporated   
 Notes to Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements  
 Note 1. Description of Business and Basis of Presentation  
 TESSCO Technologies Incorporated, a Delaware corporation (TESSCO, we, or the Company), architects and delivers innovative product and value chain solutions to support wireless systems. The Company provides marketing and sales services, knowledge and supply chain management, product-solution delivery and control systems utilizing extensive internet and information technology. Approximately 98% of the Company’s sales are made to customers in the United States. The Company takes orders in several ways, including phone, fax, online and through electronic data interchange. Almost all of the Company’s sales are made in United States Dollars.  
 Note 2. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements  
 In February 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-02, Leases. This ASU requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets related to the rights and obligations created by those leases. The ASU also requires additional qualitative and quantitative disclosures related to the nature, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases. The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements.  
 In August 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2016-15, Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments. The new standard will change the classification of certain cash payments and receipts within the cash flow statement. Specifically, payments for debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs, including third-party costs, premiums paid, and other fees paid to lenders that are directly related to the debt prepayment or debt extinguishment, excluding accrued interest, will now be classified as financing activities. Previously, these payments were classified as operating expenses. The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, with early adoption permitted, and will be applied retrospectively. The Company does not expect that the adoption of this new standard will have a material impact on its Consolidated Financial Statements.  
 In December 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-19, “Technical Corrections and Improvements”. Among other things, the ASU provides clarification on the presentation of the costs of computer software developed or obtained for internal use. The Company retrospectively adopted the ASU in the three months ended June 25, 2017 and reclassified the carrying value of internal-use computer software from Property, plant and equipment, net to Intangible assets, net. The net carrying value of internal-use computer software was $4.2 million and $4.3 million, respectively, as of December 24, 2017 and March 26, 2017.  
 The Company’s selling, general and administrative expenses for the fiscal quarter and nine months ended December 24, 2017 includes $243,500 and $745,400, respectively, of non-cash stock-based compensation expense. The Company’s selling, general and administrative expenses for the fiscal quarter and nine months ended December 25, 2016 include $98,700 and $291,100, respectively, of non-cash stock-based compensation expense. Stock-based compensation expense is primarily related to our Performance Stock Units (PSUs), Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) and Stock Options, granted or outstanding under the Company’s Third Amended and Restated Stock and Incentive Plan (the “1994 Plan”).   
 The PSUs cancelled during fiscal 2018 primarily related to the fiscal 2017 grant of PSUs, which had a one-year measurement period (fiscal 2017). The PSUs were cancelled because the minimum applicable fiscal 2017 performance targets were not attained. Per the 1994 Plan, the shares related to these forfeited and cancelled PSUs were added back to the 1994 Plan and became available for future issuance under the 1994 Plan.  
 As of December 24, 2017, there was approximately $0.8 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to all outstanding RSUs, assuming all shares are earned. Unrecognized compensation costs are expected to be recognized ratably over a weighted average period of approximately three years.   
 The value of each option at the date of grant is amortized as compensation expense over the service period. This occurs without regard to subsequent changes in stock price, volatility, or interest rates over time, provided the option remains outstanding.   
 The following tables summarize pertinent information for outstanding options.   
 As of December 24, 2017, there was approximately $0.8 million of total unrecognized compensation costs, related to these awards. These unrecognized compensation costs are expected to be recognized ratably over a period of approximately four years.   
 On June 24, 2016, the Company and its primary operating subsidiaries entered into a Credit Agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) with SunTrust Bank, as Administrative Agent and Lender, and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as a Lender, for a senior asset based secured revolving credit facility of up to $35 million (the “Revolving Credit Facility”). This replaced the Company’s previously existing $35 million unsecured revolving credit facility with both SunTrust Bank and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, which had no outstanding principal balance at the time of replacement. The replacement Revolving Credit Facility included terms providing for its maturity after five years, on June 24, 2021, and for a $5.0 million sublimit for the issuance of standby letters of credit and a $10.0 million sublimit for swing line loans. Borrowing Availability under the replacement Revolving Credit Facility as it was initially established is determined in part in accordance with a Borrowing Base, defined in the Credit Agreement, generally, as 85% of Eligible Receivables minus Reserves. The Credit Agreement also set forth financial covenants, including a fixed charge coverage ratio that must be maintained at any time during which the borrowing availability, as determined in accordance with and subject to the terms of the Credit Agreement, falls below $10 million, as well as terms that could limit the Company’s ability to engage in specified transactions or activities, including (but not limited to) investments 
and acquisitions, sales of assets, payment of dividends, issuance of additional debt and other matters. Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined in this Note have the meanings ascribed to each in the Credit Agreement or in the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (discussed below), as applicable.   
 Pursuant to a related Guaranty and Security Agreement by and among the Company, the other Company affiliate borrowers under the Credit Agreement and other subsidiaries of the Company, who are referred to collectively as the Loan Parties, and SunTrust Bank, as Administrative Agent, the Loan Parties’ obligations, which include the obligations under the Credit Agreement, are guaranteed by those Loan Parties which are not otherwise borrowers, and secured by continuing first priority security interests in the Company’s and the other Loan Parties’ (including both borrowers and guarantors) inventory, accounts receivable and deposit accounts, and in all documents, instruments, general intangibles, letter of credit rights and chattel paper, in each case to the extent relating to inventory and accounts, and in all proceeds of the foregoing. The security interests are granted in favor of the Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the Lenders party to the Credit Agreement from time to time. The obligations secured also include certain other obligations of the Loan Parties to the Lenders and their affiliates arising from time to time, relating to swaps, hedges and cash management and other bank products.  
 Effective July 13, 2017, the Company and its primary operating subsidiaries, as co-borrowers, and SunTrust Bank, as Administrative Agent and Lender, and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as a Lender, entered into a First Amendment to Credit Agreement (the “First Amendment”), to amend select terms of the Credit Agreement. Pursuant to the First Amendment, the term “Availability” as used in the Credit Agreement was amended for a period of time ending no later than October 31, 2017, to allow for the inclusion of an additional sum when calculating Availability for certain limited purposes. This additional sum equals the lesser of $10 million, and the amount by which the Borrowing Base exceeds $35 million. This First Amendment did not increase the $35 million Aggregate Revolving Commitment Amount, but allowed the Company greater flexibility under the Credit Agreement for a limited period of time, until October 31, 2017, and was sought by the Company in response to business opportunities identified by the Company.  
 On October 19, 2017, the Company and its primary operating subsidiaries, as co-borrowers, and SunTrust Bank, as Administrative Agent and Lender, and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as a Lender, entered into an Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the “Amended and Restated Credit Agreement”). Pursuant to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, the Credit Agreement for the secured Revolving Credit Facility was amended and restated in order to, among other things, increase the Company’s borrowing limit from up to $35 million to up to $75 million.  
for all Eligible Inventory which is aged at least 181 days; minus (B) Reserves. Upon closing, there was $23.4 million outstanding under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement.  
 In connection with the entering into of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, the Company and other Loan Parties executed and delivered to SunTrust Bank, as Administrative Agent, a Reaffirmation Agreement, pursuant to which the obligations of the Loan Parties under the Guaranty and Security Agreement delivered by them in connection with the secured credit facility as previously existing (including the previously existing guaranty by the Loan Parties not otherwise Borrowers and the previously existing grant by the Company and the other Loan Parties of a continuing first priority security interest in inventory, accounts receivable and deposit accounts, and on all documents, instruments, general intangibles, letter of credit rights, and all proceeds) were ratified and confirmed as respects the Obligations arising under the Amended and Restated Credit Facility from time to time.   
 Borrowings may be used for working capital and other general corporate purposes, and as further provided in, and subject to the applicable terms of, the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement. As of December 24, 2017, borrowings under this Revolving Credit Facility totaled $5.9 million and, therefore, the Company had $69.1 million available for borrowing as of December 24, 2017, subject to the Borrowing Base limitation and compliance with the other applicable terms of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, including the covenants referenced above. The line of credit has a lockbox arrangement associated with it and therefore the outstanding balance is classified as a current liability on our balance sheet. As of March 26, 2017, the Company had a zero balance on the Revolving Credit Facility.  
 Note 5. Fair Value Disclosure   
 The Company had no assets or liabilities required to be measured at fair value as of December 24, 2017, or as of March 26, 2017.  
 The carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, trade accounts receivable, trade accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities approximate their fair values as of December 24, 2017, and March 26, 2017, due to their short-term nature.   
 The Company has adopted Accounting Standards Updated No. 2016-09 Topic 718, Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting (“ASU 2016-09”), effective as of March 27, 2017. The new guidance requires all of the tax effects related to share-based payments to be recognized through the income statement and is effective for public entities for annual and interim reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016. The Company will treat the tax effects of share-based compensation awards as discrete items in the interim reporting periods in which the windfalls or shortfalls occurred. As a result of the adoption of the ASU 2016-09, the effective rate is 0.4% higher than if the ASU 2016-09 was not adopted for the nine months ended December 24, 2017.   
effective or may not result in accounting effects for fiscal year companies until the following fiscal year. In the Company’s case, the following fiscal year is the fiscal year beginning April 2, 2018.   
 Note 7. Earnings Per Share  
 During the first quarter of fiscal year 2018, in conjunction with the modification of the structure of the internal organization of the Company, as described above, the Company reviewed several customer types, including a large repair center customer, and reclassified them from the private system operators market to either the value-added resellers market or the retail market, based on their purchase history. The Company has restated prior periods reflected in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q to reflect these changes.   
 The Company evaluates goodwill at the reporting unit level. In conjunction with the change in segments, the Company evaluated its goodwill using Level 3 fair value inputs, and no impairment indicators were identified.   
   ·    Installation, test and maintenance products are used to install, tune, maintain and repair wireless communications equipment. Products include sophisticated analysis equipment and various 
 Note 9. Stock Buyback  
 Note 10. Concentration of Risk  
 For the fiscal quarter and nine months ended December 24, 2017 and December 25, 2016, no customer accounted for more than 10.0% of total consolidated revenues.  
 For the fiscal quarter ended December 24, 2017, sales of products purchased from the Company’s largest wireless infrastructure supplier and mobile device accessories supplier accounted for 9.2% and 8.9% of consolidated revenue, respectively. For the fiscal quarter ended December 25, 2016, sales of products purchased from the Company’s largest wireless infrastructure supplier and largest mobile device accessories supplier accounted for 10.0% and 9.6% of consolidated revenue, respectively.   
 For the nine months ended December 24, 2017, sales of products purchased from the Company’s largest mobile device accessories supplier and largest wireless infrastructure supplier accounted for 10.7% and 10.4% of consolidated revenue, respectively. For the nine months ended December 25, 2016, sales of products purchased from the Company’s largest mobile device accessories supplier and largest wireless infrastructure supplier accounted for 11.3% and 10.0% of consolidated revenue, respectively.   
 Item 1. Legal Proceedings.  
 Item 1A. Risk Factors.  
