 Item 1. Financial Statements.  
 TESSCO Technologies Incorporated  
 Consolidated Balance Sheets  
 See accompanying notes to unaudited consolidated financial statements.  
 TESSCO Technologies Incorporated  
 Unaudited Consolidated Statements of Income  
 See accompanying notes to unaudited consolidated financial statements.  
 TESSCO Technologies Incorporated  
 Unaudited Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity  
 See accompanying notes to unaudited consolidated financial statements.  
 TESSCO Technologies Incorporated  
 See accompanying notes to unaudited consolidated financial statements.  
 TESSCO Technologies Incorporated   
 Notes to Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements  
 Note 1. Description of Business and Basis of Presentation  
 TESSCO Technologies Incorporated, a Delaware corporation (TESSCO, we, or the Company), architects and delivers innovative product and value chain solutions to support wireless systems. The Company provides marketing and sales services, knowledge and supply chain management, product-solution delivery and control systems utilizing extensive internet and information technology. Approximately 97% of the Company’s sales are made to customers in the United States. The Company takes orders in several ways, including phone, fax, online and through electronic data interchange. Almost all of the Company’s sales are made in United States Dollars.  
 Note 2. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements  
 In June 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2016-13, Financial Instruments – Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments which amends the impairment model by requiring entities to use a forward-looking approach based on expected losses rather than incurred losses to estimate credit losses on certain types of financial instruments, including trade receivables. This may result in the earlier recognition of allowances for losses. This ASU is effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2019. The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements and will adopt the standard on the first day of the Company’s 2021 fiscal year.  
 Effective April 1, 2019, the Company adopted the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases. This ASU requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets related to the rights and obligations created by those leases. The ASU also requires additional qualitative and quantitative disclosures related to the nature, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases. The Company adopted this standard on the first day of the 2020 fiscal year, using a modified retrospective approach. This standard resulted in the Company recording a right-of-use asset and lease liability for all leases, but otherwise the standard did not have a material impact on the financial statements. Prior periods were not adjusted to reflect this change.   
 Effective April 1, 2019, the Company adopted the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-15, Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments. The new standard changes the classification of certain cash payments and receipts within the cash flow statement. Specifically, payments for debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs, including third-party costs, premiums paid, and other fees paid to lenders that are directly related to the debt prepayment or debt extinguishment, excluding accrued interest, are now classified as financing activities. Previously, these payments were classified as operating expenses. Adoption of this standard did not have an impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company, included herein.  
 The Company’s selling, general and administrative expenses for the fiscal quarter and six months ended September 29, 2019 includes $391,800 and $730,700, respectively, of non-cash stock-based compensation expense. The Company’s selling, general and administrative expenses for the fiscal quarter and six months ended September 30, 2018 includes $384,800 and $705,300, respectively, of non-cash stock-based compensation expense. Non-cash stock-based compensation expense is primarily related to our Performance Stock Units (PSUs), Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) and Stock Options, granted or outstanding under the Company’s Third Amended and Restated Stock and Incentive Plan (the “1994 Plan”) and 2019 Stock and Incentive Plan (the “2019 Plan” and together with the 1994 Plan, the “Plans”), which was approved at the Annual Meeting of Shareholders held on July 25, 2019. No additional awards may be granted under the 1994 Plan, although awards outstanding under the 1994 Plan remain outstanding and governed by its terms.  
metrics are met to a sufficient extent, the shares earned at the end of fiscal 2020 on the basis of that performance will vest in four equal installments beginning on or about May 15, 2020 and continuing on the same date in calendar 2021, 2022 and 2023, provided that the respective employee remains employed by the Company on each such date. Pursuant to the typical PSU award agreement, however, performance metrics are deemed met upon the occurrence of a change in control, and shares earned are issued earlier upon the occurrence of a change in control, or death or disability of the employee, or upon termination of the employee’s employment without cause or by the employee for good reason, as those terms are defined in the applicable PSU award agreement. In connection with his hiring as President and Chief Executive Officer on August 20, 2019, the Compensation Committee, with concurrence of the full Board of Directors, granted an additional PSU to Mr. Mukerjee, providing him with the opportunity to earn up to 6,116 shares of the Company’s common stock. This PSU was granted on the same terms as the PSUs granted in May 2019, except that this PSU was granted under the 2019 Plan and any shares earned pursuant to it on the basis of fiscal 2020 performance will vest in four equal installments beginning on the first anniversary of the commencement of the employment of Mr. Mukerjee and continue in calendar 2021, 2022 and 2023 on the same date as the other PSUs vest, provided that Mr. Mukerjee remains employed by the Company on each such date.  
 The PSUs cancelled during fiscal 2020 primarily related to the fiscal 2019 grant of PSUs, which also had a one-year measurement period (fiscal 2019). The PSUs were cancelled because the applicable fiscal 2019 performance targets were not fully attained. Per the provisions of the 1994 Plan, the shares related to these forfeited and cancelled PSUs were added back to the 1994 Plan and became available for future issuance under the 1994 Plan.  
 As of September 29, 2019, there was approximately $0.9 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to all outstanding RSUs, assuming all shares are earned. Unrecognized compensation costs are expected to be recognized ratably over a weighted average period of approximately three years.   
 The value of each option at the date of grant is amortized as compensation expense over the service period. This occurs without regard to subsequent changes in stock price, volatility, or interest rates over time, provided the option remains outstanding.   
 The following tables summarize the pertinent information for outstanding options.   
 On October 19, 2017, the Company and its primary operating subsidiaries, as co-borrowers, and SunTrust Bank, as Administrative Agent and Lender, and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as a Lender, entered into an Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the “Amended and Restated Credit Agreement”), which amended and restated the terms of a previously established secured Revolving Credit Facility with the same lenders , and which resulted in, among other modifications, an increase in the Company’s borrowing limit to up to $75 million, from the previous borrowing limit of up to $35 million. Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined in this and the following three paragraphs have the meanings ascribed to each in the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement.  
 In connection with the entering into of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, the Company, the other Company affiliate borrowers under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement and other subsidiaries of the Company, referred to collectively as the Loan Parties, executed and delivered to SunTrust Bank, as Administrative Agent, a Reaffirmation Agreement, pursuant to which the obligations of the Loan Parties under a Guaranty and Security Agreement previously delivered by them in connection with the secured Revolving Credit Facility as previously existing (including the previously existing guaranty by the Loan Parties not otherwise Borrowers and the previously existing grant by the Company and the other Loan Parties of a continuing first priority security interest in inventory, accounts receivable and deposit accounts, and on all documents, instruments, general intangibles, letter of credit rights, and all proceeds) were ratified and confirmed as respects the Obligations arising from time to time under the secured Revolving Credit Facility provided for under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, and as respects certain other obligations of the Loan Parties to the Lenders and their affiliates arising from time to time, relating to swaps, hedges and cash management and other bank products.   
 Borrowings may be used for working capital and other general corporate purposes, and as further provided in, and subject to the applicable terms of, the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement. As of September 29, 2019, borrowings under the secured Revolving Credit Facility totaled $35.3 million and, therefore, the Company had $39.7 million available for borrowing as of September 29, 2019, subject to the Borrowing Base limitation and compliance with the other applicable terms of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, including the covenants referenced above. The line of credit has a lockbox arrangement associated with it and therefore the outstanding balance is classified as a current liability on our balance sheet. As of March 31, 2019, borrowings under the secured Revolving Credit Facility totaled $14.4 million and, therefore, the Company had $60.6 million available on its revolving line of credit facility as of March 31, 2019, again subject to the Borrowing Base limitation and compliance with the other applicable terms of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, including the covenants referenced above.  
 Note 5. Earnings Per Share  
 The retail segment consists of the retail market which includes retailers, independent dealer agents and carriers.   
 The lease for the Company’s office space located at 375 West Padonia Road, Timonium, Maryland, 21093, and which includes approximately 102,164 rentable square feet, had been scheduled to end in December 2020. In July 2019, the Company entered into an amendment to the lease agreement to extend the lease term to December 15, 2025. Under the terms of this amendment, the base rental rate during the extended lease term ranges from $200,071 to $220,841 per month.  
 Note 8. Shares Withheld   
 Note 9. Concentration of Risk  
 For the fiscal quarter ended September 29, 2019, revenue from the Company’s largest customer accounted for 10.5% of total consolidated revenues. For the six months ended September 29, 2019 and the fiscal quarter and six months ended September 30, 2018, no customer accounted for more than 10% of total consolidated revenues.  
 For the six months ended September 29, 2019, sales of products from the Company’s largest wireless infrastructure supplier accounted for 21.7% of consolidated revenue. For the six months ended September 30, 2018, sales of products from the Company’s largest wireless infrastructure supplier accounted for 15.6% of consolidated revenue. No other suppliers accounted for more than 10% of consolidated revenue.  
 Table of Contents  
 Item 1. Legal Proceedings.  
