fls.txt
Some of the risk factors that affect our business and financial results are discussed within this document, in Part I, “Item 1A: Risk Factors” on pages 9 through 21 of our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our other SEC filings available for free on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov and on Motorola Solutions' website at www.motorolasolutions.com.


item1.txt
Accordingly, we will report lower net income because of the recognition of both the current period’s discount amortization and the New Senior Convertible Notes’ coupon interest, which could adversely affect the trading price of our shares of common stock and the trading price (if any) of the New Senior Convertible Notes.
Under the treasury stock method the number of shares outstanding for purposes of calculating diluted earnings per share includes the number of shares that would be required to settle the excess of the conversion value of the New Senior Convertible Notes, if any, over the principal amounts of the New Senior Convertible Notes (which would be settled in cash).


item2.txt
In May of 2019, we issued $650 million of 4.60% Senior notes due 2029.
The 2017 Motorola Solutions Credit Agreement includes a $500 million letter of credit sub-limit with $450 million of fronting commitments.
Subsequently, the shares were registered for resale by the selling securityholders pursuant to a registration statement filed on September 6, 2019.
•5% growth in Services, driven by growth in software and hardware maintenance revenue as well as managed services revenue, inclusive of acquisitions, and partially offset by currency headwinds.
As of January 1, 2019, we recognized operating lease liabilities of $648 million based on the present value of the remaining minimum rental payments determined under prior lease accounting standards and corresponding ROU assets of $588 million.
The restricted stock was issued for an aggregate grant-date fair value of $14 million that will be expensed over an average service period of two years.
These shares were issued in reliance upon the exemption from registration provided by Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, in a privately negotiated transaction not involving any public offering of solicitation.
On March 28, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Avigilon Corporation ("Avigilon"), a provider of advanced security and video solutions including video analytics, network video management hardware and software, video cameras and access control solutions for a purchase price of $974 million in cash, net of cash acquired, debt assumed, and transaction costs paid.
During the third quarter of 2019, we established an unsecured commercial paper program, backed by the revolving credit facility, under which we may issue unsecured commercial paper notes up to a maximum aggregate principal amount of $2.2 billion outstanding at any one time.
Using a discount rate of 2.45%, which was determined based on a review of relevant market data, we calculated the debt liability to be $986 million, indicating a $14 million discount to be amortized over the expected life of the debt instrument.
At September 28, 2019, $744 million of the $1.1 billion cash and cash equivalents balance was held in the U.S. and $396 million was held in other countries, with $74 million held in the United Kingdom.
•higher margins within Services and Software primarily driven by higher margin contribution within our Software portfolio from acquisitions and operational efficiencies in service delivery costs of our Services portfolio.
Item 2.
This was subsequently amended by ASU No.
We adopted ASC 842 as of January 1, 2019 using a modified retrospective transition approach for all leases existing at January 1, 2019, the date of the initial application.
We reached an agreement with the U.K. Home Office during the third quarter of 2018 on terms for the new direction of the U.K.
outstanding long-term debt for a purchase price of $654 million, excluding approximately $3 million of accrued interest.
In August of 2019, we issued a follow-on $150 million to the outstanding 4.60% senior notes due 2029 bringing the outstanding total to $800 million.


item3.txt
Defaults Upon Senior Securities.
Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements included in: (1) “Management's Discussion and Analysis,” about: (a) the impact of global economic and political conditions, (b) the impact of acquisitions on our business, (c) our business strategies and expected results, (d) future payments, charges, use of accruals and expected cost-saving benefits associated with our productivity improvement plans, reorganization of business programs, and employee separation costs, (e) our ability and cost to repatriate funds, (f) our ability to settle the principal amount of the New Senior Convertible Notes in cash, (g) our ability and cost to access the capital markets at our current ratings, (h) our ability to borrow and the amount available under our credit facilities, (i) the return of capital to shareholders through dividends and/or repurchasing shares, (j) the adequacy of our cash balances to meet current operating requirements, and (k) the outcome and effect of ongoing and future legal proceedings, (2) The impact of new FASB Accounting Standards Updates on our financial statements, (3) “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk,” about the impact of foreign currency exchange risks, (4) “Legal Proceedings,” about the ultimate disposition of pending legal matters.


item4.txt
None.


part2.txt
©2019 Motorola Solutions, Inc. All rights reserved.
On July 11, 2019 the Company issued 80,702 shares of restricted stock in connection with the acquisition of WatchGuard, Inc., a company that is a U.S. leader in mobile video solutions.
The selling securityholders will receive all of the proceeds from the sale or other disposition of the shares of common stock.
Item 1A.
These shares were issued in reliance upon the exemption from registration provided by Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, in a privately negotiated transaction not involving any public offering of solicitation.


