fls.txt
Some of the risk factors that affect our business and financial results are discussed within this document, in Part I, “Item 1A: Risk Factors” on pages 8 through 20 of our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our other SEC filings available for free on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov and on Motorola Solutions' website at www.motorolasolutions.com.


item1.txt
The Company is a defendant in various lawsuits, claims, and actions, which arise in the normal course of business.


item2.txt
We will adopt the ASU on January 1, 2019, utilizing the modified retrospective method as of the adoption date.
No additional borrowings are permitted and amounts borrowed and repaid or prepaid may not be re-borrowed.
The increase in net sales is reflective of growth in every region.
The Services and Software segment net sales increase in the Americas was driven by acquisitions within the Software business and growth absent of acquisitions in both Services and Software.
Item 2.
Borrowings under the facility bear interest at the prime rate plus the applicable margin, or at a spread above the London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR"), at our option.
In February of 2018, we issued $500 million of 4.60% Senior notes due 2028.
Net sales in the Americas continued to comprise a significant portion of the segment’s business, accounting for approximately 74% of the segment’s net sales in the third quarter of 2018, compared to 73% of the segment's net sales in the third quarter of 2017.
Net sales in the Americas continued to comprise a significant portion of the segment’s business, accounting for approximately 74% of the segment’s net sales in the third quarter of 2018, compared to 73% of the segment's net sales in the third quarter of 2017.
As of September 29, 2018, we had a $2.2 billion syndicated, unsecured revolving credit facility scheduled to mature in April 2022 (the "2017 Motorola Solutions Credit Agreement").
The amendments in the ASU require that an employer disaggregate the service cost component from the other components of net periodic cost (benefit) and report that component in the same line item as other compensation costs arising from services rendered by employees during the period.
We retained much of the same accounting treatment used to recognize revenue under ASC 606 as under accounting standards in effect in prior periods.
To complete the acquisition of Avigilon during the quarter ended March 31, 2018, we entered into a term loan for $400 million with a maturity date of March 26, 2021 (the “Term Loan”).
As of March 31, 2018, we borrowed $400 million under the facility to complete the Avigilon acquisition.
This acquisition expands our software portfolio in the command center with additional solutions for Next Generation 9-1-1.
Item 2.
The increase in net sales is reflective of growth in the Americas and EMEA.
Net sales in the Americas continued to comprise a significant portion of the segment’s business, accounting for approximately 74% of the segment’s net sales in the third quarter of 2018, compared to 73% of the segment's net sales in the third quarter of 2017.
The Products and Systems Integration segment grew 10% driven by the Americas and EMEA.
2018-14, “Compensation - Retirement Benefits - Defined Benefit Plans - General (Subtopic 715-20) - Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Defined Benefit Plans,” which modifies the disclosure requirements for the defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement plans.
Under prior accounting standards, we expensed sales commissions and other costs to obtain a contract as incurred.


item3.txt
Management believes that these financial instruments should not subject us to undue risk due to foreign exchange movements because gains and losses on these contracts should generally offset gains and losses on the underlying assets, liabilities and transactions.
Motorola Solutions undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement or risk factor, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.


item4.txt
©2018 Motorola Solutions, Inc. All rights reserved.
None.


part2.txt
None.
©2018 Motorola Solutions, Inc. All rights reserved.
Item 2.


