fls.txt
In addition to the risk factor above, the reader should carefully consider, in connection with the other information in this report, the factors discussed in Part I, “Item 1A: Risk Factors” on pages 8 through 20 of the Company’s 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K.


item1.txt
Because the interpretation and application of privacy and data protection laws are still uncertain, it is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our existing practices or the features of our products, services and software.
However, an unfavorable resolution could have a material adverse effect on the Company's condensed consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of operations in the periods in which the matters are ultimately resolved, or in the periods in which more information is obtained that changes management's opinion of the ultimate disposition.


item2.txt
The $1.2 billion of cash used in the first half of 2018 included $1.2 billion used for acquisitions and investments and $82 million in capital expenditures, partially offset by $79 million of proceeds from sales of investments and businesses.
The Services and Software segment net sales increase in the Americas was driven by the acquisitions of Plant and Kodiak Networks within the Software business, the acquisition of Interexport in Services and growth absent of acquisitions in both Services and Software.
After taxes, we had net earnings attributable to Motorola Solutions, Inc. of $297 million, or $1.73 per diluted share, in the first half of 2018, compared to net earnings attributable to Motorola Solutions, Inc. of $208 million, or $1.23 per diluted share, in the first half of 2017.
We recorded $20 million and $4 million in the three months ended June 30, 2018 and July 1, 2017, respectively, and $40 million and $1 million in the six months ended June 30, 2018 and July 1, 2017, respectively.
Under prior accounting standards, we expensed sales commissions and other costs to obtain a contract as incurred.
Item 2.
We are a leading global provider of mission-critical communication infrastructure, devices, accessories, software, and services.
We have investment grade ratings on our senior unsecured long-term debt from the three largest U.S. national rating agencies.
We are a leading global provider of mission-critical communication infrastructure, devices, accessories, software, and services.
We must comply with certain customary covenants including a maximum leverage ratio, as defined in the 2017 Motorola Solutions Credit Agreement.
On a geographic basis, net sales for the first half of 2018 increased in every region, compared to the first half of 2017.
The 2017 Motorola Solutions Credit Agreement includes a $500 million letter of credit sub-limit with $450 million of fronting commitments.
Cash payments for employee severance and exit costs in connection with the reorganization of business plans were $36 million in the first half of 2018 and $56 million in the first half of 2017.
Contract assets represent rights to consideration from a customer in exchange for transferred goods and services that are conditional on events other than the passage of time.
Systems and Systems Integration net sales within the Products and Systems Integration segment increased in every region.
The segment’s net sales increased $142 million, to $1.2 billion in the second quarter of 2018, as compared to $1.0 billion during the second quarter of 2017.
The Services and Software segment net sales increased in every region.
The notes are convertible based on a conversion rate of 14.7476, as may be adjusted for dividends declared, per $1,000 principal amount (which is currently equal to a conversion price of $67.81 per share).
On a geographic basis, net sales for the first half of 2018 increased in every region, compared to the first half of 2017.
The increase in gross margin percentage was primarily driven by favorable mix, the adoption of ASC 606, and improved margins in Services.


item3.txt
Defaults Upon Senior Securities.
None.


item4.txt
All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
Item 6.


part2.txt
The GDPR strengthens individual privacy rights and enhances data protection obligations for processors and controllers of personal data.
The GDPR strengthens individual privacy rights and enhances data protection obligations for processors and controllers of personal data.
Non-compliance with the GDPR can trigger fines of up to €20 million or 4% of total worldwide annual revenue, whichever is greater.


