Item 2: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations



Significant Highlights 





•Elected four new independent members to the Company's Board of Directors, continuing to refresh the Board to align with the Company's strategy and opportunities



•Executed a five-year agreement valued at more than $60 with one of the world’s largest fuel and convenience retailers to deploy a new, centralized card acceptance platform. The contract includes software licenses, professional and maintenance services for stores in 10 European markets



•Agreed to an $18 contract with a French retailers' supermarket cooperative for 600 self-checkout (SCO) systems and a four-year services contract 



•Won Windows 10 ATM product upgrades with several financial institutions, including an agreement with KeyBank to digitally transform more than 1,400 self-service devices with DN VynamicTM software



•Expanded a partnership with a major Belgian bank to upgrade more than 2,400 devices and cash recyclers to Windows 10, leveraging DN AllConnect ServicesSM and the DN Vynamic software suite



•Renewed two multi-year services contracts, valued at more than $90, with a top-three financial institution in the U.S. and a top-tier bank in Western Europe



•Secured a systems and services agreement with Halkbank in Turkey, including 250 cash recyclers, to expand its ATM fleet and improve the customer experience



•Awarded a project with Bank Pekao in Poland valued at more than $4, which includes nearly 230 cash recyclers 



Overview



Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes that appear within this quarterly report on Form 10-Q.



Introduction



The Company is a world leader in enabling Connected Commerce. The Company automates, digitizes and transforms the way people bank and shop. The Company’s integrated solutions connect digital and physical channels conveniently, securely and efficiently for millions of consumers every day. As an innovation partner for nearly all of the world's top 100 financial institutions and a majority of the top 25 global retailers, the Company delivers unparalleled services and technology that power the daily operations and consumer experience of banks and retailers around the world. The Company has a presence in more than 100 countries with approximately 23,000 employees worldwide. 



Strategy





DN Now Transformation Activities





•Transitioning to a streamlined and customer-centric operating model



•Implementing a services modernization plan which focuses on upgrading certain customer touchpoints, automating incident reporting and response, and standardizing service offerings and internal processes



•Streamlining the product range of ATMs and manufacturing footprint



•Improving working capital management through greater focus and efficiency of payables, receivables and inventory



•Reducing administrative expenses, including finance, IT and real estate



•Increasing sales productivity through improved solution selling, coverage and compensation arrangements



•Standardizing back-office processes to automate reporting and better manage risks



•Optimizing the portfolio of businesses to improve overall profitability



Management's Discussion and Analysis of 



Financial Condition and Results of Operations as of March 31, 2019



DIEBOLD NIXDORF, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES







These work streams are designed to improve the Company’s profitability and net leverage while establishing a foundation for future growth. The gross annualized savings target for DN Now is approximately $400 through 2021, of which $160 is anticipated to be realized during 2019. In order to achieve these savings, the Company has and will continue to restructure the workforce, integrate and optimize systems and processes, transition workloads to lower cost locations and consolidate real estate holdings. By executing on these and other operational improvement activities, the Company expects to increase customer intimacy and satisfaction, while providing career enrichment opportunities for employees and enhancing value for shareholders.



Segments



The Company’s operating structure is focused on its two customer segments - Banking and Retail. Leveraging a broad portfolio of solutions, the Company offers customers the flexibility to purchase the combination of services, software and systems that drive the most value to their business. 



For example, the Company offers end-to-end branch and store automation solutions that consist of the complete value chain of consult, design, build and operate. Branch and store automation helps financial institutions and retailers grow revenue, reduce costs, and increase convenience and security for their customers by migrating routine transactions, typically done inside the branch or store, to lower-cost automated channels. The Company’s advisory services team collaborates with its clients to define the ideal customer experience, modify processes, refine existing staffing models and deploy technologies that meet business objectives.



Banking



The Company provides integrated solutions for financial institutions of all sizes designed to help drive operational efficiencies, differentiate the consumer experience, grow revenue and manage risk. Banking operations are managed within two geographic regions. The Eurasia region includes the developed economies of Western Europe as well as the emerging economies of Eastern Europe, Asia, the Middle East and Africa. The Americas region encompasses the United States (U.S.), Canada, Mexico and Latin America.



For banking clients, services represents the largest operational component of the Company. Diebold Nixdorf AllConnect Services was launched in 2018 to power the business operations of financial institutions of all sizes. This as-a-service offering provides financial institutions with the capabilities and technology needed to make physical distribution channels as agile, integrated, efficient and differentiated as their digital counterparts by leveraging a data-driven Internet of Things (IoT) infrastructure. The Company’s product-related services resolve incidents through remote service capabilities or an on-site visit. The portfolio includes first and second line maintenance, preventive maintenance, “on-demand” and total implementation services. 



Managed services and outsourcing consists of managing the end-to-end business processes, technology integration and day-to-day operation of the self-service channel and the bank branch. Our integrated business solutions include self-service fleet management, branch life-cycle management and ATM as-a-service capabilities.



From a product perspective, the banking portfolio consists of cash recyclers and dispensers, intelligent deposit terminals, teller automation and kiosk technologies, as well as physical security solutions. The Company assists financial institutions to increase the functionality, availability and security within their ATM fleet. 



The Company’s software encompasses front-end applications for consumer connection points as well as back-end platforms which manage channel transactions, operations and integration. These hardware-agnostic software applications facilitate millions of transactions via ATMs, kiosks, and other self-service devices, as well as via online and mobile digital channels. 



In 2017, the Company introduced DN Vynamic™ Software, the first end-to-end Connected Commerce software portfolio in the banking marketplace designed to simplify and enhance the consumer experience. In addition, DN Vynamic suite's open application program interface (API) architecture is built to simplify operations by eliminating the traditional focus on internal silos and enabling tomorrow's inter-connected partnerships between financial institutions and payment providers. In addition, with a shared analytic and transaction engine, the DN Vynamic platform can generate new insights to enhance operations across any channel - putting consumer preferences, not the technology, at the heart of the experience. 



Management's Discussion and Analysis of 



Financial Condition and Results of Operations as of March 31, 2019



DIEBOLD NIXDORF, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES







An important enabler of the Company’s software offerings is the professional service employees who provide systems integration, customization, project management and consulting. The Company's advisory services team collaborates with customers to refine the end-user experience, improve business processes, refine existing staffing models and deploy technology to automate both branches and stores.



Retail



The Company’s comprehensive portfolio of retail solutions, software and services improves the checkout process for retailers while enhancing shopping experiences for consumers.







Service personnel supervise store openings, renewals and transformation projects, with attention to local details and customers’ global IT infrastructure.





Business Drivers





•Demand for services on distributed IT assets such as ATMs, POS and SCO, including managed services and professional services;





•Demand for software products and professional services;



•Demand for security products and services for the financial, retail and commercial sectors;



•Demand for innovative technology in connection with the Company's Connected Commerce strategy;



•Integration of sales force, business processes, procurement, and internal IT systems; and



•Realization of cost reductions, which leverage the Company's global scale, reduce overlap and improve operating efficiencies.



Management's Discussion and Analysis of 



Financial Condition and Results of Operations as of March 31, 2019



DIEBOLD NIXDORF, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES







Results of Operations



The following discussion of the Company’s financial condition and results of operations provides information that will assist in understanding the financial statements and the changes in certain key items in those financial statements. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes that appear elsewhere in this quarterly report on Form 10-Q.



Net Sales









Three months ended March 31, 2019 compared with three months ended March 31, 2018 





Segments







Management's Discussion and Analysis of 



Financial Condition and Results of Operations as of March 31, 2019



DIEBOLD NIXDORF, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES









Gross Profit







Services gross margin increased 0.5 percent in the three months ended March 31, 2019, favorably impacted by lower restructuring charges of $0.5 and lower non-routine charges of $2.2 primarily related to a gain on a spare parts inventory provision in 2019 and integration costs in 2018. Excluding restructuring and non-routine charges, services gross margin was relatively flat as services margin increases in the Eurasia banking segment related to the favorable impact of the services modernization initiatives and favorable customer mix were offset by higher software cost in both the Americas banking and retail segments. 



Product gross margin increased 3.3 percent in the three months ended March 31, 2019, favorably impacted by lower restructuring charges of $0.6 and lower non-routine charges of $4.6 primarily related to lower purchase accounting adjustments of amortization and gain on a product inventory provision, partially offset by the reversal of the Brazil indirect tax in the prior year. Excluding the impact of restructuring and non-routine charges, products gross margin increased 1.9 percent due primarily to higher volume and a more favorable solution mix in North America. Additionally, product gross margin improved from a favorable banking customer mix in Eurasia and Latin America, partially offset by increased software cost throughout the segments.



Operating Expenses









Selling and administrative expense in the three months ended March 31, 2019 increased $0.4 including higher incremental restructuring of $0.9 and non-routine charges of $6.1. Excluding the impact of restructuring, non-routine charges and a net favorable currency impact of $8.9, mostly related to the euro, selling and administrative expense increased $2.3, primarily from higher 



Management's Discussion and Analysis of 



Financial Condition and Results of Operations as of March 31, 2019



DIEBOLD NIXDORF, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES







expense related to the mark-to-market adjustment of the legacy Wincor Nixdorf stock option program of $6.4 in addition to higher U.S. based associate related expense. These increases are mostly offset by cost reduction initiatives and restructuring programs across the segments tied to the DN Now program.



Non-routine cost in selling and administrative expense was $44.5 in the three months ended March 31, 2019, an increase of $6.1 compared to the prior year. Higher non-routine cost consisted of increased legal and consulting expense of $20.5 inclusive of $5.6 related to the squeeze out real estate tax, and $3.0 related to a one-time non-cash accounts receivable discount in Brazil. These increases were partially offset by lower integration expense of $14.6 and purchase accounting adjustments of $2.6. Selling and administrative expense included restructuring charges of $2.2, or $0.9 higher than the prior year, related to the workforce alignment under the DN Now plan.



Research, development and engineering expense in the three months ended March 31, 2019 decreased $4.8 including a net favorable currency impact of $2.3, primarily related to the euro. Excluding the impact of currency, Research, development and engineering expense decreased $2.5 due primarily from streamlining ATM portfolio as well as lower headcount tied to the Company’s DN Now restructuring program, partially offset by increased software development cost.



Loss of $3.4 on sale of assets recorded in the three months ended March 31, 2019 includes the loss on divestitures of the Venezuela business of $4.1 and a Eurasia non-core business of $2.8, partially offset by a gain on the liquidation of a separate Eurasia non-core business of $3.5. The gain of $7.7 in the prior year was primarily related to the sale of a building in North America of $4.5 and the liquidation of the Barbados operating entity of $3.3.



Operating expense as a percent of net sales in the three months ended March 31, 2019 increased 1.5 percent to 26.1 percent compared to the same period in 2018 due in part to gains on sale of a building in North America and the impact of divestitures as well as lower net sales, partially offset by lower hardware development expense.



Operating Loss







The operating loss increased in the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018 including an unfavorable currency impact of $0.8, related primarily to the euro and higher non-routine charges. Excluding the impact of currency and non-routine charges, operating profit increased $13.0 primarily related to higher product gross profit in the Americas and Eurasia banking segments from large roll out and upgrade projects.



Other Income (Expense)









Interest income in the three months ended March 31, 2019 decreased $0.6 compared with the same period in 2018, primarily as a result of overall lower average investment balances in Brazil. Interest expense increased $24.9 compared to the same prior-year 



Management's Discussion and Analysis of 



Financial Condition and Results of Operations as of March 31, 2019



DIEBOLD NIXDORF, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES







period due to the acquisition of the additional $650.0 of Term Loan A-1 Facility debt with higher incremental interest rates and related fee amortization. Foreign exchange gain increased $4.2 primarily as a result of the currency devaluation in Venezuela operating entity in the current year. Miscellaneous net, decreased $1.3 in the three months ended March 31, 2019, unfavorably impacted by higher costs and lower benefits associated with the company owned life insurance.



Net Loss









The loss before taxes and net loss increased primarily due to the reasons described above. Net loss was also impacted by the change in the income tax expense.



The effective tax rate on loss from continuing operations was (85.0) percent for the three months ended March 31, 2019. The expense on the loss is due primarily to the tax impacts of the Tax Act on the estimated projected tax rate. More specifically, the impacts of the GILTI and BEAT. In addition, the Company collapsed its Barbados structure to meet the debt covenant requirements from our lenders during the quarter which resulted in additional discrete tax expense which is being offset in part by the valuation allowance release relating to the Company’s nondeductible interest expense resulting in no additional cash taxes. The above items noted as well as the Company’s jurisdictional income (loss) mix and varying respective statutory rates are the primary drivers of the quarterly tax rate. 



The effective tax rate on the net loss was (40.4) percent for the three months ended March 31, 2018. The expense on the loss is due primarily from impacts related to GILTI on the estimated annual tax rate.



Segment Net Sales and Operating Profit Summary







Eurasia Banking net sales decreased $52.5 including a net unfavorable currency impact of $35.7 related primarily to the euro. Excluding currency, net sales decreased $16.8 as services revenue decreased primarily from a maintenance contract roll off with a particular customer in India as well as lower products volume in various Asia Pacific countries, most notably in Taiwan from prior year non-recurring project volume. Additionally, software revenue decreased slightly from a non-core business and in Germany. These decreases were partially offset by increased unit replacements in Germany related to Windows 10 upgrades.



Segment operating profit increased $14.2 in the three months ended March 31, 2019, including a net unfavorable currency impact of $4.5, primarily due to the euro. Excluding the impact of currency, operating profit increased $18.7 due in part to higher gross profit on services and products margin improvements. The favorable services margin was primarily attributable to the services modernization program which benefited numerous countries in Europe and Asia, while products margin also benefited from DN 



Management's Discussion and Analysis of 



Financial Condition and Results of Operations as of March 31, 2019



DIEBOLD NIXDORF, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES







Now initiatives as well as higher volume in Germany. Additionally, segment operating profit benefited from lower operating expenses tied to DN Now initiatives, restructuring programs and the phase out of non-profitable service contracts in India.



Segment operating profit margin increased 4.3 percent from lower operating expense, as well as higher services and products gross margin, primarily attributable to DN Now initiatives.





Americas Banking net sales increased $29.0 including a net unfavorable currency impact of $5.9 related to the Brazil real. Excluding currency, net sales increased $34.9 primarily due to increased installation volume in Canada and the U.S. as well as improved supply chain management in North America. Increased products volume in the Latin America distributor business, Chile and Ecuador drove higher revenue as well as software license volume in Brazil. Partially offsetting these increases, services revenue declined from lower billed work activity and maintenance contract volume in the U.S.



Segment operating profit increased $13.5 mostly from DN Now initiatives favorably impacting both operating expense and gross profit. Additionally, gross profit was favorably impacted by current large product refresh projects in Canada and higher volume in Latin America as well as increased volume in the U.S., as the prior year was unfavorably impacted by supply chain delays. Higher software cost in 2019 partially offset these increases.



Segment operating profit margin increased 3.6 percent, primarily as a result of higher product gross margin, in addition to lower cost related to the DN Now initiatives. 





Retail net sales decreased $12.6 including a net unfavorable currency impact of $24.0 mostly related to the euro. Excluding currency, net sales increased $11.4 primarily from large POS system roll outs in Germany and the U.K. in addition to increased kiosk volume in North America, partially offset by lower software and service volume across the EMEA region. 



Segment operating profit decreased $2.1 including a net unfavorable currency impact of $1.6. Excluding the impact of currency, segment operating profit decreased $0.5 as lower operating expense tied to DN Now initiatives were more than offset by lower software volume and unfavorable software solutions mix as well as under-performance of the Eurasia non-core business. Additionally, products gross profit was relatively flat from increased volume to an unfavorable solution mix in North America and EMEA.



Segment operating profit margin decreased 0.6 percent as lower operating expense tied to the DN Now initiatives, was more than offset by lower software and product gross margin on an unfavorable solution mix.



Management's Discussion and Analysis of 



Financial Condition and Results of Operations as of March 31, 2019



DIEBOLD NIXDORF, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES







Liquidity and Capital Resources













Operating Activities



Cash flows from operating activities can fluctuate significantly from period to period as working capital needs and the timing of payments for income taxes, restructuring and integration activities, pension funding and other items impact reported cash flows. Net cash used by operating activities was $57.1 for the three months ended March 31, 2019, a decrease in use of $85.2 from $142.3 for the same period in 2018.



•Cash flows from operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018 were impacted by a $66.3 increase in net loss. Refer to the Results of Operations discussed above for further discussion of the Company's net loss.





Management's Discussion and Analysis of 



Financial Condition and Results of Operations as of March 31, 2019



DIEBOLD NIXDORF, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES









Depreciation and amortization expense decreased $6.0 to $58.4 during the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to $64.4 during the same period in 2018 primarily due to a reduction in capital spend. Share-based compensation decreased $4.4 to $9.3 for the three months ended March 31, 2019 primarily due to a reduction in shares awarded in 2019.



Investing Activities



The maturities and purchases of investments primarily relate to short-term investment activity in Brazil. The $44.7 change was primarily due to a reduction in utilization of short-term investments in Brazil for cash needs.



Financing Activities



Net cash used by financing activities was $13.9 and $91.4 for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, a decrease of $77.5. The change was primarily due a decrease in net borrowings (repayments) under the Company's revolving facility and the reduction in dividend payments. The decreases in use were partially offset by $10.5 in higher cash distributions related to the redemption of shares and cash compensation to Diebold Nixdorf AG minority shareholders of $11.0 for the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to $0.5 in the prior-year period.



Refer to note 11 for additional information regarding the Company's debt obligations. As defined by the Company's credit agreement, the ratio of net debt to trailing 12 months adjusted EBITDA was 5.7 times as of March 31, 2019.



Refer to note 17 for additional information regarding the Company's hedging and derivative instruments.



Dividends The Company paid dividends of $7.7 in the three months ended March 31, 2018. In May 2018, the Company announced its decision to reallocate future dividend funds towards debt reduction and other capital resource needs. As a result, there was no quarterly dividend for the three months ended March 31, 2019. The quarterly dividend was $0.10 per share for the three months ended March 31, 2018.



Contractual Obligations In the first quarter of 2019, the Company entered into purchase commitments due within one year for materials through contract manufacturing agreements for a total negotiated price. At March 31, 2019, the Company had purchase commitments due within one year totaling $0.1 for materials through contract manufacturing agreements at negotiated prices.



Except for the items noted above, all contractual cash obligations with initial and remaining terms in excess of one year and contingent liabilities remained generally unchanged at March 31, 2019 compared to December 31, 2018.



Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company enters into various arrangements not recognized in the condensed consolidated balance sheets that have or could have an effect on its financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. The principal off-balance sheet arrangements that the Company enters into are guarantees, operating leases and sales of finance receivables. The Company provides its global operations guarantees and standby letters of credit through various financial institutions to suppliers, customers, regulatory agencies and insurance providers. If the Company is not able to make payment, the suppliers, customers, regulatory agencies and insurance providers may draw on the pertinent bank. Refer to note 9 for further details of guarantees. The Company has sold finance receivables to financial institutions while continuing to service the receivables. The records these sales by removing finance receivables from the condensed consolidated balance sheets and recording gains and losses in the condensed consolidated statements of operations.



Management's Discussion and Analysis of 



Financial Condition and Results of Operations as of March 31, 2019



DIEBOLD NIXDORF, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES







Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates



Management’s discussion and analysis of the Company’s financial condition and results of operations are based upon the Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions about future events. These estimates and the underlying assumptions affect the amounts of assets and liabilities reported, disclosures about contingent assets and liabilities and reported amounts of revenues and expenses. Such estimates include revenue recognition, the valuation of trade, finance lease receivables, inventories, goodwill, intangible assets, other long-lived assets, legal contingencies, guarantee obligations and assumptions used in the calculation of income taxes, pension and post-retirement benefits and customer incentives, among others. These estimates and assumptions are based on management’s best estimates and judgment. Management evaluates its estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis using historical experience and other factors. Management monitors the economic conditions and other factors and will adjust such estimates and assumptions when facts and circumstances dictate. As future events and their effects cannot be determined with precision, actual results could differ significantly from these estimates. 



In addition to the items that the Company disclosed as its critical accounting policies and estimates in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, the company adopted ASU 2016-02 and its subsequent amendments related to lease accounting. The standard requires that a lessee recognize on its balance sheet right-of-use assets and corresponding liabilities resulting from leasing transactions, as well as additional financial statement disclosures. Previously, U.S. GAAP only required balance sheet recognition for leases classified as capital leases. The provisions of this update apply to substantially all leased assets. Subsequent ASUs related to this standard are updates, which prescribe a practical expedient for implementation and narrow-scope improvements for lessors. For more information regarding the implementation of this standard, refer to note 2.



Forward-Looking Statement Disclosure



In this quarterly report on Form 10-Q, statements that are not reported financial results or other historical information are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements give current expectations or forecasts of future events and are not guarantees of future performance. These forward-looking statements relate to, among other things, the Company's future operating performance, the Company's share of new and existing markets, the Company's short- and long-term revenue and earnings growth rates, and the Company's implementation of cost-reduction initiatives and measures to improve pricing, including the optimization of the Company's manufacturing capacity.



The use of the words “will,” “believes,” “anticipates,” “expects,” “intends” and similar expressions is intended to identify forward-looking statements that have been made and may in the future be made by or on behalf of the Company. Although the Company believes that these forward-looking statements are based upon reasonable assumptions regarding, among other things, the economy, its knowledge of its business, and on key performance indicators that impact the Company, these forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by the forward-looking statements. The Company is not obligated to update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 



Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. Some of the risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to:



•the ultimate impact of the DPLTA with Diebold Nixdorf AG and the outcome of the appraisal proceedings initiated in connection with the implementation of the DPLTA;



•the ultimate outcome and results of integrating the operations of the Company and Diebold Nixdorf AG;



•the Company's ability to achieve benefits from its cost-reduction initiatives and other strategic initiatives, such as DN Now, including its planned restructuring actions, as well as its business process outsourcing initiative;



•the Company's ability to comply with the covenants contained in the agreements governing its debt;



•the ultimate outcome of the Company’s pricing, operating and tax strategies applied to Diebold Nixdorf AG and the ultimate ability to realize cost reductions and synergies;



•the Company's ability to successfully operate its strategic alliances in China;



•changes in political, economic or other factors such as currency exchange rates, inflation rates, recessionary or expansive trends, taxes and regulations and laws affecting the worldwide business in each of the Company's operations;



•the Company’s reliance on suppliers and any potential disruption to the Company’s global supply chain; 





•interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, including the impact of possible currency devaluations in countries experiencing high inflation rates;



•the acceptance of the Company's product and technology introductions in the marketplace;



•competitive pressures, including pricing pressures and technological developments;





•the effect of legislative and regulatory actions in the U.S. and internationally and the Company’s ability to comply with government regulations;



•the impact of a security breach or operational failure on the Company's business;



•the Company's ability to successfully integrate other acquisitions into its operations;





•the Company's ability to maintain effective internal controls;



•changes in the Company's intention to further repatriate cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments residing in international tax jurisdictions, which could negatively impact foreign and domestic taxes;





•the investment performance of the Company's pension plan assets, which could require the Company to increase its pension contributions, and significant changes in healthcare costs, including those that may result from government action; and



Management's Discussion and Analysis of 



Financial Condition and Results of Operations as of March 31, 2019



DIEBOLD NIXDORF, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES







•the amount and timing of repurchases of the Company's common shares, if any. 



Except to the extent required by applicable law or regulation, the Company undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.



Item 2: Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds











