fls.txt



item1.txt
More than 35 years ago, Logitech created products to improve experiences around the personal PC platform, and today it is a multi-brand, multi-category company designing products that enable better experiences consuming, sharing and creating any digital content such as music, gaming, video and computing, whether it is on a computer, mobile device or in the cloud.
The Company sells its products to a broad network of domestic and international customers, including direct sales to retailers and e-tailers and indirect sales through distributors.
Shares of Logitech International S.A. are listed on both the SIX Swiss Exchange under the trading symbol LOGN and the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the trading symbol LOGI.
The condensed consolidated financial statements are presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”) for interim financial information and therefore do not include all the information required by GAAP for complete financial statements.
The condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019, included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on May 17, 2019.
In the opinion of management, these condensed consolidated financial statements include all adjustments, consisting of only normal and recurring adjustments, necessary and in all material aspects, for a fair statement of the results of operations, comprehensive income, financial position, cash flows and changes in shareholders' equity for the periods presented.
Operating results for the three and six months ended September 30, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2020, or any future periods.
Other than the recent accounting pronouncements adopted and discussed below under Recent Accounting Pronouncements Adopted and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, there have been no changes in the Company’s significant accounting policies during the six months ended September 30, 2019 compared with the significant accounting policies described in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the condensed consolidated financial statements.
2016-02, "Leases (Topic 842)" (ASU 2016-02 or Topic 842), which requires a lessee to recognize right-of-use (ROU) assets and lease liabilities arising from operating and financing leases with terms longer than 12 months on the consolidated balance sheets and to disclose key information about leasing arrangements.
The Company elected the package of transitional practical expedients, which among other provisions, allows the Company to not reassess under the new standard the Company's prior conclusions about lease identification, lease classification and initial direct cost, for any existing leases on the adoption date.
Adoption of the standard resulted in the recognition of $31.3 million of ROU assets and $37.4 million of lease liabilities related to the Company's leases on its condensed consolidated balance sheet on April 1, 2019.
The adoption of the standard did not have an impact on our condensed consolidated statement of operations, comprehensive income, changes in shareholders' equity or cash flows.
Share equivalents attributable to outstanding stock options, restricted stock units ("RSUs") and employee share purchase rights (ESPP) totaling 1.9 million and 0.8 million for the three months ended  September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and 2.0 million and 1.2 million for the six months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, were excluded from the calculation of diluted net income per share because the combined exercise price and average unamortized grant date fair value upon exercise of these options and ESPP or vesting of RSUs were greater than the average market price of the Company's shares during the periods presented herein, and therefore their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive.


item2.txt
More than 35 years ago, Logitech created products to improve experiences around the personal PC platform, and today it is a multi-brand, multi-category company designing products that enable better experiences consuming, sharing and creating any digital content such as music, gaming, video and computing, whether it is on a computer, mobile device or in the cloud.
On September 26, 2019, we entered into an agreement to acquire all equity interests of General Workings, Inc. ("Streamlabs") for a total consideration of $89 million in cash, subject to a working capital adjustment, plus an additional earn-out of up to $29 million in stock based on the achievement of certain net revenues for the period beginning on January 1, 2020 and ending on June 30, 2020 (the "Streamlabs Acquisition").
Our sales for the three months ended September 30, 2019 increased 5%, 6%, and 1% in the Americas, EMEA, and Asia Pacific, respectively, compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year.
Our sales for the six months ended September 30, 2019 increased 5%, 8%, and 1% in the Americas, EMEA, and Asia Pacific, respectively, compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
proceedings against us, whether meritorious or not, can have an adverse impact because of defense costs, diversion of management and operational resources, negative publicity and other factors.
•We must incur a large portion of our costs in advance of sales orders because we must plan research and production, order components, buy tooling equipment, and enter into development, sales and marketing, and other operating commitments prior to obtaining firm commitments from our customers.
This makes it difficult for us to rapidly adjust our costs during the quarter in response to a revenue shortfall, which could adversely affect our operating results.
•We have attempted to simplify our organization, to reduce operating costs through expense reduction and global workforce reductions, to reduce the complexity of our product portfolio, and to better align costs with our current business as we expand from PC accessories to growth opportunities in accessories and other products for music, gaming, video collaboration, digital home, mobile devices and other product categories.
However, over short periods of time, during periods of weakness in consumer spending or given high levels of competition in many product categories, our ability to change local currency prices to offset the impact of currency fluctuations is limited.
result, we must continually innovate in our new and existing product categories, introduce new products and technologies, and enhance existing products in order to remain competitive.
In addition, if we do not continue to differentiate our products through distinctive, technologically advanced features, designs, and services that are appealing to our customers and consumers, as well as continue to build and strengthen our brand recognition and our access to distribution channels, our business could be adversely affected.
As we introduce new or enhanced products, integrate new technology into new or existing products, or reduce the overall number of products offered, we face risks including, among other things, disruption in customers’ ordering patterns, excessive levels of new and existing product inventories, revenue deterioration in our existing product lines, insufficient supplies of new products to meet customers’ demand, possible product and technology defects, and a potentially different sales and support environment.
Consumer demand for PCs, especially in our traditional, mature markets such as North America, Western and Nordic Europe, Japan and Australia, has been declining or flat for several years, and such trends may continue in the future.
This has put pressure on consumer demand for PC peripherals in many of our markets and may cause sales growth of our PC peripherals to slow and, in some cases, decline.


