Item 4.
Controls and Procedures

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

The Company's management, with the participation of the Company's Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, has evaluated the effectiveness of the Company's disclosure controls and procedures (as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(e) or Rule 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act")) as of the end of the period covered by this report.
Based on such evaluation, the Company's management, including the Company's Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, has concluded that, as of the end of such period, the Company's disclosure controls and procedures were effective in recording, processing, summarizing and reporting, on a timely basis, information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act, and that information is accumulated and communicated to the Company's management, including the Company's Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely discussions regarding required disclosure.
Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting

There have been no changes in the Company's internal control over financial reporting during the three months ended June 30, 2018 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company's internal control over financial reporting.
Legal Proceedings

The information set forth in Note 11 (Commitments and Contingencies) to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 "Financial Statements", of this Form 10-Q is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors

See "Risk Factors" in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds

Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities

None.
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities




Item 3.
Defaults Upon Senior Securities

None.
Item 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures

Not applicable.
Item 5.
Other Information

None.
Item 6.
Exhibits 





SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
