Item 2.
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Unless otherwise indicated or the context otherwise requires, as used in this "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," the terms "we," "us," "the Company," "our," "CDW" and similar terms refer to CDW Corporation and its subsidiaries.
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" should be read in conjunction with the unaudited interim Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this report and with the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
This discussion contains forward-looking statements that are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties.
Actual results may differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements.
See "Forward-Looking Statements" at the end of this discussion.
Overview
CDW Corporation ("Parent") is a Fortune 500 company and a leading provider of integrated information technology ("IT") solutions to small, medium and large business, and government, education and healthcare customers in the United States ("US"), the United Kingdom ("UK") and Canada.
Our broad array of offerings ranges from discrete hardware and software products to integrated IT solutions such as mobility, security, data center optimization, cloud computing, virtualization and collaboration.
We are technology "agnostic," with a portfolio including more than 100,000 products and services from more than 1,000 leading and emerging brands.
Our solutions are delivered in physical, virtual and cloud-based environments through over 6,000 customer-facing coworkers, including sellers, highly-skilled technology specialists and advanced service delivery engineers.
We are a leading sales channel partner for many original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"), software publishers and cloud providers (collectively, our "vendor partners"), whose products we sell or include in the solutions we offer.
We provide our vendor partners with a cost-effective way to reach customers and deliver a consistent brand experience through our established end-market coverage, technical expertise and extensive customer access.
Effective January 1, 2018, we adopted the requirements of ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, as amended ("Topic 606"), utilizing the full retrospective method as discussed in Note 2 (Recent Accounting Pronouncements) to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements.
Prior period amounts have been adjusted accordingly.
Key factors affecting our financial performance
•General economic conditions are a key factor affecting our results as they impact our customers’ willingness to spend on information technology.
This is particularly the case for business customers, as their purchases tend to reflect confidence in their business prospects, which are driven by their perceptions of business conditions.
Purchasing behavior may be different between our Corporate customers and Small Business customers due to their perception of business conditions.
Additionally, changes in trade policy and product constraints from suppliers could have an adverse impact on our business.
•Changes in spending policies, budget priorities and funding levels are a key factor influencing the purchasing levels of government, healthcare and education customers.
•Technology trends drive customer purchasing behaviors in the market.
Current technology trends are focused on delivering greater flexibility and efficiency, as well as designing IT securely.
These trends are driving customer adoption of solutions such as those delivered via cloud, software defined architectures and hybrid on-premise and off-premise combinations.
Key business metrics
We monitor a number of financial and non-financial measures and ratios on a regular basis in order to track the progress of our business and make adjustments as necessary.
We believe that the most important of these measures and ratios include average daily sales, gross margin, operating margin, Net income, Non-GAAP income before income taxes, Non-GAAP net income, Net income per common share, Non-GAAP net income per diluted share, EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA margin, free cash flow, return on working capital, Cash and cash equivalents, net working capital, cash conversion cycle (defined to be days of sales outstanding in Accounts receivable plus days of supply in Inventory minus days of purchases outstanding in Accounts payable, based on a rolling three-month average), debt levels including available credit and leverage ratios, sales per coworker and coworker turnover.
These measures and ratios are compared to standards or objectives set by management, so that actions can be taken, as necessary, in order to achieve the standards and objectives.
In this Form 10-Q, we discuss Non-GAAP income before income taxes, Non-GAAP net income, Non-GAAP net income per diluted share, EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin, which are non-GAAP financial measures.
We believe these measures provide analysts, investors and management with helpful information regarding the underlying operating performance of our business, as they remove the impact of items that management believes are not reflective of underlying operating performance.
Management uses these measures to evaluate period-over-period performance as management believes they provide a more comparable measure of the underlying business.
Additionally, Adjusted EBITDA is a measure in the credit agreement governing our Senior Secured Term Loan Facility ("Term Loan"), which is used to evaluate our ability to make certain investments, incur additional debt, and make restricted payments, such as dividends and share repurchases, as well as whether we are required to make additional principal prepayments on the Term Loan beyond the quarterly amortization payments.
For further details regarding the Term Loan, see Long-Term Debt and Financing Arrangements within Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 6 (Long-Term Debt) to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements.
For the definitions of Non-GAAP income before income taxes, Non-GAAP net income and Adjusted EBITDA and reconciliations to Net income, see "Results of Operations."
Results of Operations
Three Months Ended September 30, 2018 Compared to Three Months Ended September 30, 2017
Net sales
Total Net sales for the three months ended September 30, 2018 increased $440 million, or 11.2%, to $4,373 million, compared to $3,933 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017.
Excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, constant currency Net sales growth was 11.4%.
See "Non-GAAP Financial Measure Reconciliations" below for additional information regarding constant currency Net sales growth.
For the three months ended September 30, 2018, Net sales growth reflected balanced growth across transactions and solutions.
Transactional growth was primarily driven by client devices.
Solutions growth was driven primarily by software, servers, networking and enterprise storage.
Additionally, strong results from our international operations contributed to our Net sales growth.
Corporate segment Net sales for the three months ended September 30, 2018 increased $154 million, or 9.9%, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2017.
Growth was primarily driven by client device refresh.
Small Business segment Net sales for the three months ended September 30, 2018 increased by $35 million, or 11.3%, between periods.
Sales growth was primarily driven by solutions growth, including software.
Net sales in Other, which is comprised of results from our UK and Canadian operations, for the three months ended September 30, 2018 increased $71 million, or 18.5%, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2017.
Both operations grew in local currency and continued to take share in their respective local markets.
In addition, UK growth was driven in part by referral business for US-based customers.
The impact of foreign currency exchange decreased Other sales growth by approximately 200 basis points, due primarily to the unfavorable impact resulting from the Canadian dollar to US dollar translation.
Gross profit
Gross profit increased $72 million, or 11.1%, to $714 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018, compared to $642 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017.
As a percentage of Net sales, Gross profit margin remained flat versus prior year at 16.3% for the three months ended September 30, 2018.
Gross profit margin was positively impacted by product margin improvement.
This was offset by year-over-year Net sales growth out-pacing the year-over-year growth rate in partner funding.
Selling and administrative expenses
Selling and administrative expenses increased $39 million, or 11.0%, to $391 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018, compared to $352 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017.
The increase was driven by higher sales payroll costs, including sales commissions consistent with higher Gross profit dollars, higher coworker costs driven by attainment for performance-based compensation and strategic investments funded by tax reform.
Total coworker count was 8,937, up 215 from 8,722 at September 30, 2017.
Total coworker count was 8,726 at December 31, 2017.
As a percentage of total Net sales, Selling and administrative expenses remained flat at 8.9% for the three months ended September 30, 2018.
Income from operations
Income from operations was $275 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018, an increase of $31 million, or 12.6%, compared to $244 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017.
Income from operations increased primarily due to higher gross profit dollars, partially offset by higher sales payroll expenses and higher coworker costs due to higher attainment for performance-based compensation.
Total operating margin percentage increased 10 basis points to 6.3% for the three months ended September 30, 2018, from 6.2% for the three months ended September 30, 2017.
Corporate segment income from operations was $127 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018, an increase of $5 million, or 4.1%, compared to $122 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017.
Corporate segment income from operations increased primarily due to higher gross profit dollars, partially offset by higher sales payroll expenses and coworker costs due to higher attainment for performance-based compensation.
Corporate segment operating margin percentage decreased 30 basis points to 7.5% for the three months ended September 30, 2018, from 7.8% for the three months ended September 30,
2017.
This decrease in operating margin percentage was primarily driven by product margin compression due to increased hardware sales and higher coworker costs due to higher attainment for performance-based compensation as a percentage of Net sales.
Small Business segment income from operations was $24 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018, an increase of $6 million, or 36.1%, compared to $18 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017.
Small business segment income from operations increased primarily due to higher gross profit dollars.
Small Business segment operating margin percentage increased 130 basis points to 7.1% for the three months ended September 30, 2018, from 5.8% for the three months ended September 30, 2017.
This increase in operating margin percentage was primarily driven by higher product margin, partially offset by higher sales payroll expenses and coworker costs due to higher attainment for performance-based compensation as a percentage of Net sales.
Public segment income from operations was $138 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018, an increase of $16 million, or 12.9%, compared to $122 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017.
Public segment income from operations increased primarily due to higher gross profit dollars.
Public segment operating margin percentage increased 20 basis points to 7.4% for the three months ended September 30, 2018, from 7.2% for the three months ended September 30, 2017.
This increase in operating margin percentage was primarily driven by higher product margin, partially offset by higher coworker costs due to higher attainment for performance-based compensation as a percentage of Net sales.
Other income from operations was $19 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018, an increase of $5 million, or 34.5%, compared to $14 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017.
Other income from operations increased primarily due to higher gross profit dollars, partially offset by higher payroll expenses.
Other operating margin percentage increased 50 basis points to 4.2% for the three months ended September 30, 2018, from 3.7% for the three months ended September 30, 2017.
This increase was primarily driven by the mix of Net sales and lower intangible asset amortization as a percentage of Net sales, partially offset by higher equity-based compensation expense as a percentage of Net sales.
Income tax expense
Income tax expense was $55 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018, compared to $78 million for the same period of the prior year.
The effective income tax rate, expressed by calculating the income tax expense as a percentage of Income before income taxes, was 22.9% for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and differed from the US federal statutory rate of 21.0% primarily due to state income taxes partially offset by excess tax benefits on equity-based compensation.
The effective tax rate for the same period of the prior year was 37.5% and differed from the US federal statutory rate of 35.0% primarily due to state income taxes and additional expense as a result of a change in state tax rates enacted during the quarter, partially offset by excess tax benefits on equity-based compensation and a state tax refund.
The lower effective tax rate for the three months ended September 30, 2018 as compared to the same period of the prior year was primarily attributable to the reduction in the US federal statutory rate and higher excess tax benefits on equity-based compensation, partially offset by higher effective net state income tax rates primarily due to the reduced US federal benefit.
Non-GAAP Financial Measure Reconciliations
We have included reconciliations of Non-GAAP income before income taxes, Non-GAAP net income, EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA margin and consolidated Net sales growth on a constant currency basis for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 below.
Non-GAAP income before income taxes and Non-GAAP net income exclude, among other things, charges related to the amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, equity-based compensation and associated taxes, gains and losses from the extinguishment of debt and integration expenses.
EBITDA is defined as consolidated net income before interest expense, net, income tax expense, depreciation and amortization.
Adjusted EBITDA, which is a measure defined in our credit agreements, means EBITDA adjusted for certain items, which are described in the tables below.
Adjusted EBITDA margin is defined as Adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of Net sales.
Consolidated Net sales growth on a constant currency basis is defined as consolidated Net sales growth excluding the impact of foreign currency translation on net sales compared to the prior period.
Non-GAAP income before income taxes, Non-GAAP net income, EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA margin and consolidated Net sales growth on a constant currency basis are considered non-GAAP financial measures.
Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance or financial position that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally included or excluded in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP.
Non-GAAP measures used by management may differ from similar measures used by other companies, even when similar terms are used to identify such measures.
We believe these measures provide analysts, investors and management with helpful information regarding the underlying operating performance of our business, as they remove the impact of items that management believes are not reflective of underlying operating performance.
Management uses these measures to evaluate period-over-period performance as management believes they provide a more comparable measure of the underlying business.
Additionally, Adjusted EBITDA is a measure in the credit agreement governing our Term Loan used to evaluate our ability to make certain investments, incur additional debt, and make restricted payments, such as dividends and share repurchases, as well as whether we are required to make additional principal prepayments on the Term Loan beyond the quarterly amortization payments.
For further details regarding the Term Loan, see Note 6 (Long-Term Debt) to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements.
Non-GAAP net income
Non-GAAP net income was $218 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018, an increase of $50 million, or 29.3%, compared to $168 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017.
 Adjusted EBITDA
Adjusted EBITDA was $355 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018, an increase of $30 million, or 9.3%, compared to $325 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017.
As a percentage of Net sales, Adjusted EBITDA was 8.1% for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 8.3% for the three months ended September 30, 2017.
Consolidated net sales growth on constant currency basis
Consolidated Net sales increased $440 million, or 11.2%, to $4,373 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018, compared to $3,933 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017.
Consolidated Net sales on a constant currency basis, which excludes the impact of foreign currency translation, increased $447 million, or 11.4%.
Nine Months Overview
Results of Operations
Nine Months Ended September 30, 2018 Compared to Nine Months Ended September 30, 2017
Net sales
Total Net sales for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 increased $1,085 million, or 9.8%, to $12,166 million, compared to $11,081 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017.
Excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, constant currency Net sales growth was 9.3%.
See "Non-GAAP Financial Measure Reconciliations" below for additional information regarding constant currency Net sales growth.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2018, growth was driven by ongoing focus on client device refresh within hardware and strong growth from our international operations.
In addition, sales growth reflected both underlying demand for solutions, as well as the impact of the reversal associated with supply chain issues experienced at the end of 2017.
Corporate segment Net sales for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 increased $433 million, or 9.5% compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2017.
Growth was primarily driven by client device refresh, as well as continued success helping customers with solutions, including data center and software.
Small Business segment Net sales for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 increased by $85 million, or 9.3%, between periods.
Sales growth was primarily driven by client device refresh.
Net sales in Other, which is comprised of results from our UK and Canadian operations, for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 increased $308 million, or 27.6%, compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2017.
Both operations had strong growth in local currency as we continued to take share in the local markets.
In addition, UK growth was driven in part by increased sales from referrals for US-based customers.
The impact of foreign currency exchange increased Other sales growth by approximately 500 basis points, due to the favorable impact resulting from the British pound and Canadian dollar to US dollar translations.
Gross profit
Gross profit increased $176 million, or 9.6%, to $2,013 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to $1,837 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017.
As a percentage of Net sales, Gross profit margin decreased 10 basis points to 16.5% for the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
Gross profit margin was impacted by improved product margin, this was offset by year-over-year Net sales growth out-pacing the year-over-year growth rate in partner funding.
Selling and administrative expenses
Selling and administrative expenses increased $72 million, or 6.8%, to $1,135 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to $1,063 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017.
The increase was driven by higher sales payroll costs, including sales commissions primarily due to higher Gross profit dollars, higher coworker costs due to higher attainment of performance-based compensation and strategic investments funded by tax reform.
This was partially offset by lower equity-based compensation expense and the associated payroll taxes due to the prior year vesting of an equity grant made at the time of our initial public offering.
As a percentage of total Net sales, Selling and administrative expenses decreased 30 basis points to 9.3% during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, down from 9.6% in the nine months ended September 30, 2017.
Income from operations
Income from operations was $744 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, an increase of $98 million, or 15.2%, compared to $646 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017.
Income from operations increased primarily due to higher gross profit dollars, partially offset by higher sales payroll expenses and higher coworker costs due to higher attainment on performance-based compensation.
Total operating margin percentage increased 30 basis points to 6.1% for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, from 5.8% for the nine months ended September 30, 2017.
The increase was primarily due to lower equity-based compensation expense and the associated payroll taxes and intangible asset amortization as a percentage of Net sales, which do not trend in line with sales movement.
Corporate segment income from operations was $393 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, an increase of $32 million, or 8.9%, compared to $361 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017.
Corporate segment income from operations increased primarily due to higher gross profit dollars driven by higher sales.
Corporate segment operating margin
percentage remained flat to prior year at 7.9% for the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
The benefit from lower Selling and administrative expenses as a percentage of Net sales was offset by product margin compression due to increased hardware sales.
Small Business segment income from operations was $71 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, an increase of $17 million, or 32.1%, compared to $54 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017.
Small business segment income from operations increased primarily due to higher gross profit dollars.
Small Business segment operating margin percentage increased 120 basis points to 7.1% for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, from 5.9% for the nine months ended September 30, 2017.
This increase in operating margin percentage was primarily driven by higher product margin and the benefit of lower sales payroll expenses and intangible asset amortization expenses as a percentage of Net sales.
Public segment income from operations was $323 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, an increase of $35 million, or 12.2%, compared to $288 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017.
Public segment income from operations increased primarily due to higher gross profit dollars.
Public segment operating margin percentage increased 40 basis points to 6.8% for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, from 6.4% for the nine months ended September 30, 2017.
This increase in operating margin percentage was primarily driven by a higher product margin.
Other income from operations was $61 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, an increase of $21 million, or 53.7%, compared to $40 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017.
Other income from operations increased primarily due to higher gross profit dollars, partially offset by higher sales payroll expenses.
Foreign exchange translation also had a favorable impact on income from operations.
Other operating margin percentage increased 80 basis points to 4.3% for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, from 3.5% for the nine months ended September 30, 2017.
This increase was primarily due to lower sales payroll expenses and lower intangible asset amortization as a percentage of Net sales.
Net loss on extinguishments of long-term debt
During the nine months ended September 30, 2017, we incurred a net loss on extinguishment of long-term debt of $57 million.
For information regarding our debt, see Note 6 (Long-Term Debt) to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements.
Income tax expense
Income tax expense was $150 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to $148 million for the same period of the prior year.
The effective income tax rate, expressed by calculating the income tax expense as a percentage of Income before income taxes, was 23.7% for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and differed from the US federal statutory rate of 21.0% primarily due to state income taxes, partially offset by excess tax benefits on equity-based compensation.
The effective tax rate for the same period of the prior year was 31.1% and differed from the US federal statutory rate of 35.0% primarily due to excess tax benefits on equity-based compensation, partially offset by state taxes.
The lower effective tax rate for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 as compared to the same period of the prior year was primarily attributable to the reduction in the US federal statutory rate, partially offset by lower excess tax benefits on equity-based compensation and a higher effective net state income tax rate primarily due to the reduced US federal benefit.
Non-GAAP Financial Measure Reconciliations
We have included reconciliations of Non-GAAP income before income taxes, Non-GAAP net income, EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA margin and consolidated Net sales growth on a constant currency basis for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 below.
See the "Non-GAAP Financial Measure Reconciliations" section included above for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 for all Non-GAAP measure definitions.
Non-GAAP net income
Non-GAAP net income was $594 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, an increase of $141 million or 31.0% compared to $453 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017.
 Adjusted EBITDA
Adjusted EBITDA was $979 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, an increase of $90 million, or 10.1%, compared to $889 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017.
As a percentage of Net sales, Adjusted EBITDA was 8.0% for both the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017.
Consolidated net sales growth on constant currency basis
Consolidated Net sales increased $1,085 million, or 9.8%, to $12,166 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to $11,081 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017.
Consolidated Net sales on a constant currency basis, which excludes the impact of foreign currency translation, increased $1,038 million, or 9.3%.
Seasonality
While we have not historically experienced significant seasonality throughout the year, sales in our Corporate segment, which primarily serves US private sector business customers with more than 250 employees, are typically higher in the fourth quarter than in other quarters due to customers spending their remaining technology budget dollars at the end of the year.
Additionally, sales in our Public segment have historically been higher in the third quarter than in other quarters primarily due to the buying patterns of the federal government and education customers.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Overview
We finance our operations and capital expenditures with internally generated cash from operations.
As of September 30, 2018, we also have $1.1 billion of availability for borrowings under our senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility and an additional £45 million ($59 million at September 30, 2018) under the CDW UK revolving credit facility.
Our liquidity and borrowing plans are established to align with our financial and strategic planning processes and ensure we have the necessary funding to meet our operating commitments, which primarily include the purchase of inventory, payroll and general expenses.
We also take into consideration our overall capital allocation strategy, which includes investment for future growth, dividend payments, acquisitions and share repurchases.
We believe we have adequate sources of liquidity and funding available for at least the next year; however, there are a number of factors that may negatively impact our available sources of funds.
The amount of cash generated from operations will be dependent upon factors such as the successful execution of our business plan and general economic conditions.
Share Repurchase Program
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we repurchased 3.0 million shares of our common stock for $233 million under the previously announced share repurchase program.
For more information on our share repurchase program, see Part II, Item 2, Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
Dividends
On October 31, 2018, we announced that our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.295 per common share.
The dividend will be paid on December 10, 2018 to all stockholders of record as of the close of business on November 26, 2018.
The payment of any future dividends will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon our results of operations, financial condition, business prospects, capital requirements, contractual restrictions, any potential indebtedness we may incur, restrictions imposed by applicable law, tax considerations and other factors that our Board of Directors deems relevant.
In addition, our ability to pay dividends on our common stock will be limited by restrictions on our ability to pay dividends or make distributions to our stockholders and on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make distributions to us, in each case, under the terms of our current and any future agreements governing our indebtedness.
Cash Flows
Operating Activities
The cash conversion cycle decreased to 18 days at September 30, 2018 compared to 19 days at September 30, 2017 as DSO and DPO each increased 1 day and DIO decreased 1 day compared to September 30, 2017.
Both DSO and DPO are impacted by third party services such as software as a service and warranties.
These sales have an unfavorable impact on DSO as the receivable is recognized on the Consolidated Balance Sheet on a gross basis while the corresponding sales amount in the Consolidated Statement of Operations is recorded on a net basis.
This also results in a favorable impact on DPO as the payable is recognized on the Consolidated Balance Sheet without a corresponding Cost of sales in the Statement of Operations because the cost paid to the vendor or third-party service provider is recorded as a reduction to Net sales.
Additionally, average inventory balances remained at the same levels as 2017 which, coupled with higher Cost of sales, led to a favorable impact on DIO.
Investing Activities
Net cash used in investing activities decreased by $6 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2018 compared to the same period of the prior year.
Capital expenditures were $53 million and $59 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The decrease in capital expenditures is primarily due to the timing of investments for improvements to our information technology systems.
Financing Activities
Net cash used in financing activities decreased by $112 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2018 compared to the same period of the prior year.
The decrease was primarily driven by fewer share repurchases during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, which resulted in a $301 million decrease in cash used in financing activities.
The decrease in cash used in financing activities was partially offset by reduced borrowings under our revolving credit facilities, which resulted in net cash outflows of $185 million.
For more information regarding our debt and refinancing activities, see Note 6 (Long-Term Debt) to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements.
Long-Term Debt and Financing Arrangements
As of September 30, 2018, we had total indebtedness of $3.2 billion, of which $1.5 billion was secured indebtedness.
At September 30, 2018, we were in compliance with the covenants under our various credit agreements and indentures.
The amount of CDW’s restricted payment capacity under the Senior Secured Term Loan Facility was $1.4 billion at September 30, 2018.
The amount of restricted payment capacity for the CDW UK Term Loan was $152 million at September 30, 2018.
For additional details regarding our debt and refinancing activities, refer to Note 6 (Long-Term Debt) to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements.
Inventory Financing Agreements
We have entered into agreements with certain financial intermediaries to facilitate the purchase of inventory from various suppliers under certain terms and conditions.
These amounts are classified separately as Accounts payable-inventory financing on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
We do not incur any interest expense associated with these agreements as balances are paid when they are due.
For further details, see Note 3 (Inventory Financing Agreements) to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements.
Contractual Obligations
Except as disclosed under Note 6 (Long-Term Debt) to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements, there have been no material changes to our contractual obligations from those reported in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
We have no off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a material current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources.
Commitments and Contingencies
The information set forth in Note 11 (Commitments and Contingencies) to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements.
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we adopted the requirements of Topic 606.
See Note 1 (Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies) to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding our new revenue recognition critical accounting policy.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
The information set forth in Note 2 (Recent Accounting Pronouncements) to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements is incorporated herein by reference.
Forward-Looking Statements
This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws.
All statements other than statements of historical fact included in this report are forward-looking statements.
These statements relate to analysis and other information, which are based on forecasts of future results and estimates of amounts not yet determinable.
These statements also relate to our future prospects, developments and business strategies.
We claim the protection of The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 for all forward-looking statements in this report.
These forward-looking statements are identified by the use of terms and phrases such as "anticipate," "believe," "could," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "plan," "predict," "project," "should," "will" and similar terms and phrases, including references to assumptions.
However, these words are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements.
Although we believe that our plans, intentions and expectations reflected in or suggested by such forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot assure you that we will achieve those plans, intentions or expectations.
All forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those that we expected.
Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations, or cautionary statements, are disclosed under the section entitled "Risk Factors" included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 and from time to time in our subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and our other SEC filings.
These factors include, among others, global and regional economic and political conditions; decreases in spending on technology products and services; CDW's relationships with vendor partners and availability of their products; continued innovations in hardware, software and services offerings by CDW's vendor partners; substantial competition that could reduce CDW's market share; CDW's substantial indebtedness and ability to generate sufficient cash to service such indebtedness; restrictions imposed by agreements relating to CDW's indebtedness on its operations and liquidity; changes in, or the discontinuation of, CDW's share repurchase program or dividend payments; the continuing development, maintenance and operation of CDW's information technology systems; potential breaches of data security and failure to protect our information technology systems from cybersecurity threats; potential failures to comply with Public segment contracts or applicable laws and regulations; potential failures to provide high-quality services to CDW's customers; potential losses of any key personnel; potential interruptions of the flow of products from suppliers; potential adverse occurrences at one of CDW's primary facilities or customer data centers; increases in the cost of commercial delivery services or disruptions of those services; CDW's exposure to accounts receivable and inventory risks; fluctuations in foreign currency; future acquisitions or alliances; fluctuations in CDW's operating results; current and future legal proceedings and audits; changes in laws, including the recent US tax legislation, regulations or interpretations thereof; and other risk factors or uncertainties identified from time to time in CDW's filings with the SEC.
All written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us, or persons acting on our behalf, are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained in the section entitled "Risk Factors" included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 and elsewhere in this report as well as other cautionary statements that are made from time to time in our other SEC filings and public communications.
You should evaluate all forward-looking statements made in this report in the context of these risks and uncertainties.
We caution you that the important factors referenced above may not contain all of the factors that are important to you.
In addition, we cannot assure you that we will realize the results or developments we expect or anticipate or, even if substantially realized, that they will result in the consequences or affect us or our operations in the way we expect.
The forward-looking statements
included in this report are made only as of the date hereof.
We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as otherwise required by law.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities
None.
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
