Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  

Forward Looking Statements and Projections  

This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements relate to future events or our future financial performance.
We generally identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “expects,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “could,” “intends,” “target,” “projects,” “contemplates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “predicts,” “potential” or “continue” or the negative of these terms or other similar words.
We have based these forward-looking statements largely on our current expectations and projections about future events and financial trends that we believe may affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.
The outcome of the events described in these forward looking statements is subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors described in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” “Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Accordingly, you should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events.
We cannot assure you that the events and circumstances reflected in the forward-looking statements will be achieved or occur, and actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements.
The forward-looking statements made in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q relate only to events as of the date on which the statements are made.
We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which the statement is made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
Overview  

We are a leading global provider of design assets, technology and expertise that are designed to enable the best user experiences, ensure brand integrity and help companies engage their best customers.
