fls.txt
We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations and projections about future events.


item1.txt
interest rate swap agreements, which are used to protect us against changes in the fair values of certain of our fixed-rate borrowings attributable to the movements in benchmark interest rates.
Oracle sought equitable rescission of the Hurd Settlement Agreement, and other equitable and monetary relief.
Plaintiff alleges that the defendants breached their fiduciary duties by causing Oracle to agree to purchase NetSuite at an excessive price.
Our advanced customer support services are offered as standalone arrangements or as a part of arrangements to customers buying other products and services.
Our services business provides services to customers and partners to help maximize the performance of their investments in Oracle applications, platform and infrastructure technologies.
The balances at August 31, 2018 and May 31, 2018 included $219 million and $257 million, respectively, recorded in other current liabilities, and $14 million and $25 million, respectively, recorded in other non-current liabilities.
The relative proportion of our total revenues between each geographic region as presented in the table below was materially consistent across each of our operating segments’ revenues for the periods presented.
Judgment was entered on October 20, 2016.
All plan adjustments were changes in estimates whereby increases and decreases in costs were generally recorded to operating expenses in the period of adjustments.
management, maintenance and security services for customer cloud-based, on-premise or other IT infrastructure for a fee for a stated term.
The sum of the costs and operating profit approximates, in theory, the amount that we would be required to pay a third party to assume these acquired obligations.
As a result of our adoption of ASU 2017-12, we have elected to exclude the portion of the change in fair value of these swap agreements attributable to the related cross-currency basis spread in our assessment of hedge effectiveness.
Our services business provides services to customers and partners to help maximize the performance of their investments in Oracle applications, platform and infrastructure technologies.
The hardware product and related software, such as an operating system or firmware, are highly interdependent and interrelated and are accounted for as a combined performance obligation.
These weighted shares relate to anti-dilutive restricted service based stock-based awards and stock options (as calculated using the treasury stock method) and contingently issuable shares under PSO and PSU arrangements.
On May 3, 2017, a stockholder derivative lawsuit was filed in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware.
Our fiscal 2019 stock-based awards issuances were partially offset by forfeitures and cancellations of 3 million shares during the first quarter of fiscal 2019.


item2.txt
cloud services revenues, which includes revenues from Oracle Cloud Software-as-a-Service (SaaS), Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS) and Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS) offerings (collectively, Oracle Cloud Services), which provide customers access to applications, platform and infrastructure technologies via cloud-based deployment models that Oracle develops, provides unspecified updates and enhancements for, hosts, manages and supports and that customers access by entering into a subscription agreement with us for a stated period.
The revenues for this combined performance obligation are generally recognized at the point in time that the hardware product is delivered to the customer and ownership is transferred to the customer.
License support revenues are typically generated through the sale of license support contracts related to cloud licenses and on-premise licenses purchased by our customers at their option and are generally recognized as revenues ratably over the contractual term, which is generally one year.
We expect to make investments in research and development to improve existing hardware products and services and to develop new hardware products and services.
The comparability of our operating results in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the corresponding prior year period was impacted by the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the Tax Act), which was effective for us starting in our third quarter of fiscal 2018.
The increase in net cash provided by investing activities during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was primarily due to an increase in net of proceeds received from sales and maturities of marketable securities and other investments, net of purchases.
Our cloud and license line of business, which represented 81% of our total revenues in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, markets, sells and delivers a broad spectrum of applications, platform and infrastructure technologies through our cloud and license offerings.
You should review the introduction under “Impact of Acquisitions” (above) for a discussion of the inherent limitations in comparing pre- and post-acquisition information.
The constant currency increase in our cloud and license revenues during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was attributable to growth in our cloud services and license support revenues as customers purchased our applications, platform and infrastructure technologies via cloud and license deployment models and renewed their related contracts to continue to gain access to our latest technology and support services.
Due to our application of business combination accounting rules, we did not recognize the cloud services and license support revenue amounts as presented in the above table that would have otherwise been recorded by the acquired businesses as independent entities upon delivery of the contractual obligations.
Impacts of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017


item3.txt



part2.txt
As of August 31, 2018, approximately $7.8 billion remained available for stock repurchases pursuant to our stock repurchase program.


