fls.txt
You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which reflect our expectations only as of the date of this Quarterly Report.


item1.txt
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
Plaintiffs also allege that defendants’ actions constitute gross mismanagement, waste, and securities fraud.
Plaintiff seeks a ruling that the case may proceed as a derivative action, and seeks damages, declaratory and other equitable relief, attorneys’ and expert fees and costs.
We have prepared the condensed consolidated financial statements included herein pursuant to the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
Revenues recognized from performance obligations satisfied in prior periods and impairment losses recognized on our receivables were immaterial in each of the three months ended August 31, 2019 and 2018.
As of August 31, 2019, the weighted average remaining lease term for operating leases was approximately five years, and the weighted average discount rate for operating leases was 3.1%.
The amended complaint also brought an aiding-and-abetting claim against NetSuite’s former Chief Executive Officer and NetSuite’s former Chief Technology Officer.
Our hardware business provides Oracle Engineered Systems, servers, storage, industry-specific hardware, operating systems, virtualization, management and other hardware-related software to support diverse IT environments.
On March 28, 2018, pursuant to a stipulation, all of the individual defendants, except for our Chief Technology Officer and one of our Chief Executive Officers, were dismissed from this case.
In each fiscal year, our cloud and license business’ contractual activities are typically highest in our fourth fiscal quarter and the related cash flows are typically highest in the following quarter (i.e., in the first fiscal quarter of the next fiscal year) as we receive payments from these contracts.
We repurchased 89.5 million shares for $5.0 billion during the three months ended August 31, 2019 (including 0.7 million shares for $35 million that were repurchased but not settled) and 212.2 million shares for $10.0 billion during the three months ended August 31, 2018 under the stock repurchase program.
As of August 31, 2019 and May 31, 2019, the notional amounts of such forward contracts we held to purchase U.S.
We have prepared the condensed consolidated financial statements included herein pursuant to the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
However, we believe that the disclosures herein are adequate to ensure the information presented is not misleading.
Amounts also include any changes in goodwill balances for the period presented that resulted from foreign currency translations.


item2.txt
Cloud license and on-premise license customers have the option to purchase and renew license support contracts, as described above.
Our stock repurchase program may be accelerated, suspended, delayed or discontinued at any time.
Our hardware business’ revenues are generated from the sales of our Oracle Engineered Systems, server, storage, and industry-specific hardware.
This maximum potential dilution will only result if all restricted stock-based awards vest and all stock options are exercised.
Restructuring expenses in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and 2019 primarily related to our 2019 Restructuring Plan.
Our products and services include applications and infrastructure offerings that are delivered worldwide through a variety of flexible and interoperable IT deployment models.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2020, there were no significant changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates.
Our stock repurchases may be effected from time to time through open market purchases or pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 plan.
In addition, we believe that we could fund our future acquisitions, dividend payments and repurchases of common stock or debt with our internally available cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, cash generated from operations, additional borrowings or from the issuance of additional securities.
However, we may modify the levels of our stock repurchases in the future depending on a number of factors, including the amount of cash we have available for acquisitions, to pay dividends, to repay or repurchase indebtedness or for other purposes.
Our stock repurchase program may be accelerated, suspended, delayed or discontinued at any time.
Our services business has lower margins than our cloud and license and hardware businesses.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
The material set forth in Note 9 (pertaining to information regarding contingencies related to our income taxes) and Note 12 (pertaining to information regarding legal contingencies) of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q is incorporated herein by reference.


