fls.txt
Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in “Risk Factors” included in documents we file from time to time with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC), including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended May 31, 2019 and our other Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q to be filed by us in our fiscal 2020, which runs from June 1, 2019 to May 31, 2020.


item1.txt
On March 28, 2018, pursuant to a stipulation, all of the individual defendants, except for our Chief Technology Officer and our Chief Executive Officer, were dismissed from this case.
The relative proportion of our total revenues between each geographic region as presented in the table below was materially consistent across each of our operating segments’ revenues for the periods presented.
Trade receivables, net of allowance for doubtful accounts, and deferred revenues are reported net of related uncollected deferred revenues in our condensed consolidated balance sheets as of November 30, 2019 and May 31, 2019.
Net gains or losses related to these forward contracts are included in non-operating income, net.
We determine if an arrangement is a lease at its inception.
The dividend is payable on January 23, 2020 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on January 9, 2020.
These fiscal 2020 stock-based awards issuances were partially offset by stock-based award forfeitures and cancellations of 11 million shares during the first half of fiscal 2020.
On September 11, 2019, we announced that our Board of Directors approved an expansion of our stock repurchase program by an additional $15.0 billion.
On September 11, 2019, we announced that our Board of Directors approved an expansion of our stock repurchase program by an additional $15.0 billion.
We have three businesses—cloud and license, hardware and services—each of which is comprised of a single operating segment.
On July 22, 2019, the court permitted plaintiff to file an amended complaint, adding again the defendants who had been dismissed from the case in March 2018.
The sum of the costs and operating profit approximates, in theory, the amount that we would be required to pay a third party to assume these acquired obligations.
Dollars in exchange for other major international currencies were $3.9 billion and $3.8 billion, respectively, and the notional amount of forward contracts we held to sell U.S.
Under the court’s rulings, HP is entitled to post-judgment interest, but not pre-judgment interest, on this award.
Restricted cash that was included within cash and cash equivalents as presented within our condensed consolidated balance sheets as of November 30, 2019 and May 31, 2019 and our condensed consolidated statements of cash flows for the six months ended November 30, 2019 and 2018 was nominal.


item2.txt
On a constant currency basis, our non-operating income, net decreased during the fiscal 2020 periods presented, relative to the corresponding prior year periods, primarily due to lower interest income in the fiscal 2020 periods presented, which was primarily attributable to lower average cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities balances during the fiscal 2020 periods presented.
The constant currency presentation, however, would translate the results for the first half of fiscal 2020 and 2019 using the May 31, 2019 exchange rate and indicate, in this example, no change in revenues during the period.
Net cash provided by investing activities increased during the first half of fiscal 2020, primarily due to an increase in the sales and maturities of, and a decrease in the purchases of, marketable securities and other investments during the first half of fiscal 2020 relative to the corresponding prior year period.
The amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we report in U.S.
Our stock repurchases may be effected from time to time through open market purchases or pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 plan.
We offer services to customers and partners to help to maximize the performance of their investments in Oracle applications and infrastructure technologies.
Revenues from usage‑based royalty arrangements for distinct cloud licenses and on-premise licenses are recognized at the point in time when the software end user usage occurs.
Our management approved, committed to and initiated the 2019 Restructuring Plan in order to restructure and further improve efficiencies in our operations.
Accordingly, we offer choice and flexibility to our customers and facilitate the product, service and deployment combinations that best suit our customers’ needs.
The revenues for this combined performance obligation are generally recognized at the point in time that the hardware product is delivered to the customer and ownership is transferred to the customer.
In constant currency, total margin and total margin as a percentage of total services revenues decreased during the fiscal 2020 periods presented, relative to the corresponding prior year periods, primarily due to the revenue declines and expense increases for this business in the fiscal 2020 periods presented.
The financial reporting for our three businesses that is presented below is presented in a manner that is consistent with that used by our CODMs.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Indicates management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.


