fls.txt
We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations and projections about future events.


item1.txt
The primary areas that remain preliminary relate to the fair values of intangible assets acquired, certain tangible assets and liabilities acquired, certain legal matters, income and non-income based taxes and residual goodwill.
The comparability of our operating results in the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2019 compared to the corresponding prior year periods was impacted by the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the Tax Act), which was effective for us starting in our third quarter of fiscal 2018.
The jury awarded HP $3.0 billion in damages.
On May 4, 2018, the remaining defendants answered plaintiff’s complaint.
The principal category we use to disaggregate revenues is the nature of our products and services as presented in our condensed consolidated statements of operations.
Our Board of Directors has approved a program for us to repurchase shares of our common stock.
Impacts of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017
Pursuant to our business combinations accounting policy, we recorded goodwill adjustments for the effects on goodwill of changes to net assets acquired during the period that such a change is identified, provided that any such change is within the measurement period (up to one year from the date of the acquisition).
We offer certain of our customers the option to acquire our software products, hardware products and services offerings through separate long-term payment contracts.
ASC 820 defines fair value as the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
“Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended May 31, 2018.
During the six months ended November 30, 2018, our Board of Directors declared cash dividends of $0.38 per share of our outstanding common stock, which we paid during the same period.
On March 28, 2018, we completed our acquisition of Aconex Limited (Aconex), a provider of cloud-based collaboration software for construction projects.
All plan adjustments were changes in estimates whereby increases and decreases in costs were generally recorded to operating expenses in the period of adjustments.
Revenues for fixed price services are generally recognized over time applying input methods to estimate progress to completion.
The total preliminary purchase price for Aconex was approximately $1.2 billion, which consisted of approximately $1.2 billion in cash and $7 million for the fair values of stock options and restricted stock-based awards assumed.
Revenues from distinct cloud license and on-premise license performance obligations are generally recognized upfront at the point in time when the software is made available to the customer to download and use.


item2.txt
Our stock-based compensation program is a key component of the compensation package we provide to attract and retain certain of our talented employees and align their interests with the interests of existing stockholders.
See “Presentation of Operating Segment Results and Other Financial Information” above for additional information.
the above table that would have otherwise been recorded by the acquired businesses as independent entities upon delivery of the contractual obligations.
We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet our working capital, capital expenditures and contractual obligation requirements.
We recognize that restricted stock-based awards and stock options dilute existing stockholders and have sought to control the number of stock-based awards granted while providing competitive compensation packages.
We expect these trends to continue.
We believe all of these factors should contribute to future growth in our cloud and license revenues, which should enable us to continue to make investments in research and development to develop and improve our cloud and license products and services.
In addition, we believe that we could fund our future acquisitions, dividend payments and repurchases of common stock or debt with our internally available cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, cash generated from operations, additional borrowings or from the issuance of additional securities.
In constant currency, total services expenses increased during the fiscal 2019 periods presented relative to the corresponding prior year periods primarily due to an increase in headcount related expenses associated with our consulting offerings.
To present this information, current and comparative prior period results for entities reporting in currencies other than U.S.
The hardware product and related software, such as an operating system or firmware, are highly interdependent and interrelated and are accounted for as a combined performance obligation.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 2.


