fls.txt
Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in “Risk Factors” included in documents we file from time to time with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC), including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended May 31, 2018 and our other Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q filed by us in our fiscal 2019, which runs from June 1, 2018 to May 31, 2019.


item1.txt
Plaintiffs also allege that defendants’ actions constitute gross mismanagement, waste, and securities fraud.
foreign currency borrowings, which were used to reduce the volatility in stockholders’ equity caused by the changes in the foreign currency exchange rates of the Euro with respect to the U.S. Dollar and were accounted for as net investment hedges pursuant to ASC 815 in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
We have three businesses— cloud and license, hardware and services —each of which is comprised of a single operating segment.
Consequently, it is not practical to show assets by operating segment.
Our stock repurchases may be effected from time to time through open market purchases or pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 plan.
foreign currency borrowings, which were used to reduce the volatility in stockholders’ equity caused by the changes in the foreign currency exchange rates of the Euro with respect to the U.S. Dollar and were accounted for as net investment hedges pursuant to ASC 815 in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
Cloud license and on-premise license revenues primarily represent amounts earned from granting customers licenses to use our database, middleware, application and industry-specific software products which our customers use for cloud-based, on-premise and other IT environments.
The revenues for this combined performance obligation are generally recognized at the point in time that the hardware product is delivered to the customer and ownership is transferred to the customer.
Plaintiffs also allege that defendants’ actions constitute gross mismanagement, waste, and securities fraud.
As a result, the SSP for a cloud license and an on-premise license included in a contract with multiple performance obligations is determined by applying a residual approach whereby all other performance obligations within a contract are first allocated a portion of the transaction price based upon their respective SSPs, with any residual amount of transaction price allocated to cloud license and on-premise license revenues.
The parties stipulated that all of the individual defendants, except for our Chief Technology Officer and one of our Chief Executive Officers, should be dismissed from this case without prejudice, and on March 28, 2018, the court approved this stipulation.
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
However, we believe that the disclosures herein are adequate to ensure the information presented is not misleading.
Hardware support contracts are generally priced as a percentage of the net hardware products fees.
Our cloud and license business engages in the sale, marketing and delivery of our applications and infrastructure technologies through cloud and on-premise deployment models including our cloud services and license support offerings; and our cloud license and on-premise license offerings.
On February 12, 2019, a stockholder derivative lawsuit was filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California.
The jury awarded HP $3.0 billion in damages.


item2.txt
Cloud license and on-premise license revenues include revenues from the licensing of our software products including Oracle Applications, Oracle Database, Oracle Middleware and Java, among others, which our customers deploy within cloud-based, on-premise and other IT environments.
In constant currency, our total applications revenues and our total infrastructure revenues each grew during the fiscal 2019 periods presented, each relative to the corresponding prior year periods, as customers continued to deploy our applications technologies and infrastructure technologies through a wide array of different deployment models that we offer to enable customer choice.
Our stock-based compensation program is a key component of the compensation package we provide to attract and retain certain of our talented employees and align their interests with the interests of existing stockholders.
Impacts of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017
You should review the introduction under “Impacts of Acquisitions” (above) for a discussion of the inherent limitations in comparing pre- and post-acquisition information.
We recognize that restricted stock-based awards and stock options dilute existing stockholders and have sought to control the number of stock-based awards granted while providing competitive compensation packages.
The historical upward trend of our cloud license and on-premise license revenues over the course of the four quarters within a particular fiscal year is primarily due to the addition of new cloud services and license support contracts to the customer contract base that we generally recognize ratably; the renewal of existing customers’ cloud services and license support contracts over the course of each fiscal year that we generally recognize ratably; and the historical upward trend of our cloud license and on-premise license revenues, which we generally recognize at a point in time upon delivery, over those four quarterly periods.
As the U.S. Dollar generally strengthened against certain major international currencies during the first nine months of fiscal 2019, the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we reported in U.S.
The revenues for this combined performance obligation are generally recognized at the point in time that the hardware product is delivered to the customer and ownership is transferred to the customer.
Includes cloud services and license support revenue adjustments related to certain cloud services and license support contracts that would have otherwise been recorded as revenues by the acquired businesses as independent entities but were not recognized in our GAAP-based condensed consolidated statements of operations for the periods presented due to business combination accounting requirements.


item3.txt



part2.txt
As of February 28, 2019, approximately $11.8 billion remained available for stock repurchases pursuant to our stock repurchase program.


