The material set forth in Note 11 (pertaining to information regarding contingencies related to our income taxes) and Note 14 (pertaining to information regarding legal contingencies) of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q is incorporated herein by reference.
Financing receivables sold to financial institutions were $360 million and $1.3 billion for the three and nine months ended February 28, 2018, respectively, and $296 million and $1.3 billion for the three and nine months ended February 28, 2017, respectively.
We also held certain foreign currency contracts that were not designated as hedges pursuant to ASC 815.
The senior notes rank pari passu with any other existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness of Oracle Corporation.
The unaudited pro forma financial information for all periods presented included the business combination accounting effects resulting from these acquisitions, including amortization charges from acquired intangible assets (certain of which are preliminary), stock-based compensation charges for unvested restricted stock-based awards and stock options assumed, if any, and the related tax effects as though the aforementioned companies were combined as of the beginning of fiscal 2017.
We also held certain foreign currency contracts that were not designated as hedges pursuant to ASC 815.
All existing and future indebtedness and liabilities of the subsidiaries of Oracle Corporation are or will be effectively senior to the senior notes.
   •    cross-currency swap agreements, which are used to manage foreign currency exchange risk by converting certain of our fixed-rate Euro-denominated borrowings to fixed-rate U.S. Dollar denominated debt and are accounted for as cash flow hedges; andThe amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we report in U.S.
In constant currency, our total operating margin and operating margin as a percentage of total revenues increased during the third quarter of fiscal 2018 as our total revenues grew while our total expenses declined.
In constant currency, total margin and total margin as a percentage of total services revenues decreased during the third quarter of fiscal 2018, primarily due to the decrease in revenues for this business.
We issued the senior notes for general corporate purposes, which may include stock repurchases, payment of cash dividends on our common stock, repayment of indebtedness and future acquisitions.
There are also areas in which management’s judgment in selecting among available alternatives would not produce a materially different result.
We enable our customers to evolve and transform to substantially any IT deployment model at whatever pace is most appropriate for them.
Hardware support contracts are generally priced as a percentage of the net hardware products fees and are generally recognized as revenues as the hardware support services are delivered.
Our cloud and on-premise software line of business, which represented 81% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis, markets, sells and delivers a broad spectrum of applications, platform and infrastructure technologies through our cloud and on-premise software offerings.
Additional details regarding the senior notes are included in Note 6 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report and Note 8 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2017.
The income tax effects presented for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2017 were calculated reflecting effective tax rates of 21.6% and 24.1%, respectively, instead of 17.0% and 21.3%, respectively, which represented our effective tax rates as derived per our condensed consolidated statements of operations, primarily due to the net tax effects of acquisition related items, including the tax effects of amortization of intangible assets, and the net tax effects of stock-based compensation. Item 2.