fls.txt
This filing contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws.


item1.txt
Item 1.Financial Statements The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.
The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.
The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.
No material reclassifications occurred during the current period.
Refer to the New Accounting Pronouncements footnote for additional information regarding retrospective reclassifications related to accounting standards adopted in the current year.
In March 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No.
In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No.
2017-01, Clarifying the Definition of a Business (“ASU 2017-01”), which requires an evaluation of whether substantially all of the fair value of assets acquired is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or a group of similar identifiable assets.
If so, the transaction does not qualify as a business.
The guidance also requires an acquired business to include at least one substantive process and narrows the definition of outputs.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the provisions of ASU 2017-01 and intends to implement the standard as required in fiscal 2019.
In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (“ASU 2016-15”), which is intended to reduce the diversity in practice in how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows including debt prepayment and extinguishment costs, contingent consideration payments made after a business combination, proceeds from the settlement of insurance claims, and proceeds from the settlement of corporate-owned life insurance.
ASU 2016-15 is effective for fiscal years (and interim reporting periods within those years) beginning after December 15, 2017.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-02, Leases (“ASU 2016-02”), which requires lessees to include most leases on the balance sheet.


item2.txt
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included within this report.
No acquisitions were completed during the first quarter of fiscal 2018 or fiscal 2017.
The Company expects to repurchase shares on an opportunistic basis.
No shares have been purchased under this plan as of November 30, 2017.
Cash generated from operating activities, as well as cash on-hand, was used during the current period primarily to fund capital expenditures of $10.3 million, to pay employee taxes on net settlement of equity awards of $6.0 million, and to pay dividends to stockholders of $5.5 million.
Operating working capital (calculated by adding accounts receivable plus inventories, and subtracting accounts payable-net of acquisitions and the impact of foreign exchange rate changes) decreased approximately $14.0 million during the first three months of fiscal 2018 compared to a $0.1 million increase during the first three months of fiscal 2017.
The Unsecured Notes were subsequently exchanged for SEC-registered notes with substantially identical terms.
See the Debt and Lines of Credit footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.


item3.txt



item4.txt
As required by SEC rules, the Company has evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of its disclosure controls and procedures as of November 30, 2017.


part2.txt
Information regarding reportable legal proceedings is contained in Part I, Item 3.
Item 1a.Risk Factors At the Company's annual meeting of stockholders held on January 5, 2018, in Atlanta, Georgia, the stockholders considered and voted on the following proposals.
Additionally, the Board determined that the Company will hold future non-binding, advisory votes of stockholders to approve the compensation of the named executive officers every year, consistent with the results of the vote at the annual meeting of stockholders held on January 5, 2018.
This advisory vote will occur annually until the Board otherwise elects a different frequency for such non-binding, advisory votes or until another non-binding, advisory stockholder vote on the frequency of stockholder votes on executive compensation occurs.


