We are one of the world’s leading providers of lighting and building management solutions and services for commercial, institutional, industrial, infrastructure, and residential applications throughout North America and select international markets.
Additionally, we continue to expand our solutions portfolio, including software and services, to provide a host of other economic benefits resulting from data analytics that enables the Internet of Things (“IoT”), supports the advancement of smart buildings, smart cities, and the smart grid, and allows businesses to develop custom applications to scale their operations.
We prepared the Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
No material reclassifications occurred during the current period.
No acquisitions were completed during the first nine months of fiscal 2019.
On May 1, 2018, using cash on hand and borrowings available under existing credit arrangements, we acquired all of the equity interests of IOTA Engineering, LLC (“IOTA”).
IOTA is headquartered in Tucson, Arizona and manufactures highly engineered emergency lighting products and power equipment for commercial and institutional applications both in the U.S. and international markets.
Lucid Design Group, Inc. On February 12, 2018, using cash on hand, we acquired all of the equity interests of Lucid Design Group, Inc (“Lucid”).
Acquisition-related costs were expensed as incurred.
The aggregate purchase price of these acquisitions reflects total goodwill and identified intangible assets of approximately $76.8 million and $81.8 million, respectively, as of May 31, 2019.
Identified intangible assets consist of indefinite-lived marketing-related intangibles as well as definite-lived customer-based and technology-based assets, which have a weighted average useful life of approximately 14 years.Our principal office is located in Atlanta, Georgia.
On February 12, 2018, using cash on hand, we acquired Lucid Design Group, Inc (“Lucid”).
No acquisitions were completed during the first nine months of fiscal 2019.
We currently expect to invest approximately 1.5% of net sales in capital expenditures during fiscal 2019.
In March 2018, the Board of Directors (the “Board”) authorized the repurchase of up to six million shares of the Company's common stock.
As of May 31, 2019, 1.2 million shares had been repurchased under this authorization, of which 0.4 million shares were repurchased in fiscal 2019.Item 1a.Risk Factors Item 5.Other Information The dividend is payable on August 1, 2019 to stockholders of record on July 17, 2019.
Exhibits are listed on the Index to Exhibits.