fls.txt



item1.txt
The Company’s lighting and building management solutions include devices such as luminaires, lighting controls, controllers for various building systems, power supplies, prismatic skylights, and drivers, as well as integrated systems designed to optimize energy efficiency and comfort for various indoor and outdoor applications.
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared by the Company in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
GAAP”) and present the financial position, results of operations, and cash flows of Acuity Brands and its wholly-owned subsidiaries.
However, the Company believes that the disclosures included herein are adequate to make the information presented not misleading.
Certain prior-period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
No material reclassifications occurred during the current period.
Refer to the New Accounting Pronouncements footnote for additional information regarding retrospective reclassifications related to accounting standards adopted in the current year.
IOTA is headquartered in Tucson, Arizona and manufactures highly engineered emergency lighting products and power equipment for commercial and institutional applications both in the U.S. and internationally.
Preliminary amounts related to the acquisition accounting are reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of May 31, 2018.
Lucid is headquartered in Oakland, California and provides a data and analytics platform to make data-driven decisions to improve building efficiency and drive energy conservation and savings.
Preliminary amounts related to the acquisition accounting are reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The aggregate preliminary purchase price of these acquisitions reflects total goodwill and identified intangible assets of approximately $75.7 million and $79.1 million, respectively.
Identified intangible assets consist of indefinite-lived marketing-related intangibles as well as definite-lived customer-based and technology-based assets, which have a weighted average useful life of approximately 22 years.


item2.txt
The Company is one of the world’s leading providers of lighting and building management solutions and services for commercial, institutional, industrial, infrastructure, and residential applications throughout North America and select international markets.
On May 1, 2018, using cash on hand and borrowings available under existing credit arrangements, the Company acquired IOTA Engineering, LLC (“IOTA”).
IOTA is headquartered in Tucson, Arizona and manufactures highly engineered emergency lighting products and power equipment for commercial and institutional applications both in the U.S. and internationally.
On February 12, 2018, using cash on hand, the Company acquired Lucid Design Group, Inc (“Lucid”).
No acquisitions were completed during fiscal 2017.
The Company’s principal sources of liquidity are operating cash flows generated primarily from its business operations, cash on hand, and various sources of borrowings.
For the first nine months of fiscal 2018, $32.2 million had been invested, primarily for equipment, tooling, facility enhancements, and new and enhanced information technology capabilities.
During June 2018, the Company entered into a new revolving credit facility and term loan facility.
The Company’s cash position at May 31, 2018 was $94.3 million, a decrease of $216.8 million from August 31, 2017.
During the nine months ended May 31, 2018, the Company generated net cash flows from operations of $300.7 million.
Management believes that investing in assets and programs that will over time increase the overall return on its invested capital is a key factor in driving stockholder value.


item3.txt



item4.txt
As required by SEC rules, the Company has evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of its disclosure controls and procedures as of May 31, 2018.


part2.txt
Information regarding reportable legal proceedings is contained in Part I, Item 3.
Item 1a.Risk Factors Item 2.
Available borrowings under the Credit Agreement may be used for general corporate purposes, working capital, refinancing indebtedness under the prior Revolving Credit Facility, share repurchases, and non-hostile acquisitions.
Generally, amounts outstanding under the New Revolving Credit Facility allow for borrowings to bear interest at either the Eurocurrency Rate or the base rate at the Company's option.


