fls.txt
This filing contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws.


item1.txt
Item 1.Financial Statements The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.
The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.
The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.
GAAP”) and present the financial position, results of operations, and cash flows of Acuity Brands and its wholly-owned subsidiaries.
Certain prior-period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
No material reclassifications occurred during the current period.
Refer to the New Accounting Pronouncements footnote for additional information regarding retrospective reclassifications related to accounting standards adopted in the current year.
There was one acquisition during the six months ended February 28, 2018.
No acquisitions occurred during fiscal 2017.
Lucid is headquartered in Oakland, California and provides a data and analytics platform to make data-driven decisions to improve building efficiency and drive energy conservation and savings.
Preliminary amounts related to the acquisition accounting are reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of February 28, 2018.
In March 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No.
In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No.


item2.txt
The Company is one of the world’s leading providers of lighting and building management solutions and services for commercial, institutional, industrial, infrastructure, and residential applications throughout North America and select international markets.
Lucid is headquartered in Oakland, California and provides a data and analytics platform to make data-driven decisions to improve building efficiency and drive energy conservation and savings.
No acquisitions were completed during fiscal 2017.
The Company’s principal sources of liquidity are operating cash flows generated primarily from its business operations, cash on hand, and various sources of borrowings.
For the first half of fiscal 2018, $20.9 million had been invested, primarily for equipment, tooling, facility enhancements, and new and enhanced information technology capabilities.
As of February 28, 2018, 1.2 million shares had been purchased under this authorization.
In March 2018, the Board authorized the repurchase of six million shares, which includes the remaining 0.8 million shares available for repurchase under the June 2017 authorization.
repurchase activity.
The Company’s cash position at February 28, 2018 was $229.8 million, a decrease of $81.3 million from August 31, 2017.
Operating working capital during the six months ended February 28, 2018 was favorably impacted by a reduction in inventory, driven primarily by reduced on-hand raw materials and work in process.
Management believes that investing in assets and programs that will over time increase the overall return on its invested capital is a key factor in driving stockholder value.
The current capital structure of the Company is comprised principally of senior unsecured notes and equity of its stockholders.


item3.txt



item4.txt
As required by SEC rules, the Company has evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of its disclosure controls and procedures as of February 28, 2018.


part2.txt
Information regarding reportable legal proceedings is contained in Part I, Item 3.
Item 1a.Risk Factors Item 2.
In March 2018, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of six million shares, which includes the remaining 0.8 million shares available for repurchase under the June 2017 authorization.


