Serving the industry for more than three decades, we are headquartered in Charleston, South Carolina and have operations in the United States, Australia, Canada, Costa Rica and the United Kingdom.
The accompanying interim consolidated financial statements have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") for interim financial reporting.
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in annual financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP have been omitted in accordance with the rules and regulations for interim reporting of the SEC.
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Blackbaud, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries.
to use the hindsight practical expedient, which permits entities to use hindsight in determining the lease term and assessing impairment.
Additionally, we elected not to apply the recognition requirements of the new lease accounting standard to short-term leases.
Adopting ASU 2016-02 had a material impact on our consolidated balance sheet as of January 1, 2019, as we recognized $121.6 million of lease liabilities and $113.4 million of right-of-use ("ROU") assets for those leases classified as operating leases.
Except for the accounting policy added for leases below as a result of adopting ASU 2016-02, there have been no changes to our significant accounting policies described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, filed with the SEC on February 20, 2019, that have had a material impact on our consolidated financial statement.Serving the industry for more than three decades, we are headquartered in Charleston, South Carolina and have operations in the United States, Australia, Canada, Costa Rica and the United Kingdom.
We continue to progress in our early adopter program for our new Cloud Solution for Faith Communities with our first wave of early adopter customers now live on our Church Management Solution using it to run their day-to-day operations in close collaboration with our product teams.
We spent much of 2018 working to simplify our program and refine our methodology and approach in a uniform way to better enable our salespeople with process and practice.
During the first quarter of 2019, we implemented a common sales leadership framework across the Company, providing our sales managers with best practice tools and training necessary to be successful.
3.Expand TAM into Near Adjacencies through Acquisitions and Product Investments In January 2019, we added another half-billion dollars in TAM when we completed our acquisition of YourCause, an industry leader in enterprise corporate social responsibility and employee engagement technology.
The increase in total revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018, was primarily driven by growth in recurring revenue as we continue to see positive demand from customers across our portfolio of cloud-based solutions.
The acquisitions of Reeher and YourCause, which occurred after March 31, 2018, also contributed to the increases in recurring and total revenue.
As expected, one-time services and other revenue declined $5.6 million during the three months ended March 31, 2019 due to our continued shift in focus towards selling cloud-based subscription solutions.
Increases in stock-based compensation of $2.6 million, employee severance of $2.5 million, rent expense of $1.6 million, restructuring costs of $1.1 million and amortization of intangible assets from business combinations of $1.1 million also negatively impacted income from operations during the three months ended March 31, 2019.
The increase in stock-based compensation expense was primarily driven by an increase in the grant date fair value of our annual equity awards granted to employees during the first quarter of 2019, when compared to the grant date fair value of the awards granted during the same period in 2018.