fls.txt
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, including the documents incorporated herein by reference, contains forward-looking statements that anticipate results based on our estimates, assumptions and plans that are subject to uncertainty.


item1.txt
Serving the industry for more than three decades, we are headquartered in Charleston, South Carolina and have operations in the United States, Australia, Canada, Costa Rica and the United Kingdom.
The accompanying interim consolidated financial statements have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") for interim financial reporting.
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in annual financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP have been omitted in accordance with the rules and regulations for interim reporting of the SEC.
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Blackbaud, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
Additionally, we elected not to apply the recognition requirements of the new lease accounting standard to short-term leases.
Adopting ASU 2016-02 had a material impact on our consolidated balance sheet as of January 1, 2019, as we recognized $121.6 million of lease liabilities and $113.4 million of right-of-use ("ROU") assets for those leases classified as operating leases.
ROU assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments.
Variable lease payments, which are primarily comprised of common-area maintenance, utilities and real estate taxes that are passed on from the lessor in proportion to the space leased by us, are recognized in operating expenses in the period in which the obligation for those payments is incurred.
On January 2, 2019, we acquired all of the outstanding equity securities, including all voting equity interests, of YourCause Holdings, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company ("YourCause"), pursuant to a purchase agreement and plan of merger.
The acquisition expands our footprint in corporate social responsibility and employee engagement and enhances our position as a leader in providing solutions to both nonprofit organizations and for-profit companies committed to addressing social issues.
We acquired the equity securities for an aggregate purchase price of $157.7 million in cash, net of closing adjustments.


item2.txt
Serving the industry for more than three decades, we are headquartered in Charleston, South Carolina and have operations in the United States, Australia, Canada, Costa Rica and the United Kingdom.
Among the many product and innovation updates across all of our vertical markets, we recently announced the general availability of Blackbaud Church Management™, which is already transforming the church technology landscape.
Our early adopter customers have a significant role in shaping our new solutions and our SKY platform enables us to rapidly iterate based on their feedback before releasing the solutions to the market.
This effort extends beyond our sales organization into areas like marketing, where we are investing in the necessary technology and resources to efficiently drive an increased number of quality leads and better cover our large addressable market.
Over the last three years, we've tripled the number of account executives dedicated to prospect accounts, and these investments are just one way we're equipping our growing salesforce to be more effective.
In January 2019, we acquired YourCause, a market leader in corporate social responsibility software, and our ability to move fast on back-office integration is enabling us to further differentiate our solutions from the competition.
For example, we are now selling a portfolio of modern cloud solutions, which is driving a shift away from one-time services as we reduce the hours needed for implementation and integration of our solutions.
In order to efficiently scale as the Company continues to grow, we are continuing to build out our partner ecosystem, which includes partnerships to implement our cloud solutions.
As expected, one-time services and other revenue declined $5.0 million and $14.3 million, respectively, during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 due to our continued shift in focus towards selling cloud-based subscription solutions.
Income from operations decreased during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, when compared to the same periods in 2018.
Contributing to the decreases in income from operations were increases in stock-based compensation of $4.1 million and $7.9 million, respectively, and hosting and data center costs of $1.0 million and $4.0 million, respectively.
Increases in employee severance of $1.9 million, amortization of intangible assets from business combinations of $1.8 million and rent expense of $1.7 million, also negatively impacted income from operations during the nine months ended September 30, 2019.
The increases in stock-based compensation expense were primarily driven by an increase in the grant date fair value of our annual equity awards granted to employees during the first quarter of 2019, when compared to the grant date fair value of the awards granted during the same period in 2018.
The increase in rent expense during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 was primarily associated with the lease for our New Headquarters Facility in Charleston, South Carolina, which commenced in April 2018.
The increase in employee severance was related to the elimination of certain roles within the company, most of which occurred during the first quarter of 2019.
In the long term, we also anticipate an increase in recurring subscription contract renewals as we continue focusing on innovation, quality and the integration of our cloud-based solutions, which we believe will provide value-adding capabilities to better address our customers' needs.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt



