item1.txt
The accounting policies followed by the Company are set forth in Part II, Item 8, Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10‑K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017. In the opinion of management, all adjustments necessary to fairly state the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been made. All such adjustments are of a normal, recurring nature. Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in the Consolidated Financial Statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“U.S. GAAP”) have been condensed or omitted pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). These Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10‑K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017. The results of operations for interim periods are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for the full year.
In July 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015‑11, “Inventory (Topic 330) - Simplifying the Measurement of Inventory” (“ASU 2015‑11”), which dictates that an entity should measure inventory within the scope of this update at the lower of cost and net realizable value. Net realizable value is the estimated selling prices in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal, and transportation. The Company adopted this standard in the first quarter of 2018. The Company’s adoption of ASU 2015‑11 did not have a material impact on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
Level 2.Inputs other than Level 1 that are observable, either directly or indirectly, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.
For financial instruments where the carrying value (which includes principal adjusted for any unamortized issuance costs, and discounts or premiums) differs from fair value (which is based on quoted market prices), the following table represents the related carrying value and fair value for each of the Company’s outstanding financial instruments. Each of the financial instruments presented below was categorized as Level 2 for all periods presented, based on the frequency of trading immediately prior to the end of the second quarter of 2018 and the fourth quarter of 2017, respectively. 
As of December 29, 2017, the Company had outstanding foreign exchange forward contracts which were designated as either cash flow hedges or non-designated hedges. The contract maturity dates of these foreign exchange forward contracts do not exceed 12 months. In addition, the Company had outstanding interest rate swaps which were designated as cash flow hedges. The Company determined the ineffectiveness associated with its cash flow hedges to be immaterial to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for the three and six months ended December 29, 2017 and December 30, 2016.
Under certain provisions and conditions within agreements with counterparties to the Company’s foreign exchange forward contracts, subject to applicable requirements, the Company has the right of offset associated with the Company’s foreign exchange forward contracts and is allowed to net settle transactions of the same currency with a single net amount payable by one party to the other. As of December 29, 2017 and June 30, 2017, the effect of rights of offset was not material and the Company did not offset or net the fair value amounts of derivative instruments in its Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
On November 29, 2017, the Company entered into an amendment to the credit agreement entered into on April 29, 2016 (as amended, the “Credit Agreement”), to increase the size of its existing $1.0 billion revolving credit facility by $500 million to $1.5 billion. The term of the revolving credit facility remained unchanged and will mature on April 29, 2021. As of December 29, 2017, there were no borrowings under the revolving credit facility.
The Company has pension and other post-retirement benefit plans in various countries. The Company’s principal pension plans are in Japan. All pension and other post-retirement benefit plans outside of the Company’s Japanese defined benefit pension plan (the “Japanese Plan”) are immaterial to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. The expected long-term rate of return on the Japanese Plan assets is 2.5%.
In connection with a settlement agreement with Toshiba, in December 2017, the Company entered into a facility agreement (“Y6 Facility Agreement”) with TMC related to the construction and operation of a new 300-millimeter wafer fabrication facility in Yokkaichi, Japan, referred to as “Fab 6”, which is primarily intended to provide cleanroom space to continue the transition of existing 2D NAND manufacturing capacity to BiCS 3D NAND manufacturing capacity. Under the Y6 Facility Agreement, the Company is committed to 50% of Fab 6’s start-up costs, as well as 50% of the joint ventures’ portion of an upcoming investment in manufacturing equipment for Fab 6. See also Note 13, Legal Proceedings.
The Company’s maximum reasonably estimable loss exposure (excluding lost profits) as a result of its involvement with Flash Ventures, based upon the Japanese yen to U.S. dollar exchange rate at December 29, 2017, is presented below. Investments in Flash Ventures are denominated in Japanese yen and the maximum possible loss exposure excludes any cumulative translation adjustment due to revaluation from the Japanese yen to the U.S. dollar.
Flash Ventures sells and leases back from a consortium of financial institutions a portion of its tools and has entered into equipment lease agreements of which the Company guarantees half of the total outstanding obligations. The lease agreements contain customary covenants for Japanese lease facilities. In addition to containing customary events of default related to Flash Ventures that could result in an acceleration of Flash Ventures’ obligations, the lease agreements contain acceleration clauses for certain events of default related to the guarantors, including the Company. 
The Company’s Board of Directors (the “Board”) has authorized $5.00 billion for the repurchase of the Company’s common stock. The stock repurchase program is effective until February 3, 2020. The Company did not repurchase any shares of common stock during the three months ended December 29, 2017. The remaining amount available to be purchased under the Company’s stock repurchase program as of December 29, 2017 was $2.10 billion.
On November 1, 2017, the Board declared a cash dividend of $0.50 per share of the Company’s common stock. The cash dividend aggregating $149 million was paid on January 16, 2018 to the Company’s shareholders of record as of December 29, 2017. On January 27, 2018, the Board declared a cash dividend of $0.50 per share to shareholders of record as of March 30, 2018, which will be paid on April 16, 2018. The Company may modify, suspend or cancel its cash dividend policy in any manner and at any time.
The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“2017 Act”) was enacted on December 22, 2017. The 2017 Act includes a broad range of tax reform proposals affecting businesses, including a reduction in the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, a one-time mandatory deemed repatriation tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred and creates new taxes on certain foreign earnings.
The provisional income tax benefit of $88 million recorded for the three and six months ended December 29, 2017 related to the re-measurement of the Company’s deferred tax balance is based on the rates at which the deferred tax assets and liabilities are expected to reverse in the current and future fiscal years, which are generally 29% and 22%, respectively. However, the Company is still analyzing certain aspects of the 2017 Act and refining the calculations, which could potentially affect the measurement of these balances or potentially give rise to new deferred tax amounts. The Company is also analyzing the impact of the 2017 Act to the existing valuation allowance assessments from both a federal and state tax perspective, which could potentially affect the realizability of the existing deferred tax assets. In calculating the provisional amount, the Company utilized an estimate of the expected reversals of certain tax assets and liabilities, which will be revised in future quarters during the one-year measurement period as additional information becomes available.


item2.txt
In connection with the Refinancing Transactions, we have announced that we intend to repurchase up to $500 million of our common stock in privately negotiated or open market transactions. Since December 29, 2017, we have repurchased approximately $151 million of our common stock in privately negotiated transactions, at a purchase price per share equal to $87.08 per share, with available cash on hand.
In September 2017, Toshiba Corporation (“Toshiba”), of which TMC is a wholly owned subsidiary, announced it had entered into a definitive agreement to sell TMC, including its interest in Flash Ventures, to a consortium led by SK Hynix Inc. and Bain Capital Private Equity, L.P., BCPE Pangea Cayman, L.P., BCPE Pangea Cayman2, Ltd., Bain Capital Fund XII, L.P., Bain Capital Asia Fund III, L.P. and Pangea (together, “Bain Capital”), that includes other competitors, as well as key customers. We previously asserted our consent rights under the terms of the Flash Ventures agreements with respect to the transactions involving, among other things, the transfer by Toshiba of its interests in Flash Ventures to TMC, and the proposed sale of TMC to a consortium of investors led by Bain Capital. In December 2017, we entered into a Confidential Settlement and Mutual Release Agreement (the “Toshiba Settlement Agreement”) with Toshiba and TMC pursuant to which the parties agreed to withdraw and seek dismissal of the litigation and arbitration proceedings related to the transfer of Toshiba’s interests in Flash Ventures and related matters. In addition to the settlement with Toshiba and TMC, we also entered into a settlement agreement with Bain Capital and certain other agreements with TMC related to the operation of Flash Ventures. See Part I, Item 1, Note 13, Legal Proceedings, of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a further discussion of the litigation and arbitration proceedings between the parties and the Toshiba Settlement Agreement. 
In connection with the Toshiba Settlement Agreement, in December 2017, we entered into a facility agreement (the “Y6 Facility Agreement”) with TMC regarding the construction and operation of a new 300-millimeter wafer fabrication facility in Yokkaichi, Japan, referred to as “Fab 6”. The primary purpose of Fab 6, which is located adjacent to the fabrication facilities in Yokkaichi currently utilized by Flash Ventures, is to provide cleanroom space to continue the transition of the parties’ existing 2D NAND manufacturing capacity to BiCS 3D NAND manufacturing capacity. The Y6 Facility Agreement establishes terms for the manufacture of NAND in Fab 6 and amends the existing agreements governing Flash Ventures to provide for their use of Fab 6. We have agreed to fund 50% of Fab 6’s start-up costs, as well as 50% of Flash Ventures’ portion of an upcoming investment in manufacturing equipment for Fab 6. The Company’s share of the initial commitment is expected to be approximately $950 million, mostly for equipment investments and some start-up costs to be incurred primarily through calendar 2018. 


item3.txt



item4.txt
Item 4.Mine Safety Disclosures 


part2.txt
•Volatile Demand and Supplier Risk. Our direct and indirect customers may delay or reduce their purchases of our products and systems containing our products. In addition, many of our customers rely on credit financing to purchase our products. If negative conditions in the global credit markets prevent our customers’ access to credit, product orders may decrease, which could result in lower revenue. Likewise, if our suppliers, sub-suppliers and sub-contractors (collectively referred to as “suppliers”), or partners face challenges in obtaining credit, in selling their products or otherwise in operating their businesses, they may be unable to offer the materials we use to manufacture our products. These actions could result in reductions in our revenue and increased operating costs, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.
•Credit Volatility and Loss of Receivables. We extend credit and payment terms to some of our customers. In addition to ongoing credit evaluations of our customers’ financial condition, we seek to mitigate our credit risk from time to time by purchasing credit insurance on certain of our accounts receivable balances. As a result of the continued uncertainty and volatility in global economic conditions, however, we may find it increasingly difficult to be able to insure these accounts receivable. We could suffer significant losses if a customer whose accounts receivable we have not insured, or have underinsured, fails to pay us on their accounts receivable balances. Additionally, negative or uncertain global economic conditions increase the risk that if a customer we have insured fails to pay us on their accounts receivable, the financial condition of the insurance carrier for such customer account may have also deteriorated such that it cannot cover our loss. A significant loss of accounts receivable that we cannot recover through credit insurance would have a negative impact on our financial condition.
•Impairment Charges. We test goodwill for impairment annually as of the first day of our fourth quarter and at other times if events have occurred or circumstances exist that indicate the carrying value of goodwill may no longer be recoverable. Negative or uncertain global economic conditions could result in circumstances, such as a sustained decline in our stock price and market capitalization or a decrease in our forecasted cash flows, indicating that the carrying value of our long-lived assets or goodwill may be impaired. If we are required to record a significant charge to earnings in our Consolidated Financial Statements because of an impairment of our long-lived assets or goodwill, our results of operations will be adversely affected.
The majority of our NAND-flash memory is supplied by Flash Ventures, which limits our ability to respond to market demand and supply changes. A failure to accurately forecast demand could cause us to over-invest or under-invest in technology transitions or the expansion of captive memory capacity in Flash Ventures. Over-investment could result in excess supply, which could cause significant decreases in our product prices, significant excess, obsolete or lower of cost or net realizable value inventory write-downs or under-utilization charges, and the potential impairment of our investments in Flash Ventures. On the other hand, if we or TMC under-invest in captive memory capacity or technology transitions, if we grow capacity more slowly than the rest of the industry, if our technology transitions do not occur on the timeline that we expect, if we encounter unanticipated difficulties in implementing these transitions, or if we implement technology transitions more slowly than our competitors, we may not have enough captive supply of the right type of memory or at all to meet demand on a timely and cost effective basis and we may lose opportunities for revenue, gross margin and share as a result. If our NAND memory supply is limited, we may make strategic decisions with respect to the allocation of our supply among our products and customers, and these strategic allocation decisions may result in less favorable gross margin in the short term or damage certain customer relationships. Growth of our NAND-flash memory bit supply at a slower rate than the overall industry for an extended period of time would result in lowering our share which could limit our future opportunities and harm our financial results. We are also contractually obligated to pay for 50% of the fixed costs of Flash Ventures regardless of whether we purchase any wafers from Flash Ventures. Furthermore, purchase orders placed with Flash Ventures and under the foundry arrangements with TMC for up to three months are binding and cannot be canceled. Therefore, once our purchase decisions have been made, our production costs for flash memory are fixed, and we may be unable to reduce costs to match any subsequent declines in pricing or demand, which would harm our gross margin. Our limited ability to react to fluctuations in flash memory supply and demand makes our financial results particularly susceptible to variations from our forecasts and expectations.
Flash Ventures requires significant investments by both TMC and us for technology transitions, including the transition to 3D NAND, and capacity expansions. Lease financings guaranteed by or on behalf of both TMC and us are not currently available to Flash Ventures on favorable terms and we are pursuing alternative forms of financing to fund our share of investments, which might not continue to be accessible. To the extent that lease financings for Flash Ventures are not available on favorable terms or at all, more cash would be required to fund investments. If TMC does not or we do not provide sufficient resources, or have adequate access to credit, to timely fund investments in Flash Ventures, our investments could be delayed or reduced. 
The success of our acquisition of SanDisk, including anticipated benefits, synergies and cost savings, will depend, in part, on our ability to successfully combine and integrate the businesses and culture of SanDisk into our company. It is possible that the integration process will take longer than anticipated. In addition, the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, higher than expected costs, ongoing diversion of management attention, the disruption of our ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, vendors, partners and employees. If we experience difficulties with the integration process, the anticipated benefits of the Merger may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. In addition, the actual cost savings of the Merger could be less than anticipated. Additionally, the integration of SanDisk’s operations into our operations may also increase the risk that our internal controls are found to be ineffective.
As of December 29, 2017, our total indebtedness was $12.24 billion in aggregate principal, and we had $1.5 billion of additional borrowing availability under our revolving credit facility. On January 29, 2018, we announced the Refinancing Transactions, which remain subject to market and other conditions. After giving effect to the Refinancing Transactions, as of December 29, 2017 our total indebtedness would have been $11.3 billion in aggregate principal and we would have had $1.5 billion of additional borrowing availability under our revolving credit facility.
In addition, our credit ratings impact the cost and availability of future borrowings and, accordingly, our cost of capital. Our ratings reflect the opinions of the ratings agencies of our financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet our debt obligations. There can be no assurance that we will achieve a particular rating or maintain a particular rating in the future.
Demand for our devices, software and solutions that we offer to our customers, which we refer to in this Item 1A as our “products”, depends in large part on the demand for systems (including personal computers (“PCs”) and mobile devices) manufactured by our customers and on storage upgrades to existing systems. The demand for systems has been volatile in the past and often has had an exaggerated effect on the demand for our products in any given period. The price of NAND-flash memory is influenced by, among other factors, the balance between supply and demand, including the effects of new fab capacity in the industry, macroeconomic factors, business conditions, technology transitions, conversion of industry DRAM capacity to NAND, conversion of 2D NAND capacity to 3D NAND or other actions taken by us or our competitors. The price of HDDs is influenced by, among other factors, the balance between supply and demand, including the effects of new fab capacity in the industry, macroeconomic factors, business conditions, technology transitions, and other actions taken by us or our competitors. The storage market has experienced periods of excess capacity, which can lead to liquidation of excess inventories and significant reductions in price. If these price changes occur unnecessarily or in an unexpected manner, there will likely be an adverse impact on our revenue and gross margins. In addition, we compete based on our ability to offer our customers competitive solutions that provide the most current and desired product and service features. We expect that competition will continue to be intense, and there is a risk that our competitors’ products may be less costly, provide better performance or include additional features when compared to our products. Additionally, some of our competitors may be able to use their broader portfolio of products to win sales from us. Our ASPs and gross margins also tend to decline when there is a shift in the mix of product sales, and sales of lower priced products increase relative to those of higher priced products. Further, we face potential gross margin pressures resulting from our ASPs declining more rapidly than our cost of goods sold. Rapid technological changes often reduce the volume and profitability of sales of existing products and increase the risk of inventory obsolescence. These factors, along with others, may also result in significant shifts in market share among the industry’s major participants, including a substantial decrease in our market share, all of which could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition.
The data storage industry faces difficulties in accurately forecasting market and customer demand for its products. The variety and volume of products we manufacture are based in part on these forecasts. Accurately forecasting demand has become increasingly difficult for us, our customers and our suppliers in light of the volatility in global economic conditions and industry consolidation, resulting in less availability of historical market data for certain product segments. Further, for many of our OEMs utilizing just-in-time inventory, we do not generally require firm order commitments and instead receive a periodic forecast of requirements, which may prove to be inaccurate. In addition, because our products are designed to be largely interchangeable with competitors’ products, our demand forecasts may be impacted significantly by the strategic actions of our competitors. As forecasting demand becomes more difficult, the risk that our forecasts are not in line with demand increases. If our forecasts exceed actual market demand, then we could experience periods of product oversupply, excess inventory, and price decreases, which could impact our financial performance. If market demand increases significantly beyond our forecasts or beyond our ability to add manufacturing capacity, then we may not be able to satisfy customer product needs, possibly resulting in a loss of market share if our competitors are able to meet customer demands. In addition, some of our components have long lead-times, requiring us to place orders several months in advance of anticipated demand. Such long lead-times increase the risk of excess inventory or loss of sales in the event our forecasts vary substantially from actual demand.


