fls.txt



item1.txt
In July 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015‑11, “Inventory (Topic 330) - Simplifying the Measurement of Inventory” (“ASU 2015‑11”), which dictates that an entity should measure inventory within the scope of this update at the lower of cost and net realizable value. Net realizable value is the estimated selling prices in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal, and transportation. The Company adopted this standard in the first quarter of 2018. The Company’s adoption of ASU 2015‑11 did not have a material impact on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
During the nine months ended March 30, 2018, the expenses incurred by the Company related to these acquisitions were immaterial and are primarily included within Selling, General and Administrative expenses in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. Revenues and earnings related to these acquisitions was not material.
Level 2.Inputs other than Level 1 that are observable, either directly or indirectly, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.
During the three and nine months ended March 30, 2018, the Company had no transfers of financial assets and liabilities between Level 1 and Level 2.
The Company determined available-for-sale securities had no material other-than-temporary impairments in the three and nine months ended March 30, 2018 or March 31, 2017. 
During the three and nine months ended March 30, 2018, the Company recorded impairment charges and losses related to the sale of these cost method investments of $9 million and $15 million, respectively, which were included in Other expense, net in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. During the three and nine months ended March 31, 2017, the Company recorded impairment charges and losses related to the sale of these cost method investments of $7 million and $11 million, respectively. As of March 30, 2018 and June 30, 2017, these investments aggregated $28 million and $91 million, respectively, and are reported under Other non-current assets in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Under certain provisions and conditions within agreements with counterparties to the Company’s foreign exchange forward contracts, subject to applicable requirements, the Company has the right of offset associated with the Company’s foreign exchange forward contracts and is allowed to net settle transactions of the same currency with a single net amount payable by one party to the other. As of March 30, 2018 and June 30, 2017, the effect of rights of offset was not material and the Company did not offset or net the fair value amounts of derivative instruments in its Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The total net realized and unrealized transaction and foreign exchange forward contract currency gains and losses were not material to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for the three and nine months ended March 30, 2018 and March 31, 2017.
The 2024 Convertible Notes are convertible into cash, shares of the Company’s common stock, or a combination thereof at an initial conversion price of approximately $121.91 per share of common stock. Holders of the 2024 Convertible Notes may freely convert their 2024 Convertible Notes on or after November 1, 2023 until the close of business on the business day immediately preceding the maturity date. Prior to November 1, 2023, holders may convert their 2024 Convertible Notes based on variations in market price of the Company’s common stock in relation to the conversion price or the trading price of the 2024 Convertible Notes or upon the occurrence of specified corporate events.
In February 2018, the Company entered into an amendment to the credit agreement entered into on April 29, 2016 (as amended, the “Credit Agreement”), to provide for, among other things, (i) the issuance of a new $5.02 billion of term loan A-1 due 2023 (the “Term Loan A-1”), (ii) a new $2.25 billion revolving credit facility maturing in 2023 (the “Revolving Facility”), which replaced the Company’s prior $1.50 billion revolving credit facility maturing in 2021, (iii) modifications to the restrictive and financial maintenance covenants, to provide more flexibility and increased incremental debt capacity, (iv) amendments of the applicable varying interest rate margins to be based on the Company’s corporate credit ratings as described in the indenture, and (v) upon the occurrence of certain circumstances, a release of the security and guarantees as well as further covenant flexibility and increased incremental debt capacity. The Company used a portion of the proceeds of the Term Loan A-1 to repay in full its previous variable interest rate Term Loan A in the principal amount of $4.02 billion. 
The Term Loan A-1 and the Revolving Facility are unconditionally guaranteed by each of the guarantors under the Credit Agreement and are secured on a first-priority basis (subject to permitted liens) by a lien on the same collateral that secure the other loans under the Credit Agreement; provided that the security and guarantees will be automatically suspended upon certain conditions.
In connection with the settlements of the various debt instruments described above, the Company recognized an aggregate loss on debt extinguishment of $896 million for the nine months ended March 30, 2018, consisting of $720 million of “make-whole” and tender premiums and $176 million of unamortized issuance costs, of which $894 million was incurred in the three months ended March 30, 2018. In the three and nine months ended March 31, 2017, the Company incurred losses on the extinguishment of debt of $7 million and $274 million, respectively.
The Credit Agreement requires the Company to comply with certain financial covenants, such as a leverage ratio and an interest coverage ratio. As of March 30, 2018, the Company was in compliance with all financial covenants. In addition, the Credit Agreement requires the Company to comply with customary covenants that limit or restrict the Company’s and its subsidiaries’ ability to incur liens and indebtedness; make certain restricted payments, acquisitions, investments, loans and guarantees; and enter into certain transactions with affiliates, mergers and consolidations. In addition, the indentures governing the 2026 Senior Unsecured Notes and the 2024 Convertible Notes contain restrictive covenants that limit the Company’s and its subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things, consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of their assets; create liens; and incur, assume or guarantee additional indebtedness. 
As of March 30, 2018 and June 30, 2017, the Company had accounts payable balances due to Flash Ventures of $282 million and $206 million, respectively.
The Company’s maximum reasonably estimable loss exposure (excluding lost profits) as a result of its involvement with Flash Ventures, based upon the Japanese yen to U.S. dollar exchange rate at March 30, 2018, is presented below. Investments in Flash Ventures are denominated in Japanese yen, and the maximum possible loss exposure excludes any cumulative translation adjustment due to revaluation from the Japanese yen to the U.S. dollar.


item2.txt
•In February and March 2018, we completed the redemption of all of our outstanding 7.375% senior secured notes due 2023 in the aggregate principal amount of $1.875 billion (the “2023 Notes”) and the tender offer and redemption and settlement of all of our outstanding 10.500% senior unsecured notes due 2024 in the aggregate principal amount of $3.350 billion (the “2024 Notes” and collectively with the 2023 Notes, the “Existing Notes”).
The increase in net revenue for the three months ended March 30, 2018, compared to the same period in the prior year, is primarily due to increased flash memory and hard disk drives (“HDD”) product revenue. Client Devices revenue was relatively flat for the three months ended March 30, 2018 as a result of growth in mobile and embedded flash memory products offset by lower client compute devices. Our revenue for Data Center Devices and Solutions for the three months ended March 30, 2018 increased 25.0% year over year, primarily due to an increase in capacity enterprise HDD driven by cloud storage demand. Client Solutions revenue for the three months ended March 30, 2018 increased 3.9% year over year, primarily due to growth in HDD retail products.
The increase in gross profit for the three months ended March 30, 2018 reflects the increase in revenue discussed above and improvement in our gross margin. The improvement in gross margin for the three months ended March 30, 2018 was primarily due to a favorable demand environment for flash-based products and a higher mix of flash-based product revenue, growth in higher-margin capacity enterprise HDD, and improvements in our production costs from technology transitions. 


item3.txt



item4.txt
Item 4.Mine Safety Disclosures 


part2.txt
•Credit Volatility and Loss of Receivables. We extend credit and payment terms to some of our customers. In addition to ongoing credit evaluations of our customers’ financial condition, we seek to mitigate our credit risk from time to time by purchasing credit insurance on certain of our accounts receivable balances. As a result of the continued uncertainty and volatility in global economic conditions, however, we may find it increasingly difficult to be able to insure these accounts receivable. We could suffer significant losses if a customer whose accounts receivable we have not insured, or have underinsured, fails to pay us on their accounts receivable balances. Additionally, negative or uncertain global economic conditions increase the risk that if a customer we have insured fails to pay us on their accounts receivable, the financial condition of the insurance carrier for such customer account may have also deteriorated such that it cannot cover our loss. A significant loss of accounts receivable that we cannot recover through credit insurance would have a negative impact on our financial condition.
•Impairment Charges. We test goodwill for impairment annually as of the first day of our fourth quarter and at other times if events have occurred or circumstances exist that indicate the carrying value of goodwill may no longer be recoverable. Negative or uncertain global economic conditions could result in circumstances, such as a sustained decline in our stock price and market capitalization or a decrease in our forecasted cash flows, indicating that the carrying value of our long-lived assets or goodwill may be impaired. If we are required to record a significant charge to earnings in our Consolidated Financial Statements because of an impairment of our long-lived assets or goodwill, our results of operations will be adversely affected.
We rely substantially on our business ventures with Toshiba’s wholly owned subsidiary, Toshiba Memory Corporation (“TMC”), for the supply of NAND-flash memory and the development of NAND-flash technology, which subjects us to risks and uncertainties that could harm our business, financial condition and operating results.
We are dependent on our ventures with Toshiba’s wholly owned subsidiary, TMC, to develop and manufacture NAND-flash memory products for our NAND-flash memory supply, and therefore our business, financial condition and operating results, and our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from our acquisition of SanDisk Corporation (“SanDisk”) in May 2016, pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger”), is dependent on the continued success of Flash Ventures.
The majority of our NAND-flash memory is supplied by Flash Ventures, which limits our ability to respond to market demand and supply changes. A failure to accurately forecast demand could cause us to over-invest or under-invest in technology transitions or the expansion of captive memory capacity in Flash Ventures. Over-investment could result in excess supply, which could cause significant decreases in our product prices, significant excess, obsolete or lower of cost or net realizable value inventory write-downs or under-utilization charges, and the potential impairment of our investments in Flash Ventures. On the other hand, if we or TMC under-invest in captive memory capacity or technology transitions, if we grow capacity more slowly than the rest of the industry, if our technology transitions do not occur on the timeline that we expect, if we encounter unanticipated difficulties in implementing these transitions, or if we implement technology transitions more slowly than our competitors, we may not have enough captive supply of the right type of memory or at all to meet demand on a timely and cost effective basis and we may lose opportunities for revenue, gross margin and share as a result. If our NAND memory supply is limited, we may make strategic decisions with respect to the allocation of our supply among our products and customers, and these strategic allocation decisions may result in less favorable gross margin in the short term or damage certain customer relationships. Growth of our NAND-flash memory bit supply at a slower rate than the overall industry for an extended period of time would result in lowering our share, which could limit our future opportunities and harm our financial results. We are also contractually obligated to pay for 50% of the fixed costs of Flash Ventures regardless of whether we purchase any wafers from Flash Ventures. Furthermore, purchase orders placed with Flash Ventures and under the foundry arrangements with TMC for up to three months are binding and cannot be canceled. Therefore, once our purchase decisions have been made, our production costs for flash memory are fixed, and we may be unable to reduce costs to match any subsequent declines in pricing or demand, which would harm our gross margin. Our limited ability to react to fluctuations in flash memory supply and demand makes our financial results particularly susceptible to variations from our forecasts and expectations.
Flash Ventures requires significant investments by both TMC and us for technology transitions, including the transition to 3D NAND, and capacity expansions. Lease financings guaranteed by or on behalf of both TMC and us are not currently available to Flash Ventures on favorable terms and we are pursuing alternative forms of financing to fund our share of investments, which might not continue to be accessible. In addition, the financing arrangements that TMC’s purchaser may enter into in connection with its purchase of TMC could impose limitations on Flash Ventures’ ability to enter into lease financings. To the extent that lease financings for Flash Ventures are not available on favorable terms or at all, more cash would be required to fund investments. If TMC does not or we do not provide sufficient resources, or have adequate access to credit, to timely fund investments in Flash Ventures, our investments could be delayed or reduced. 
The success of our acquisition of SanDisk, including anticipated benefits, synergies and cost savings, will depend, in part, on our ability to successfully combine and integrate the businesses and culture of SanDisk into our company. It is possible that the integration process will take longer than anticipated. In addition, the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, higher than expected costs, ongoing diversion of management attention, the disruption of our ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, vendors, partners and employees. If we experience difficulties with the integration process, the anticipated benefits of the Merger may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. In addition, the actual cost savings of the Merger could be less than anticipated. Additionally, the integration of SanDisk’s operations into our operations may also increase the risk that our internal controls are found to be ineffective.
In addition to our credit ratings impacting the interest rate on our current debt, our ratings impact the cost and availability of future borrowings and, accordingly, our cost of capital. Our ratings reflect the opinions of the ratings agencies of our financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet our debt obligations. There can be no assurance that we will achieve a particular rating or maintain a particular rating in the future.
We may from time to time seek to further refinance our substantial indebtedness by issuing additional shares of our common stock in one or more securities offerings. These securities offerings may dilute our existing shareholders, reduce the value of our common stock, or both. Because our decision to issue securities will depend on, among other things, market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of any future securities offerings. Thus, holders of our common stock bear the risk of our future offerings diluting and potentially reducing the value of our common stock.
Demand for our devices, software and solutions that we offer to our customers, which we refer to in this Item 1A as our “products”, depends in large part on the demand for systems (including personal computers (“PCs”) and mobile devices) manufactured by our customers and on storage upgrades to existing systems. The demand for systems has been volatile in the past and often has had an exaggerated effect on the demand for our products in any given period. The price of NAND-flash memory is influenced by, among other factors, the balance between supply and demand, including the effects of new fab capacity in the industry, macroeconomic factors, business conditions, technology transitions, conversion of industry DRAM capacity to NAND, conversion of 2D NAND capacity to 3D NAND or other actions taken by us or our competitors. The price of HDDs is influenced by, among other factors, the balance between supply and demand, including the effects of new fab capacity in the industry, macroeconomic factors, business conditions, technology transitions, and other actions taken by us or our competitors. The storage market has experienced periods of excess capacity, which can lead to liquidation of excess inventories and significant reductions in price. If these price changes occur unnecessarily or in an unexpected manner, there will likely be an adverse impact on our revenue and gross margins. In addition, we compete based on our ability to offer our customers competitive solutions that provide the most current and desired product and service features. We expect that competition will continue to be intense, and there is a risk that our competitors’ products may be less costly, provide better performance or include additional features when compared to our products. Additionally, some of our competitors may be able to use their broader portfolio of products to win sales from us. Our ASPs and gross margins also tend to decline when there is a shift in the mix of product sales, and sales of lower priced products increase relative to those of higher priced products. Further, we face potential gross margin pressures resulting from our ASPs declining more rapidly than our cost of goods sold. Rapid technological changes often reduce the volume and profitability of sales of existing products and increase the risk of inventory obsolescence. These factors, along with others, may also result in significant shifts in market share among the industry’s major participants, including a substantial decrease in our market share, all of which could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition.


