item1.txt
The accounting policies followed by the Company are set forth in Part II, Item 8, Note 1, Organization and Basis of Presentation, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10‑K for the fiscal year ended June 29, 2018. In the opinion of management, all adjustments necessary to fairly state the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been made. All such adjustments are of a normal, recurring nature. Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in the Consolidated Financial Statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“U.S. GAAP”) have been condensed or omitted pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). These Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10‑K for the fiscal year ended June 29, 2018. The results of operations for interim periods are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for the full year.
On August 29, 2018, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2018-15, “Customer’s Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That Is a Service Contract” (“ASU 2018-15”), to reduce diversity in practice in accounting for the costs of implementing cloud computing arrangements that are service contracts. ASU 2018-15 allows entities to apply the guidance in the FASB Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 350-40 to determine which implementation costs are eligible to be capitalized as assets in a cloud computing arrangement that is considered a service contract. The Company adopted this standard on a prospective basis effective June 30, 2018, the beginning of fiscal year 2019, as allowed by the standard. This standard did not have a material impact on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements upon adoption or for the three months ended September 28, 2018.
The Company recognizes revenue when it satisfies a performance obligation by transferring control over a product or service to the customer. The transaction price to be recognized as revenue is adjusted for variable consideration, such as sales incentives, and excludes amounts collected on behalf of third parties, including taxes imposed by governmental authorities. The Company’s performance obligations are typically not constrained based on the Company’s history with similar transactions and that uncertainties are resolved in a fairly short period of time.
Substantially all of the Company’s revenue is from the sale of tangible products for which the performance obligations are satisfied at a point in time, generally upon delivery. The Company’s services revenue mainly includes post contract customer support, warranty as a service and maintenance contracts.  The performance obligations for the Company’s services are generally satisfied ratably over the service period based on the nature of the service provided and contract terms. Similarly, revenue from patent licensing arrangements is recognized based on whether the arrangement provides the customer a right to use or right to access the IP. Revenue for a right to use arrangement is recognized at the time the control of the license is transferred to the customer. Revenue for a right to access arrangement is recognized over the contract period using the time lapse method. For the sales-based royalty arrangements, the Company estimates and recognizes revenue in the period in which customers’ licensable sales occur.
Contract assets represent the Company’s rights to consideration where performance obligations are completed but the customer payments are not due until another performance obligation is satisfied. The Company did not have any contract assets as of either September 28, 2018 or the date of adoption of Topic 606. 
The Company incurs sales commissions and other direct incremental costs to obtain sales contracts. The Company has applied the practical expedient to recognize the direct incremental costs of obtaining contracts as an expense when incurred if the amortization period is expected to be one year or less or the amount is not material, with these costs charged to selling, general and administrative expenses. Prior to the adoption of the new revenue standard, the Company’s policy was to expense all contract acquisition costs as incurred. Other direct incremental costs to obtain contracts that have an expected benefit of greater than one year are amortized over the period of expected cash flows from the related contracts, and the amortization expense is recorded as a reduction to revenue. Total capitalized contract costs and the related amortization as of and for the three months ended September 28, 2018 were not material.
Contract liabilities relate to customers’ payments in advance of performance under the contract and primarily relate to remaining performance obligations under support and maintenance contracts. As of September 28, 2018 and the date of adoption of Topic 606, contract liabilities were $86 million and $120 million, respectively, and were reflected in Accrued expenses. Changes in the contract liability balance during the three months ended September 28, 2018 were primarily the result of $41 million of revenue recognized during the period that was deferred at June 29, 2018, partially offset by payments received and billings in advance of satisfying performance obligations.
For the three months ended September 28, 2018 and September 29, 2017, two customers accounted for 11% and 10%, respectively, of the Company’s net revenue. For the three months ended September 28, 2018 and September 29, 2017, the Company’s top 10 customers accounted for 48% and 42% of the Company’s net revenue, respectively.
From time to time, in connection with factoring agreements, the Company sells trade accounts receivable without recourse to third party purchasers in exchange for cash. During the three months ended September 28, 2018, the Company sold trade accounts receivable and received cash proceeds of $243 million. The discounts on the trade accounts receivable sold during the period were not material and were recorded within Other expense, net in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. During the three months ended September 29, 2017, the Company did not sell any trade accounts receivable.
Level 2.Inputs other than Level 1 that are observable, either directly or indirectly, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.
The carrying value of the Company’s revolving credit facility approximates its fair value given the revolving nature of the balance and the variable market interest rate. For financial instruments where the carrying value (which includes principal adjusted for any unamortized issuance costs, and discounts or premiums) differs from fair value (which is based on quoted market prices), the following table represents the related carrying value and fair value for each of the Company’s outstanding financial instruments. Each of the financial instruments presented below was categorized as Level 2 for all periods presented, based on the frequency of trading immediately prior to the end of the first quarter of 2019 and the fourth quarter of 2018, respectively. 
Changes in fair values of the non-designated foreign exchange contracts are recognized in Other expense, net and are largely offset by corresponding changes in the fair values of the foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities. For each of the three-month periods ended September 28, 2018 and September 29, 2017, total net realized and unrealized transaction and foreign exchange contract currency gains and losses were not material to the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Company has pension and other post-retirement benefit plans in various countries. The Company’s principal pension plans are in Japan. All pension and other post-retirement benefit plans outside of the Company’s Japanese defined benefit pension plan (the “Japanese Plan”) are immaterial to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. The expected long-term rate of return on the Japanese Plan assets is 2.5%.
The Company assesses financing receivable credit quality through financial and operational reviews of the borrower and creditworthiness, including credit rating agency ratings, of significant investors of the borrower, where material or known. There were no impairments in the three months ended September 28, 2018 or September 29, 2017.
Flash Ventures sells to and leases back from a consortium of financial institutions a portion of its tools and has entered into equipment lease agreements of which the Company guarantees half or all of the outstanding obligations under each lease agreement. The lease agreements contain customary covenants for Japanese lease facilities. In addition to containing customary events of default related to Flash Ventures that could result in an acceleration of Flash Ventures’ obligations, the lease agreements contain acceleration clauses for certain events of default related to the guarantors, including the Company. 


item2.txt
The flash industry is characterized by cyclicality as it responds to variations in customers’ demand for products and manages production capacity to meet that demand. The favorable demand environment for flash-based products during the last several quarters has begun to normalize as technology conversions are maturing and manufacturing yields are improving, thus increasing flash supply relative to demand. As a result, average selling price per gigabyte of flash-based products has declined.
Through our strategic partnership with Toshiba Memory Corporation (“TMC”) referred to as “Flash Ventures”, we and TMC operate flash-based memory wafer manufacturing facilities in Yokkaichi, Japan. We are obligated to purchase half of Flash Ventures’ flash-based memory wafer supply or pay for half of Flash Ventures’ fixed costs regardless of the output we choose to purchase. We are also obligated to fund 49.9% to 50% of Flash Ventures’ investments to the extent that Flash Ventures’ operating cash flow is insufficient to fund these investments.
In response to the current flash business conditions, we expect to reduce wafer starts and delay deployment of capital equipment for flash production. We expect these actions to reduce our planned flash output by approximately 10% to 15% for calendar year 2019. The goal of these actions is to bring our supply more in line with the demand environment, with the majority of the supply reduction occurring by the middle of calendar year 2019. We do not expect this action to result in any incremental cash payments; however, we expect the temporary abnormal reduction in output to result in flash manufacturing underutilization charges to be recorded in cost of sales in the range of $250 million to $300 million spread over the remainder of fiscal 2019. We may adjust our plans based on market conditions, which could impact the timing and amount of any charges.


item3.txt
Borrowings under our revolving credit facility and our term loan A-1 due 2023 bear interest at a rate per annum, at our option, of either an adjusted London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) (subject to a 0.0% floor) plus an applicable margin varying from 1.125% to 2.000% or a base rate plus an applicable margin varying from 0.125% to 1.000%, in each case depending on our corporate credit ratings. As of September 28, 2018, the applicable margin based on our current credit ratings was 1.5%. Borrowings under our U.S. Term Loan B-4 due 2023 bear interest at a rate per annum, at our option, of either an adjusted LIBOR (subject to a 0.0% floor) plus a margin of 1.75% or a base rate plus a margin of 0.75%. 


item4.txt
Item 4.Mine Safety Disclosures 


part2.txt
•If negative or uncertain global economic conditions result in circumstances, such as a sustained decline in our stock price and market capitalization or a decrease in our forecasted cash flows, indicating that the carrying value of our long-lived assets or goodwill may be impaired, we could be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our Consolidated Financial Statements.
We are dependent on our ventures with TMC to develop and manufacture flash-based memory products for our flash-based memory supply, and therefore our business, financial condition and operating results are dependent on the continued success of Flash Ventures. We partner with TMC on the development of flash-based technology, including the next technology transitions of flash-based memory, as well as other non-volatile memory technology in support of Flash Ventures. Flash Ventures is subject to various risks that could harm the value of our investments, our revenue and costs, our future rate of spending, our technology plans and our future growth opportunities.
Substantially all of our flash-based memory is supplied by Flash Ventures, which limits our ability to respond to market demand and supply changes. A failure to accurately forecast demand could cause us to over-invest or under-invest in technology transitions or the expansion of captive memory capacity in Flash Ventures. Over-investment could result in excess supply, which could cause significant decreases in our product prices, significant excess, obsolete inventory or inventory write-downs or under-utilization charges, and the potential impairment of our investments in Flash Ventures. On the other hand, if we or TMC under-invest in captive memory capacity or technology transitions, if we grow capacity more slowly than the rest of the industry, if our technology transitions do not occur on the timeline that we expect, if we encounter unanticipated difficulties in implementing these transitions, or if we implement technology transitions more slowly than our competitors, we may not have enough captive supply of the right type of memory or at all to meet demand on a timely and cost effective basis and we may lose opportunities for revenue, gross margin and market share as a result. If our flash-based memory supply is limited, we may make strategic decisions with respect to the allocation of our supply among our products and customers, and these strategic allocation decisions may result in less favorable gross margin or damage certain customer relationships. We are also contractually obligated to pay for 50% of the fixed costs of Flash Ventures regardless of whether we purchase any wafers from Flash Ventures. Furthermore, purchase orders placed with Flash Ventures and under the foundry arrangements with TMC for up to three months are binding and cannot be canceled. Therefore, once our purchase decisions have been made, our production costs for flash memory are fixed, and we may be unable to reduce costs to match any subsequent declines in pricing or demand, which would harm our gross margin. Our limited ability to react to fluctuations in flash memory supply and demand makes our financial results particularly susceptible to variations from our forecasts and expectations.
TMC has announced that it is starting construction of a new wafer fabrication facility for the manufacture of 3D NAND in Kitakami, Iwate, Japan. Although we intend to enter into agreements with TMC in due course to participate in the new Kitakami facility, there is no certainty as to when, and on what terms, we will do so. If we are unable to extend our partnership with TMC to the Kitakami facility on favorable terms, our future supply of captive flash-based memory could be adversely impacted, which could adversely affect our long-term business and financial results. 
In addition, we compete based on our ability to offer our customers competitive solutions that provide the most current and desired product and service features. We expect that competition will continue to be intense, and there is a risk that our competitors may be able to gain a technological or cost structure advantage over us, which may allow their products to be less costly or enable them to provide better performance or to include additional features when compared to our products. Further, some of our competitors may utilize certain pricing strategies, including offering products at prices at or below cost, that we may be unable to competitively match. In addition, the Chinese government and various agencies, state-owned or affiliated enterprises and investment funds are making significant investments to promote China’s domestic semiconductor industry consistent with the government’s stated national policy objectives. If we are unable to effectively compete with any manufacturers located in China or non-Chinese competitors benefitting from alliances with Chinese companies in the markets where we compete, our operating results and financial condition will suffer. 
The storage markets in which we offer our products continuously undergo technology transitions that we must anticipate and adapt our products to address in a timely manner. If we fail to implement new technologies successfully, or if we are slower than our competitors at implementing new technologies, we may not be able to competitively offer products that our customers desire or keep pace with ASP reduction, which could harm our operating results. For example, in transitioning our 2D NAND manufacturing capacity to 3D NAND technology, we could experience delays or other challenges in the production ramp, qualification of wafers, shipment of samples to customers or customer approval process. 3D NAND and any new manufacturing node may be more susceptible to manufacturing yield issues. Manufacturing yield issues may not be identified during the development or production process or solved until an actual product is manufactured and tested, further increasing our costs. If our technology transitions, including the production ramp of 3D NAND technology, take longer, are more costly to complete than anticipated, or do not improve manufacturing yield or other manufacturing efficiencies, our flash memory costs may not remain competitive with other flash-based memory producers or may not fall commensurate with declines in the price of flash-based memory, which would harm revenues, our gross margin and operating results. 
For additional technology transition risks related to 3D NAND, see the risk factors entitled “We rely substantially on our business ventures with Toshiba Memory Corporation (“TMC”) for the supply of flash-based memory and the development of flash-based technology, which subjects us to risks and uncertainties that could harm our business, financial condition and operating results” and “Our strategic relationships subject us to risks that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.”
There are some revolutionary technologies that, if implemented by a competitor on a commercially viable basis ahead of the industry, could put us at a competitive disadvantage, including shingled magnetic recording, energy-assisted magnetic recording, patterned magnetic media and advanced signal processing.
Many companies, including some of our competitors, have also developed or are attempting to develop alternative non-volatile technologies, including non-NAND technologies such as magnetoresistive random-access memory (MRAM), resistive random-access memory (ReRAM) and phase change memory (PCM), and NAND-based vertical or stacked 3D memories based on charge trap, floating gate and other cell architectures.
Because we are dependent on a limited number of qualified suppliers, a disruption in our supply chain, including a shortage in supply or a supplier’s failure to support us in a timely manner with goods or services at a quality level and cost acceptable to us, or supplier consolidation, could adversely affect our margins, revenues and operating results.


