fls.txt



item1.txt
Our success depends upon the efforts and abilities of our senior management, engineering, manufacturing and other personnel.
This could result in reduced revenues and profits and the cancellation of orders or loss of customers.
We may suffer loss of key employees, customers and strategic partners of acquired companies and it may be difficult to implement our corporate culture at acquired companies.
We may have difficulty in developing, manufacturing and marketing the products of a newly acquired company, or in growing the business at the rate we anticipate.
In addition to local jurisdictions' trade regulations, our U.S.-manufactured products or products based on U.S. technology are subject to U.S. laws and regulations governing international trade, including, but not limited to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, Export Administration Regulations (EAR), International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) and trade sanctions against embargoed countries and denied entities administered by the U.S. Department of the Treasury, Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC).
Our relationships with customers and suppliers may be adversely affected if we are unable to certify that our products are "conflict-free."
Additionally, operations at our customers and licensees may be disrupted for a number of reasons.
Noncompliance by us with the conditions of the grants could result in our forfeiture of all or a portion of any future amounts to be received, as well as the repayment of all or a portion of amounts received to date.
We use forward currency exchange contracts in an attempt to reduce the adverse earnings impact from the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on our non-U.S. dollar net balance sheet exposures.
We expect to pay approximately $1.2 million in fiscal 2019 for benefits earned.


item2.txt
We operate in two industry segments and engage primarily in the design, development, manufacture and sale of semiconductor products as well as the licensing of our SuperFlash and other technologies.
We are committed to continuing our investment in new and enhanced products, including development systems, and in our design and manufacturing process technologies.
We routinely evaluated the risk of impairment of the deferred cost of sales component of the deferred income on shipments to distributors account.
In addition, we expect to be impacted by the limitations on the deductibility of interest expense, which we expect to generate disallowed interest expense carryforwards in future periods, causing an increase in our overall deferred tax asset position.
We operate assembly and test facilities in Thailand and the Philippines.
At this time, we do not know what the outcome of these audits will be.
Third-party contractors located primarily in Asia perform the balance of our assembly operations.
We sell our products to a broad base of domestic and international customers across a variety of industries.
Technology licensing accounted for approximately 2.2% of our net sales for the three-month period ended June 30, 2018 compared to approximately 2.6% of our net sales for the three-month period ended June 30, 2017.
Although none of the countries in which we conduct significant foreign operations has had a highly inflationary economy in the last five years, there is no assurance that inflation rates or fluctuations in foreign currency rates in countries where we conduct operations will not adversely affect our operating results in the future.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Third-party service providers, such as wafer foundries, assembly and test contractors, distributors, credit card processors and other vendors have access to certain portions of our and our customers' sensitive data.
Further, where we do not have negotiated contracts with our customers, the terms of our customer's orders may govern the transaction and contain terms that are not favorable to us.
Refer to Note 2 to our condensed consolidated financial statements for additional information on the new guidance and its expected impact on us.
We may be subject to claims if our products, or the integration of our products, cause system failures.
If operations at any of our facilities, or our subcontractors' facilities are interrupted, we may not be able to shift production to other facilities on a timely basis, and we may need to spend significant amounts to repair or replace our facilities and equipment.
The conversion of some or all of our outstanding debentures will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders to the extent we deliver common stock upon conversion of the debentures.
We may need or desire to refinance our convertible debt, senior debt, term loan debt or any other future indebtedness and there can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, if at all.
We may also have continuing obligations for pre-existing liabilities related to the assets or businesses.
We may not be able to successfully or profitably integrate, operate, maintain and manage any newly acquired operations or employees.
Historically, average selling prices in the semiconductor industry decrease over the life of any particular product.


