fls.txt



item1.txt
Interruptions in our IT systems, unauthorized access to our IT systems or improper handling of data, could adversely affect our business.
In addition to local jurisdictions' trade regulations, our U.S.-manufactured products or products based on U.S. technology are subject to U.S. laws and regulations governing international trade, including, but not limited to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, Export Administration Regulations, International Traffic in Arms Regulations and trade sanctions against embargoed countries and denied entities administered by the U.S. Department of the Treasury, Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC).
Purchased intangible assets include core and developed technology, in-process research and development, customer-related intangibles, acquisition-date backlog and other intangible assets.
Because turns orders are difficult to predict, varying levels of turns orders make it more difficult to forecast net sales.
Our semiconductor manufacturing operations require raw and processed materials and equipment that must meet exacting standards.
We have contracts with certain customers that differ from our standard terms of sale.
The liability for restructuring and other exit costs of $32.1 million is included in accrued liabilities and other long-term liabilities, on the Company's consolidated balance sheets as of June 30, 2019.
The occurrence of an event of default could result in the acceleration of the obligations under the Credit Agreement.
Our ability to make scheduled payments of principal, to pay interest on or to refinance our indebtedness, including our outstanding convertible debt and debt incurred to finance our acquisition of Microsemi, depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors.
As required by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, in August 2012, the SEC released investigation, disclosure and reporting requirements regarding the use of "conflict" minerals mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries and which are necessary to the functionality or production of products.
Climate change regulations at the federal, state or local level or in international jurisdictions could require us to limit emissions, change our manufacturing processes, obtain substitute materials which may cost more or be less available, increase our investment in control technology for greenhouse gas emissions, fund offset projects or undertake other costly activities.
In January 2016, the Company's Board of Directors authorized an increase to the existing share repurchase program to 15.0 million shares of common stock.
On March 4, 2014, LFR and Jean-Yves Guerrini, individually and on behalf of a putative class of LFR employees, filed an action in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York (the "District Court") against the Company's Atmel subsidiary, French subsidiary, Atmel Rousset S.A.S.
The Company recognized an immaterial amount of net losses and gains on foreign currency forward contracts in each of the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018.
Even though we had over 122,000 customers and our ten largest direct customers made up approximately 12% of our total revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2019 and six of our top ten direct customers are contract manufacturers that perform manufacturing services for many customers, cancellation of customer contracts could have an adverse impact on our revenue and profits.


item2.txt
Microcontrollers and associated application development systems accounted for approximately 53.6% of our net sales for the three-month period ended June 30, 2019 compared to approximately 59.6% of our net sales for the three-month period ended June 30, 2018.
As reported in our March 31, 2019 Form 10-K, we learned of an ongoing compromise of our computer networks by what is believed to be sophisticated hackers.
We currently intend to spend between $110 million and $130 million during the next twelve months to invest in equipment and facilities.
LMO net sales can fluctuate over time based on general economic and semiconductor industry conditions as well as changes in demand for our licenses, engineering services, memory products, and manufacturing services (wafer foundry and assembly and test subcontracting).
We believe our existing level of inventory will allow us to maintain competitive lead times and provide strong delivery performance to our customers.
The losses on the available for sale investments were due to the liquidation of these investments in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 to fund our acquisition of Microsemi.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
In addition, the existence of the debentures may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the debentures could be used to satisfy short positions, or anticipated conversion of the debentures into shares of our common stock could depress the price of our common stock.
Furthermore, changes to the taxation of undistributed foreign earnings could change our future intentions regarding reinvestment of such earnings.
We have taken steps to attempt to mitigate the costs of these tariffs on our business.
In particular, in periods when a foreign currency significantly declines in value in relation to the U.S. dollar, customers transacting in that foreign currency may find it more difficult to fulfill their previously committed contractual obligations or to undertake new obligations to make payments or purchase products.
We may be subject to claims if our products, or the integration of our products, cause system failures.
Some of our customers and potential customers are requiring that we implement operating practices that are more stringent than what is required by applicable laws with respect to workplace and labor requirements, the type of materials we use in our products, environmental matters or other items.
There is a continuing expansion in environmental laws with a focus on reducing or eliminating hazardous substances and substances of high concern in electronic products and shipping materials.
We may lose sales if suppliers of raw materials, components or equipment fail to meet our or our customers' needs or increase costs due to increased tariffs or other factors.


