fls.txt



item1.txt
Our failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in fines, suspension of production, cessation of operations or future liabilities.
Refer to Note 15 to our condensed consolidated financial statements for information regarding legal proceedings.
We are dependent on wafer foundries and other contractors to perform key manufacturing functions for us, and our licensees of our SuperFlash and other technologies also rely on foundries and other contractors.
Such disruption could result in a loss of our intellectual property or the release of sensitive competitive information or supplier, customer or employee personal data.
In connection with our acquisition of Atmel, we assumed unfunded defined benefit pension plans that cover certain of our French and German employees.
The loss of, or any inability to attract personnel, even if not key personnel, if experienced in sufficient numbers could harm our business.
We are subject to stringent environmental and other regulations, which may force us to incur significant expenses.
We review our indefinite-lived intangible assets, including goodwill, for impairment annually in the fourth fiscal quarter or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of those assets is more likely than not impaired.
Our relationships with customers and suppliers may be adversely affected if we are unable to certify that our products are "conflict-free."
Third-party service providers, such as wafer foundries, assembly and test contractors, distributors, credit card processors and other vendors have access to certain portions of our and our customers' sensitive data.


item2.txt
This value is identified as provisional in our condensed consolidated financial statements for the period ended December 31, 2017, and is subject to future measurement period adjustments in accordance with SAB 118.
The acquisition was structured in a manner that enabled us to utilize a substantial portion of the cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and long-term investments held by certain of our foreign subsidiaries in a tax efficient manner.
Our domestic statutory tax rate for the nine months ended December 31, 2017 was approximately 33% and our domestic statutory tax rate for fiscal 2017 was approximately 37%.
Technology licensing accounted for approximately 2.8% and 2.6% of our net sales for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017, respectively, compared to approximately 2.9% and 2.7% of our net sales for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2016, respectively.
The primary reason for the increases in interest expense in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017 compared to the same periods last year relates primarily to the issuance of our 2017 senior and junior debt partially offset by lower interest expense on amounts borrowed under our credit facility.
See Note 13 of the notes to consolidated financial statements for more information regarding our credit agreement.
Sales to foreign customers accounted for approximately 85% of our total net sales in each of the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017 compared to approximately 83% and 84% of our total net sales in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2016, respectively.
The corporate tax rate reduction is effective as of January 1, 2018.
Approximately 43% and 42% of our net sales came from products that were produced at outside wafer foundries in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017, respectively, and approximately 42% and 41% of our net sales came from products that were produced at outside wafer foundries in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2016, respectively.
Substantially all of our foreign sales are U.S. dollar denominated.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Our success depends on our ability to introduce new products on a timely basis.
Our business is dependent on selling through distributors.
We expect to pay approximately $0.7 million in fiscal 2018 for benefits earned.
Further, any sustained adverse change in climate could have a direct adverse economic impact on us, such as water and power shortages, and higher costs of water or energy to control the temperature of our facilities.
For several of the significant markets that we sell into, such as the automotive and personal computer markets, our current or potential customers may possess significant leverage over us in negotiating the terms and conditions of supply as a result of their market size and position.
Although we operated at normal capacity levels during fiscal 2017 and the first three quarters of fiscal 2018, there can be no assurance that such production levels will be maintained in future periods.
Our suppliers may refuse to implement these operating practices, or may charge us more for complying with them.
While our facilities in Thailand have continued to operate normally, there can be no assurance that any future flooding in Thailand would not have a material adverse impact on our operations.
To fund our acquisition of Atmel, we used a significant portion of our cash balances, borrowed under our credit agreement and issued approximately 10.1 million shares of our common stock.
Operations at any of our facilities, at the facilities of any of our wafer fabrication or assembly and test subcontractors, or at any of our significant vendors or customers may be disrupted for reasons beyond our control.


