fls.txt



item1.txt
We have been and may in the future be subject to claims from terminated employees, shareholders of Microchip or the acquired companies and other third parties related to the transaction.
These accounting principles are subject to interpretation or changes by the FASB and the SEC.
We may suffer loss of key employees, customers and strategic partners of acquired companies and it may be difficult to implement our corporate culture at acquired companies.
A determination by the U.S. or foreign government that we have failed to comply with trade or export regulations or anti-bribery regulations can result in penalties which may include denial of export privileges, fines, civil or criminal penalties, and seizure of products.
While we try to minimize the number of contracts which contain such provisions, manage the risks underlying such liabilities, and set caps on our liability exposure, sometimes we are not able to do so.
Further, any sustained adverse change in climate could have a direct adverse economic impact on us, such as water and power shortages, and higher costs of water or energy to control the temperature of our facilities.
In the event that these service providers do not properly safeguard the data that they hold, security breaches and loss of data could result.
The U.S. government and its contractors may terminate their contracts with Microsemi or us at any time.
We have insurance contracts with independent insurance companies related to many different types of risk; however, we self-insure for some potentially significant risks and obligations.
If the U.S. government fails to complete its annual budget process or to provide for a continuing resolution to fund government operations, another federal government shutdown may soon occur, during which time we may experience further delays and reductions in appropriations or reductions in or terminations of government contracts or subcontracts, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results.


item2.txt
Although none of the countries in which we conduct significant foreign operations has had a highly inflationary economy in the last five years, there is no assurance that inflation rates or fluctuations in foreign currency rates in countries where we conduct operations will not adversely affect our operating results in the future.
As we concluded with our measurement period in accordance with SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin ("SAB") 118, we finalized our calculations of the transition tax expense during the period ended December 31, 2018.
Our overall inventory levels were $702.5 million at December 31, 2018, compared to $476.2 million at March 31, 2018.
The effect of granting these credits established the net selling price to our distributors for the product and resulted in the net revenue recognized by us when the product was sold by the distributors to their end customers.
The primary reason for the increases in acquired intangible asset amortization was increased amortization from our acquisition of Microsemi partially offset by decreased amortization of intangible assets from our prior acquisitions.
Contingencies of an acquired company that exist as of the date of the acquisition are measured at fair value if determinable, which generally is based on a probability weighted model.
In addition to the consideration transferred, we recognized in our consolidated financial statements $3.18 billion in liabilities of Microsemi consisting of debt, taxes payable and deferred, pension obligations, restructuring, and contingent and other liabilities of which $2.06 billion of existing debt was paid off.
We plan to continue to transition certain outsourced assembly and test capacity to our internal facilities.
adoption of Topic 606 on April 1, 2018, we are required to recognize revenue from distributors at the time our products are sold to the distributor.
This practice has an adverse impact on the working capital of our distributors.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
We may also incur increases in manufacturing costs in mitigating the impact of tariffs on our operations.
If upon conversion we elect to deliver cash for the lesser of the conversion value and principal amount of the debentures, we would pay the holder the cash value of the applicable number of shares of our common stock.
Since our adoption of ASU 2014-09, which began with our fiscal year commencing on April 1, 2018, we no longer defer revenue until sale by the distributor to the end customer, but rather, are required to estimate the effects of returns and allowances provided to distributors and record revenue at the time of sale to the distributor.
Reliance on government contracts and sales to governmental agencies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.
Violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or similar laws, by our distributors or other channel partners could have a material adverse impact on our business.
Refer to Note 15 to our condensed consolidated financial statements for information regarding legal proceedings.
In addition, we anticipate increased customer requirements to meet voluntary criteria related to the reduction or elimination of substances of high concern in our products, energy efficiency measures, and supplier practices associated with sourcing and manufacturing.
We filed a report on Form SD with the SEC regarding such matters on May 23, 2018.
Because turns orders are difficult to predict, varying levels of turns orders make it more difficult to forecast net sales.
If we make changes to materials or suppliers, there will likely be costs associated with qualifying new suppliers and production capacity and quality could be negatively impacted.


