fls.txt



item1.txt
We may be subject to claims if our products, or the integration of our products, cause system failures.
The standard did not materially affect the condensed consolidated statements of income and had no impact on the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows.
exception of consideration from certain distributors.
The Company is not able to estimate future expenses, if any, to be incurred in employee separation costs.
In the event that these service providers do not properly safeguard the data that they hold, security breaches and loss of data could result.
September 30, 2018 were not meaningful due to the amount of pre-tax income, and income tax benefits recorded during the period.
Through September 30, 2019, the Company has never recorded an impairment charge against its goodwill balance.
Our income tax obligations could be affected by many factors, including but not limited to changes to our corporate operating structure, intercompany arrangements and tax planning strategies.
In fiscal 2019, we recognized $3.1 million of intangible asset impairment charges.
The materials and equipment necessary for our business could become more difficult to obtain as worldwide use of semiconductors in product applications increases.
•a requirement to pay damages or penalties.
Due to the types of products we sell and the significant amount of sales we make to government agencies or customers whose principal sales are to U.S. government agencies, we expect to continue to be the target of attacks on our data, attempts to breach our security and attempts to introduce malicious software into our IT systems.
A large portion of our finished goods inventory is maintained in Thailand.
We may have difficulty in developing, manufacturing and marketing the products of a newly acquired company, or in growing the business at the rate we anticipate.
In connection with the completion of our acquisition of Microsemi in May 2018, our balance of goodwill and intangible assets increased significantly.


item2.txt
We utilize RSUs as our primary equity incentive compensation instrument for employees.
The principal markets that we serve include consumer, automotive, industrial, aerospace, office communication, and computing.
For further details, see the discussion in Note 3 of our condensed consolidated financial statements included in this report.
The ownership of a substantial portion of our manufacturing resources is an important component of our business strategy, enabling us to maintain a high level of manufacturing control resulting in us being one of the lowest cost producers in the embedded control industry.
We believe that our existing sources of liquidity combined with cash generated from operations and borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility will be sufficient to meet our currently anticipated cash requirements for at least the next 12 months.
In September 2019, we amended our credit agreement dated May 29, 2018, to, among other things, reduce the margin added to the interest rate on revolving loans under the Credit Agreement.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
In particular, we have recently experienced longer lead times for equipment which we need for capacity expansion at certain of our manufacturing facilities.
As is typical in the semiconductor industry, we receive notifications from third parties from time to time who believe that we owe them indemnification or other obligations related to claims made against us, our direct or indirect customers or our licensees.
On May 29, 2018, we completed our acquisition of Microsemi, which was our largest and most complex acquisition ever.
In addition, we anticipate increased customer requirements to meet voluntary criteria related to the reduction or elimination of substances of high concern in our products, energy efficiency measures, and supplier practices associated with sourcing and manufacturing.
From time to time, we receive economic incentive grants and allowances from European governments, agencies and research organizations targeted at increasing employment at specific locations.
In certain periods in fiscal 2019, we operated at below normal capacity levels resulting in an unabsorbed capacity charge of $19.0 million.
The manufacture and assembly of integrated circuits, particularly non-volatile, erasable CMOS memory and logic devices such as those that we produce, are complex processes.
Our reliance on third party contractors and foundries increased as a result of our acquisitions of Microsemi, Atmel, Micrel and other companies.


