fls.txt



item1.txt
If we are unable to supply the customer as required under the contract, the customer may incur additional production costs, lost revenues due to subsequent delays in their own manufacturing schedule, or quality-related issues.
The materials, components and equipment necessary for their businesses could become more difficult to obtain for various reasons not limited to business interruptions of suppliers, consolidation in their supply chain due to mergers and acquisitions, or application of trade restrictions or tariffs that impair sourcing flexibility or increase costs.
•changes in tax regulations and policies in the U.S. and other countries in which we do business including the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the Act);
Furthermore, changes to the taxation of undistributed foreign earnings could change our future intentions regarding reinvestment of such earnings.
Sales through distributors accounted for approximately 51% of our net sales in the first six months of fiscal 2019 and approximately 54% of our net sales in fiscal 2018.
We may lose sales if suppliers of raw materials, components or equipment fail to meet our or our customers' needs or increase costs.
We purchase a substantial portion of our raw materials and equipment from foreign suppliers.
For several of the significant markets that we sell into, such as the automotive and personal computer markets, our current or potential customers may possess significant leverage over us in negotiating the terms and conditions of supply as a result of their market size and position.
Developing, administering, monitoring and auditing these customer-requested practices at our own sites and those in our supply chain will increase our costs and may require that we hire more personnel.
Should legislative regulations require complete or partial funding of these plans in the future, it could negatively affect our cash position and operating capital.


item2.txt
During the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, we de-recognized $4.1 million in deferred financing fees in connection with early pay downs of a portion of the outstanding balance on our Term Loan Facility and our Revolving Credit Facility.
During the three and six months ended September 30, 2017, our wafer fabrication facilities and assembly and test facilities operated at normal capacity levels.
Sales to foreign customers accounted for approximately 80% and 82% of our total net sales in the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 compared to approximately 84% of our total net sales in each of the three and six months ended September 30, 2017.
Share-based compensation cost is measured on the grant date based on the fair market value of our common stock discounted for expected future dividends and is recognized as expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service periods.
We believe our existing level of inventory will allow us to maintain competitive lead times and provide strong delivery performance to our customers.
Our current research and development activities focus on the design of new microcontrollers, digital signal controllers, memory, analog and mixed-signal products, FPGA's, timing systems, Flash-IP, development systems, software and application-specific software libraries.
Microsemi offers a comprehensive portfolio of semiconductor and system solutions for aerospace and defense, communications, data center and industrial markets.
We do not expect the future expiration of any of our tax holiday periods in Thailand to have a material impact on our effective tax rate.
In order to remain competitive, we must constantly evaluate the need to make significant investments in capital equipment for both production and research and development.
We financed the purchase price using approximately $8.10 billion of borrowings consisting of $3.10 billion under our Credit Facility, $3.00 billion under the term loan feature of the Credit Facility ("Term Loan Facility"), and $2.00 billion in newly issued senior secured notes.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
There is a continuing expansion in environmental laws with a focus on reducing or eliminating hazardous substances and substances of high concern in electronic products and shipping materials.
Turns orders correlate to overall semiconductor industry conditions and product lead times.
We regularly review the financial performance of our licensees, customers, distributors and suppliers.
When we do enter into customer contracts, the contract is generally cancelable at the convenience of the customer.
We do have liability insurance which covers certain damages arising out of product defects, but we do not expect that insurance will cover all claims or be of a sufficient amount to fully protect against such claims.
As a result of such transactions, we have a substantially greater amount of debt than we had maintained in the past.
•market acceptance of our customers' end products.
•a requirement to pay damages or penalties.
These processes are sensitive to a wide variety of factors, including the level of contaminants in the manufacturing environment, impurities in the materials used, the performance of our wafer fabrication and assembly and test personnel and equipment, and other quality issues.
Noncompliance by us with the conditions of the grants could result in our forfeiture of all or a portion of any future amounts to be received, as well as the repayment of all or a portion of amounts received to date.


