The accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements of Preformed Line Products Company and subsidiaries (the “Company” or “PLPC”) have been prepared in accordance with United States of America (U.S.) generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X.
Operating results for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the full-year ending December 31, 2018.
For further information, refer to the consolidated financial statements and notes to consolidated financial statements included in the Company’s 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on March 9, 2018 with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
All revenue is recognized when the Company satisfies the performance obligations under the contract and control of the product is transferred to the customer, primarily based on shipping terms.
Cost of inventories for certain material is determined using the last-in-first-out (LIFO) method and totaled approximately $25.8 million at September 30, 2018 and $25.1 million at December 31, 2017.
An actual valuation of inventories under the LIFO method can be made only at the end of the year based on the inventory levels and costs at that time.
During the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018, the net change in LIFO inventories resulted in $.6 million and $1.1 million of expense, respectively, to Income before income taxes.
During the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2017, the net change in LIFO inventories resulted in a less than $.1 million and $.2 million of expense, respectively, to Income before income taxes.
The Company and its subsidiaries Helix Uniformed Ltd. (“Helix”) and Preformed Line Products (Canada) Limited (“PLPC Canada”), were each named, jointly and severally, with each of SNC-Lavalin ATP, Inc. (“SNC ATP”), HD Supply Canada Inc., by its trade names HD Supply Power Solutions and HD Supply Utilities (“HD Supply”), and Anixter Power Solutions Canada Inc. (the corporate successor to HD Supply, “Anixter” and, together with the Company, PLPC Canada, Helix, SNC ATP and HD Supply, the The Company does not plan to contribute additional funds to the Plan during the remainder of 2018.
Basic earnings per share were computed by dividing Net income by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding for each respective period.
Diluted earnings per share were calculated by dividing Net income by the weighted-average of all potentially dilutive common stock that was outstanding during the periods presented.The segment managers responsible for each region report directly to the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, who is the chief operating decision maker, and are accountable for the financial results and performance of their entire segment for which they are responsible.
The business components within each segment are managed to maximize the results of the entire operating segment and Company rather than the results of any individual business component of the segment.
Costs and expenses of $25.5 million increased $1.8 million compared to 2017, including a favorable impact from currency translation of $1.9 million.
The effect of currency translation had favorable impacts on operating income of $.5 million and net income of $.3 million, respectively.
Net sales for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 of $315.5 million increased $34.1 million, or 12.1%, compared to the same period in 2017.
Costs and expenses of $75.1 million increased $5.6 million compared to 2017 which included a favorable impact from currency translation of $1.5 million.
The following table sets forth a summary of the Company’s Statements of Consolidated Income and the percentage of net sales for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017.