 Stock-based compensation expense was $93,360 for the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019, and $40,920 for the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2018.
We adopted ASU 2016-15 retrospectively in the quarter ended  June 30, 2018.
The increase in stock-based compensation expense for fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018 was due to an increase in the model valuation for the same number of options to purchase shares.
We recognize any such commissions as selling, general, and administrative expenses.
 Our performance obligations related to product sales and contract research and development contracts are satisfied in one year or less.
 We develop and sell devices that use spintronics, a nanotechnology that relies on electron spin rather than electron charge to acquire, store, and transmit information.
We adopted ASU 2018-13 early, effective the quarter ended  September 30, 2018.
Early adoption is permitted, and we adopted ASU 2018-02 in the quarter ended  June 30, 2018.
We did not repurchase any of our Common Stock under the program during the quarter ended  September 30, 2018.
 The Act “To provide for reconciliation pursuant to titles II and V of the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2018” (the “Tax Reform Act”) was enacted  December 22, 2017.
 We recognize revenue when we satisfy performance obligations by the transfer of control of products or services to our customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those products or services.
 We recognize contract research and development revenue over a period of time as the performance obligation is satisfied over a period of time rather than a point in time.
ASU 2014-09 is based on the principle that revenue is recognized to depict the transfer of goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
A contract asset is recognized when we have a right to consideration from the transfer of goods or services to a customer but have not completed our performance obligation.
Marketable securities as of  September 30, 2018 had remaining maturities between one and 55 months.
A contract liability is recognized when we have been paid by a customer but have not yet satisfied the performance obligation by transferring goods or services.
As permitted under Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, we are using the practical expedient not to disclose the value of these unsatisfied performance obligations.
We consider all highly-liquid investments with maturities of three months or less when purchased, including money market funds, to be cash equivalents.
 Accounts receivable is recognized when we have transferred a good or service to a customer and our right to receive consideration is unconditional through the completion of our performance obligation.
 In  May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No.