PART II. OTHER INFORMATION  



 Item 1. Legal Proceedings  



There are no pending or threatened legal proceedings against the Company believed to be material to the financial position or results of operations of the Company.  



 Item 1A. Risk Factors  





There have been no material updates to the risk factors previously disclosed in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2018.  



 Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds  







 (a) Employees of the Company delivered 2,383 shares of the Company’s common stock toward the satisfaction of taxes due with respect to vesting of restricted shares. The shares delivered were valued at an average market value of $14.26 per share and are included with treasury stock in the consolidated balance sheet. This transaction did not impact the number of shares authorized for repurchase under the Company’s current repurchase program.  



 (b) The Company’s Chief Executive Officer delivered 456 shares of the Company’s common stock toward the satisfaction of taxes due with respect to vesting of restricted shares. The shares delivered were valued at an average market value of $14.47 per share and are included with treasury stock in the consolidated balance sheet. This transaction did not impact the number of shares authorized for repurchase under the Company’s current repurchase program.  



 (c) Employees of the Company delivered 630 shares of the Company’s common stock to satisfy the exercise price for 1,000 stock options exercised. The shares delivered were valued at an average market value of $14.23 per share and are included with treasury stock in the consolidated balance sheet. This transaction did not impact the number of shares authorized for repurchase under the Company’s current repurchase program.  



 (d) An employee of the Company delivered 4,925 shares of the Company’s common stock to satisfy the exercise price for 9,975 stock options exercised. The shares delivered were valued at an average market value of $15.95 per share and are included with treasury stock in the consolidated balance sheet. This transaction did not impact the number of shares authorized for repurchase under the Company’s current repurchase program.  





Table of Contents 



 Item 6. Exhibits  







Table of Contents 



SIGNATURES  



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.  





