•Liquidity and Capital Resources. An analysis of changes in our cash flows and a discussion of our liquidity and financial condition.
•Contractual and Other Obligations. An overview of contractual obligations, retirement and post-retirement benefit plan contributions, cost-saving plans, uncertain tax positions and off-balance sheet arrangements of our operations.
•In Personal Systems, our strategic focus is on profitable growth through hyper market segmentation with respect to enhanced innovation in multi-operating systems, multi-architecture, geography, customer segments and other key attributes. Additionally, we are investing in premium form factors such as convertible notebooks to meet customer preference for mobile, thinner and lighter devices. We have increased our focus on Device as a Service as the market begins to shift to contractual solutions. We believe that we are well positioned due to our competitive product lineup.
•In Printing, our strategic growth focus is on shift to contractual solutions and Graphics, as well as expanding our footprint in the 3D printing marketplace. The shift to contractual solutions includes an increased focus on MPS and Instant Ink, supporting our strategy of placing higher value printer units (including our A3 products and solutions) which offer strong annuity of toner and ink. In the Graphics space, we are focused on innovations such as our Indigo and Latex product offerings, which support accelerated growth in our Graphic solutions. We continue to execute on our key initiatives of focusing on high-value products targeted at high usage categories and introducing new revenue delivery models.
•In Personal Systems, we face challenges with industry component availability.
To address these challenges, we continue to pursue innovation with a view towards developing new products and services aligned with generating market demand and meeting the needs of our customers and partners. In addition, we continue to work on improving our operations, with a particular focus on enhancing our end-to-end processes, analytics and efficiencies. We also continue to work on optimizing our sales coverage models, align our sales incentives with our strategic goals, improve channel execution, strengthen our capabilities in our areas of strategic focus, and develop and capitalize on market opportunities. 
We typically experience higher net revenues in our fourth quarter compared to other quarters in our fiscal year due in part to seasonal holiday demand. Historical seasonal patterns should not be considered reliable indicators of our future net revenues or financial performance.
Revenue Recognition
We recognize revenue depicting the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which we are expected to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. We evaluate customers’ ability to pay based on various factors like historical payment experience, financial metrics and customer credit scores.
We enter into contracts to sell our products and services, and while many of our sales contracts contain standard terms and conditions, there are contracts which contain non-standard terms and conditions. Further, many of our arrangements include multiple performance obligations. As a result, significant contract interpretation may be required to determine the appropriate accounting, including the identification of performance obligations considered to be separate units of accounting, the allocation of the transaction price among performance obligations in the arrangement and the timing of transfer of control of promised goods or services for each of those performance obligations.
We evaluate each performance obligation in an arrangement to determine whether it represents a separate unit of accounting. A performance obligation constitutes a separate unit of accounting when the customer can benefit from the goods or services either on its own or together with other resources that are readily available to the customer and the performance obligation is distinct within the context of the contract.
 Revenue is recognized when, or as, a performance obligation is satisfied by transferring control of a promised good or service to a customer. We generally invoice the customer upon delivery of the goods or services and the payments are due as per contract terms. For fixed price support or maintenance and other service contracts that are in the nature of stand-ready obligations, payments are generally received in advance from customers and revenue is recognized on a straight-line basis over time for the duration of the contract. In instances when revenue is derived from sales of third-party vendor products or services, we record revenue on a gross basis when we are a principal in the transaction and on a net basis when we are acting as an agent between the customer and the vendor. We consider several factors to determine whether we are acting as a principal or an agent, most notably whether we are the primary obligor to the customer, have established our own pricing and have inventory and credit risks.
As of January 31, 2019, we completed the accounting for the tax effects of the TCJA with no material changes to the provisional amounts recorded during the measurement period.
For a summary of recent accounting pronouncements applicable to our Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements see Note 1, “Basis of Presentation”, to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Revenue from our international operations has historically represented, and we expect will continue to represent, a majority of our overall net revenue. As a result, our net revenue growth has been impacted, and we expect it will continue to be impacted, by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. In order to provide a framework for assessing performance excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, we supplement the year-over-year percentage change in net revenue with the year-over-year percentage change in net revenue on a constant currency basis, which excludes the effect of foreign currency 
Net Revenue
For the three months ended January 31, 2019, total net revenue increased 1% (increased 2% on a constant currency basis) as compared to the prior-year period. U.S. net revenue decreased 2% to $4.9 billion, while net revenue from international operations increased 3% to $9.8 billion. The increase in net revenue was primarily driven by growth in Notebooks and Printing Hardware, partially offset by decline in Supplies and Desktops, and unfavorable foreign currency impacts. 
A detailed discussion of the factors contributing to the changes in segment net revenue is included in “Segment Information” below.
Gross Margin
A detailed discussion of the factors contributing to the changes in segment gross margins is included under “Segment Information” below.
Operating Expenses
Restructuring and other Charges
Restructuring and other charges for the three months ended January 31, 2019 relate primarily to the Fiscal 2017 Plan.
Acquisition-related charges
Acquisition-related charges for the three months ended January 31, 2019 relate primarily to third-party professional and legal fees, and integration-related costs.
Amortization of intangible assets for the three months ended January 31, 2019 relates primarily to intangible assets resulting from the acquisitions of Samsung’s printer business and the Apogee group.
Interest and Other, Net
Interest and other, net expense increased by $18 million for the three months ended January 31, 2019, as compared to the prior-year period, primarily driven by lower market-related retirement credits, partially offset by lower interest expense due to reduction of debt in March 2018.
During the three months ended January 31, 2018, we recorded $1.1 billion of net tax benefits related to discrete items in the provision for taxes. As of January 31, 2018, we had not yet completed our analysis of the full impact of TCJA however we recorded a provisional tax benefit of $1.1 billion related to $5.5 billion net benefit for the decrease in our deferred tax liability on unremitted foreign earnings, partially offset by $3.2 billion net expense for the repatriation tax payable in installments over eight years and $1.2 billion net expense for remeasurement of our deferred tax assets and liabilities for the revaluation of our deferred assets and liabilities to the new US rate of 21%. This amount also included tax benefits related to audit settlements, acquisition charges and other tax benefits of $32 million, $18 million and $12 million, respectively, offset by uncertain tax position charges of $43 million.
A description of the products and services for each segment can be found in Note 2, “Segment Information” to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference. Future changes to this organizational structure may result in changes to the segments disclosed.
 Effective at the beginning of its first quarter of fiscal year 2019, we implemented an organizational change to align our business unit financial reporting more closely with our current business structure. The organizational change resulted in the transfer of certain Samsung-branded product categories from Commercial to Consumer within the Printing segment. We reflected this change to our business unit information in prior reporting periods on an as-if basis. The reporting change had no impact to previously reported segment net revenue, consolidated net revenue, earnings from operations, net earnings or net EPS.
Personal Systems
Three months ended January 31, 2019 compared with three months ended January 31, 2018
Personal Systems net revenue increased 2.3% (increased 3.5% on a constant currency basis) for the three months ended January 31, 2019 as compared to the prior-year period. The net revenue increase was primarily due to growth in Notebooks and Workstations, partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency impacts and a decline in Desktops due to component availability constraints. The net revenue increase was driven by a 5.5% increase in ASPs, partially offset by a 3.0% decrease in unit volume, as compared to the prior-year period. The increase in ASPs was due to positive mix shifts and higher pricing, partially offset by unfavorable currency impacts. The decrease in unit volume was primarily due to decline in Desktops. 
Consumer and Commercial revenue increased 1.3% and 2.8%, respectively, for the three months ended January 31, 2019 as compared to the prior-year period, driven by growth in Notebooks, primarily as a result of higher ASPs. 
Net revenue decreased 3.3% in Desktops and increased 5.8% in Notebooks and 3.5% in Workstations as compared to the prior-year period.
Personal Systems earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue increased by 0.7 percentage points for the three months ended January 31, 2019 as compared to the prior-year period. The increase was primarily due to an increase in gross margin and a decrease in operating expenses. The increase in gross margin was primarily due to higher ASPs, partially offset by an increase in commodity and logistics costs. Operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue decreased primarily due to operating expense management.
Three months ended January 31, 2019 compared with three months ended January 31, 2018
Printing net revenue decreased 0.4% (decreased 0.7% on a constant currency basis) for the three months ended January 31, 2019 as compared to the prior-year period. The decline in net revenue was primarily driven by Supplies, partially offset by an increase in hardware, services and solutions revenue, and favorable foreign currency impacts. Net revenue for Supplies decreased 2.5% as compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to demand weakness. Printer unit volume increased 2.6% while ASPs decreased 2.7% as compared to the prior-year period. The increase in printer unit volume was primarily driven by unit increases in Consumer and Commercial Hardware. Printer ASPs decreased primarily due to higher discounting.
Net revenue for Commercial Hardware increased by 5.1% as compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to the acquisition of the Apogee group including services and solutions.
Net revenue for Consumer Hardware increased 1.6% as compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to a 2.4% increase in printer unit volume partially offset by 1.2% decrease in ASPs. The unit volume increase was primarily driven by the LaserJet Home business. The decrease in ASPs was primarily driven by mix shift to low-end printers.
Printing earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue increased by 0.5 percentage points for the three months ended January 31, 2019 as compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to decrease in operating expenses, partially offset by decline in gross margin. The gross margin decrease was primarily driven by lower Supplies mix. Operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue decreased primarily due to operating expense management.
Corporate Investments
The loss from operations in Corporate Investments for the three months ended January 31, 2019 was primarily due to expenses associated with our incubation projects.
We use cash generated by operations as our primary source of liquidity. We believe that internally generated cash flows are generally sufficient to support our operating businesses, capital expenditures, acquisitions, restructuring activities, maturing debt, income tax payments and the payment of stockholder dividends, in addition to investments and share repurchases. We are able to supplement this short-term liquidity, if necessary, with broad access to capital markets and credit facilities made available by various domestic and foreign financial institutions. While our access to capital markets may be constrained and our cost of borrowing may increase under certain business, market and economic conditions, our access to a variety of funding sources to meet our liquidity needs is designed to facilitate continued access to capital resources under all such conditions. Our liquidity is subject to various risks including the risks identified in the section entitled “Risk Factors” in Item 1A of Part I in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2018 and the market risks identified in the section entitled “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” in Item 3 of Part I of this report, which are incorporated herein by reference.
Our cash balances are held in numerous locations throughout the world, with the majority of those amounts held outside of the United States. We utilize a variety of planning and financing strategies in an effort to ensure that our worldwide cash is available when and where it is needed. Our cash position remains strong, and we expect that our cash balances, anticipated cash flow generated from operations and access to capital markets will be sufficient to cover our expected near-term cash outlays.
Liquidity
Operating Activities
Compared to the corresponding period in fiscal year 2018, net cash provided by operating activities decreased by $134 million for the three months ended January 31, 2019, primarily due to working capital management activities.
Working Capital Metrics
DSO measures the average number of days our receivables are outstanding. DSO is calculated by dividing ending accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful accounts, by a 90-day average net revenue. The increase in DSO was primarily due to unfavorable revenue linearity.
DPO measures the average number of days our accounts payable balances are outstanding. DPO is calculated by dividing ending accounts payable by a 90-day average cost of revenue. The increase in DPO was primarily due to higher inventory purchasing volume and negotiated vendor payments.
Investing Activities
Compared to the corresponding period in fiscal year 2018, net cash used in investing activities decreased by $1.4 billion for the three months ended January 31, 2019, primarily due to lower net payments for acquisitions of $0.6 billion, a decrease in collateral related to our derivatives of $0.5 billion and investments classified as available-for-sale investments within Other current assets by $0.4 billion.
Financing Activities
Compared to the corresponding period in fiscal year 2018, net cash used in financing activities increased by $1.5 billion for the three months ended January 31, 2019, primarily due to lower outstanding commercial paper of $0.9 billion, payment of debt of $0.4 billion and a higher share repurchase settlement amount of $0.3 billion.
Debt Levels
We maintain debt levels that we establish through consideration of a number of factors, including cash flow expectations, cash requirements for operations, investment plans (including acquisitions), share repurchase activities, our cost of capital and targeted capital structure. Outstanding borrowings decreased to $5.0 billion as of January 31, 2019 as compared to $6.0 billion as of October 31, 2018, bearing weighted-average interest rates of 4.7% and 4.3% for January 31, 2019 and October 31, 2018, respectively. 
Our weighted-average interest rate reflects the average effective rate on our borrowings prevailing during the period and reflects the impact of interest rate swaps. For more information on our interest rate swaps, see Note 8, “Financial Instruments”, to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.
As of January 31, 2019, we maintain a senior unsecured committed revolving credit facility with aggregate lending commitments of $4.0 billion, which will be available until March 30, 2023 and is primarily to support the issuance of commercial paper. Funds borrowed under this revolving credit facility may also be used for general corporate purposes.
Available Borrowing Resources
For more information on our borrowings, see Note 9, “Borrowings”, to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Retirement and Post-Retirement Benefit Plan Contributions
As of January 31, 2019, we anticipate making contributions for the remainder of fiscal year 2019 of approximately $35 million to our non-U.S. pension plans, $26 million to cover benefit payments to U.S. non-qualified pension plan participants and $4 million to cover benefit claims for our post-retirement benefit plans. Our policy is to fund our pension plans so that we meet at least the minimum contribution requirements, as established by local government, funding and taxing authorities. For more information on our retirement and post-retirement benefit plans, see Note 4, “Retirement and Post-Retirement Benefit Plans”, to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Cost Savings Plan
We expect to make future cash payments of approximately $240 million in connection with our cost savings plans. For more information on our restructuring activities that are part of our cost improvements, see Note 3, “Restructuring and Other Charges”, to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Uncertain Tax Positions 
The TCJA made significant changes to U.S. tax law resulting in a one-time gross transition tax on accumulated foreign earnings of $3.3 billion. We expect the actual cash payments for the tax to be much lower as we expect to reduce the overall liability by more than half once existing and future credits and other balance sheet attributes are used. The payments associated with this one-time transition tax will be paid over eight years beginning in the current fiscal year.
As part of our ongoing business, we have not participated in transactions that generate material relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes.
We have third-party short-term financing arrangements intended to facilitate the working capital requirements of certain customers. For more information on our third-party short-term financing arrangements, see Note 6, “Supplementary Financial Information”, to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
There were no unregistered sales of equity securities during the period covered by this report.
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
On June 19, 2018, HP’s Board of Directors authorized $4.0 billion for future repurchases of its outstanding shares of common stock. This program, which does not have a specific expiration date, authorizes repurchases in the open market or in private transactions. HP intends to use repurchases from time to time to offset the dilution created by shares issued under employee stock plans and to repurchase shares opportunistically. All share repurchases settled in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 were open market transactions. As of January 31, 2019, HP had approximately $3.2 billion remaining under the share repurchase authorizations.
