The Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of September 1, 2019, the Consolidated Statements of Operations, the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Earnings and the Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity for the 13 weeks and 26 weeks ended September 1, 2019 and August 26, 2018 and the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the 26 weeks then ended have been prepared by Park Aerospace Corp., formerly Park Electrochemical Corp. (the “Company”), without audit.
On July 16, 2019, the Company also filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Kansas, a Certificate of Ownership and Merger whereby the Company’s Park Aerospace Technologies Corp. wholly owned subsidiary located at the Newton, Kansas Airport was merged into the Company and ceased to exist.
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (i.e., the “exit price”) in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
The Company’s non-financial assets measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis include goodwill and any long-lived assets written down to fair value.
To measure fair value of such assets, the Company uses Level 3 inputs consisting of techniques including an income approach and a market approach.
The income approach is based on a discounted cash flow analysis and calculates the fair value by estimating the after-tax cash flows attributable to a reporting unit and then discounting the after-tax cash flows to a present value using a risk-adjusted discount rate.
There were no transfers between levels within the fair value hierarchy during the 26 weeks ended September 1, 2019 and August 26, 2018.
If, based on that assessment, the Company believes it is more likely than not that fair value is less than carrying value, a goodwill impairment test is performed.
There have been no changes in events or circumstances which required impairment charges to be recorded during the 13 or 26 weeks ended September 1, 2019.
All marketable securities are classified as available-for-sale and are carried at fair value, with the unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, included in comprehensive earnings.Park Aerospace Corp., formerly Park Electrochemical Corp., (“Park” or the “Company”) develops and manufactures solution and hot-melt advanced composite materials used to produce composite structures for the global aerospace markets.
As a complement to Park’s advanced composite materials offering, Park designs and fabricates composite parts, structures and assemblies and low volume tooling for the aerospace industry.
The Company's total net sales from continuing operations in the 13 weeks and 26 weeks ended September 1, 2019 were $13.7 million and $28.7 million, respectively, compared to $11.2 million and $21.6 million, respectively, in the 13 weeks and 26 weeks ended August 26, 2018.
The Company’s earnings from continuing operations before income taxes and net earnings from continuing operations increased by 99% and 12%, respectively, in the 13 weeks ended September 1, 2019 compared to the 13 weeks ended August 26, 2018 primarily as a result of higher sales and higher interest income, partially offset by a higher tax provision compared to the prior year’s comparable period.
The Company’s earnings from continuing operations before income taxes and net earnings from continuing operations increased by 166% and 91%, respectively, in the 26 weeks ended September 1, 2019 compared to the 26 weeks ended August 26, 2018 primarily as a result of higher sales and higher interest income, partially offset by a higher tax provision compared to the prior year’s comparable period.
The long-term contract with the customer is requirements based and does not guarantee quantities.None.Item 1.
Item 1A.