our competition; (ii.)
our financing plans; (iii.)
our growth strategy and operating strategy; (v.) the declaration and payment of dividends; (vi.)
the timing and magnitude of future contracts; (vii.)
fluctuations in margins; (ix.)
the seasonality of our business; (x.)
the introduction of new products and technology; (xi.)
the amount and frequency of warranty claims; (xii.)
resolution of litigation contingencies; and (xiv.)
the timing and magnitude of any acquisitions or dispositions.
This discussion should be read in conjunction with the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Report.
construction-type contracts, costs to be incurred for product warranties and extended maintenance contracts, bad debts, excess and obsolete inventory, income taxes, share-based compensation, goodwill impairment and contingencies.
We focus our sales and marketing efforts on markets, geographical regions and products.
Our five business segments consist of four domestic business units and the International business unit.
The four domestic business units consist of Commercial, Live Events, High School Park and Recreation, and Transportation, all of which include the geographic territories of the United States and Canada.
Disclosures related to our business segments are provided in "Note 5.
Segment Reporting" of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report.
Uniquely configured orders can include several displays, controllers, and subcontracted structure builds, each of which can occur on varied schedules per the customer's needs.
Our third fiscal quarter tends to be a slower quarter because it includes two holidays, it is affected by sports seasonality, and generally less outdoor construction work occurs due to weather conditions.
Uniquely configured orders involving competitive bidding and substantial subcontract work for product installation generally have lower gross margins.
Our remaining performance obligations ("backlog") consist of contractually binding sales agreements or purchase orders for integrated electronic display systems and related products and exclude extended service agreements and service only orders.
Orders are included in backlog when we are in receipt of an executed contract and any required deposits or security.
As a result, certain orders for which we have received binding letters of intent or contracts will not be included in backlog until all required contractual documents and deposits are received.
Our backlog is not necessarily indicative of future net sales or net income.
Our mission is to be the world leader at informing and entertaining audiences through dynamic audio-visual communication systems.
Our success is contingent on the depth and quality of our products, including related control systems, the depth of our service offerings and our technology serving these market demands.
These qualities are important for our long-term success because our products have finite lifetimes, and we strive to win replacement business from existing customers.
Increases in user adoption, the acceptance of a variety of digital solutions, and the decline of digital solution pricing over the years have increased the size of the global market.
With this positive demand, strong competition exists across all of our business units, which causes margin constraints.
Projects with multimillion-dollar revenue potential also attract competition, which generally reduces profitability.
We organize around customer segments and geographic regions as further described in "Note 5.
Segment Reporting" of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report.
•Standard display product market growth due to market adoption and lower product costs, which drive marketplace expansion.
Standard display products are used to attract or communicate with customers and potential customers of retail, commercial, and other establishments.
Pricing and economic conditions are the principal factors that impact our success in this business unit.
We utilize a reseller network to distribute our standard products.
•National accounts standard display market opportunities due to customers' desire to communicate their message, advertising and content consistently across the country.
Increased demand is possible from retailers, quick serve restaurants, petroleum businesses, and other nationwide organizations.
•Increasing interest in spectaculars, which include very large and sometimes highly customized displays as part of entertainment venues such as casinos, shopping centers, cruise ships and Times Square type locations.
•Dynamic messaging systems demand growth due to market adoption and marketplace expansion.
•The use of architectural lighting products for commercial buildings, which real estate owners use to add accents or effects to an entire side or circumference of a building to communicate messages or to decorate the building.
•The continued deployment of digital billboards as Out-of-Home ("OOH") advertising companies continue developing new sites and replacing digital billboards reaching end of life.
This is dependent on no adverse changes occurring in the digital billboard regulatory environment restricting future billboard deployment, as well as maintaining our current market share in a business that is concentrated in a few large OOH companies.
•Lower product costs, driving an expansion of the marketplace.
•Our product and service offerings, which remain the most integrated and comprehensive offerings in the industry.
•The competitive nature of sports teams, which strive to out-perform their competitors with display systems.
•The desire for high-definition video displays, which typically drives larger displays or higher resolution displays, both of which increase the average transaction size.
•Increased demand for video systems in high schools as school districts realize the revenue generating potential of these displays compared to traditional scoreboards.
•Increased demand for different types of displays and dynamic messaging systems, such as message centers at schools to communicate to students, parents and the broader community.
•The use of more sophisticated displays in school athletic facilities, such as large integrated video systems.
As a result, each year we must sell more product to generate the same or greater level of net sales as in previous fiscal years.
This price decline has been significant as a result of increased competition across all business units.
For fiscal year 2019, while we remain optimistic about long-term growth in the digital display industry, the recent U.S.
Administrative trade actions, including tariffs and sanctions, and related reactions and responses outside the U.S. are very dynamic.
This environment has created volatility, such as increases in pricing of and demand for aluminum, electrical, and other components we use in our production.
The increase in orders for the three months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was the net result of volatility in order timing of large custom projects in the spectacular niche and increased demand in the on-premise and OOH niches.
Orders increased for the three months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago due to the increased number of projects in professional sports and college and university venues.
During the third quarter of fiscal 2019, we were awarded two projects each valued at over $4 million, with no similar sized projects in the third quarter of fiscal 2018.
Orders increased for the three months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago due to overall strong market demand and an increase in projects for larger video systems.
Orders for the three months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago decreased primarily due to variability caused by large order timing.
Orders decreased for the three months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to the variability of timing caused by large projects.
The product order backlog as of January 26, 2019 increased from January 27, 2018 in our Commercial, Live Events, High School Park and Recreation, and Transportation business units and decreased in our International business unit.
Gross profit is net sales less cost of sales.
Contribution margin consists of gross profit less selling expenses.
Selling expense in our High School Park and Recreation business unit increased in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the same quarter a year ago due to an increase in the allocation of shared resources to this market's selling efforts.
Selling expense in our Live Events business unit decreased in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the same quarter a year ago due to reduced personnel related expenses.
Selling expense in our Commercial, Transportation, and International business units remained relatively flat during the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the same quarter a year ago.
General and administrative expenses in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 increased as compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to an increase in professional fees and IT related systems.
Product design and development investments in the near term are focused on developing or improving our video technology over a wide range of pixel pitches for both indoor and outdoor applications.
These new or improved technologies are focused on varied pixel density for image quality and use, expanded product line offerings for our various markets and geographies, improved quality and reliability, and improved cost points.
We plan to make continued investments in our software and controller capabilities throughout our various product offerings.
Through all design efforts, we focus on standardizing display components and control systems for both single site and network displays.
Product design and development expenses in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 remained relatively flat as compared to the same period one year ago.
The change in interest income, net for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was primarily due to the change in investment levels caused by the volatility of working capital needs.
We calculate the provision for income taxes during interim reporting periods by applying an estimate of the annual effective tax rate for the full fiscal year to “ordinary” income or loss (pretax income or loss excluding unusual or infrequently occurring discrete items) for the reporting period.
We have recorded a tax rate of 55.4 percent for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to an effective tax rate of (67.0) percent for the third quarter of fiscal 2018.
The increase in orders for the nine months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was the result of volatility in order timing of large custom projects in the spectacular niche and increased demand in the on-premise and OOH niches.
Orders decreased for the nine months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago due to a decreased number of projects in professional sports venues and an order cancellation.
During the first nine months of fiscal 2018, we were awarded three projects each valued at over $5 million as compared to one project valued at over $5 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2019.
Orders increased for the nine months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago due to overall strong market demand and an increase in large video system projects.
Orders increased for the nine months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to variability caused by large order timing and continued demand for intelligent transportation systems.
Orders decreased for the nine months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to the variability of timing caused by large projects.
Gross profit is net sales less cost of sales.
Contribution margin consists of gross profit less selling expenses.
Selling expense in our High School Park and Recreation business unit increased in the nine months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to a change in the allocation of resources to this market's selling efforts.
Selling expense in our International business unit increased in the nine months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to third-party commissions and increased personnel related expenses.
Selling expenses in our Commercial, Live Events, and Transportation business units remained relatively flat in the nine months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago.
General and administrative expenses in the nine months ended January 26, 2019 decreased as compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to a decrease in professional fees.
Product design and development investments in the near term are focused on developing or improving our video technology over a wide range of pixel pitches for both indoor and outdoor applications.
These new or improved technologies are focused on varied pixel density for image quality and use, expanded product line offerings for our various markets and geographies, improved quality and reliability, and improved cost points.
We plan to make continued investments in our software and controller capabilities throughout our various product offerings.
Through all design efforts, we focus on standardizing display components and control systems for both single site and network displays.
Product design and development expenses in the nine months ended January 26, 2019 as compared to the same period one year ago increased primarily due to increased labor costs assigned to product design and development projects relating to our strategy to accelerate the deployment of products and solutions to our markets.
The change in interest income, net in the nine months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was primarily due to the change in investment levels caused by the volatility of working capital needs and changes in investing and financing activities.
We calculate the provision for income taxes during interim reporting periods by applying an estimate of the annual effective tax rate for the full fiscal year to “ordinary” income or loss (pretax income or loss excluding unusual or infrequently occurring discrete items) for the reporting period.
We have recorded a tax rate of (71.8) percent for the nine months ended January 26, 2019 as compared to an effective tax rate of 47.2 percent for the nine months ended January 27, 2018.
The change in the effective tax rate is due to tax credits proportionate to pre-tax book income, the release of $2.8 million in unrecognized tax benefits related to a lapse of statute, the release of $0.5 million for a valuation allowance reversal related to foreign net operating loss carryforwards, and a decrease in the federal statutory tax rate from 30.4 percent to 21 percent pursuant to the Tax Act, as compared to the same prior year period, which included a re-measurement of deferred taxes resulting in a $3.7 million impact to tax expense due to the lowering of the tax rate under the Tax Act.
Net cash provided by operating activities was $32.2 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 compared to net cash provided by operating activities of $27.0 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2018.
The $5.2 million increase in cash from operating activities from the first nine months of fiscal 2018 to the first nine months of fiscal 2019 was the result of changes in net operating assets and liabilities of $7.7 million, a $1.0 million adjustment of the contingent liability, $0.7 million in depreciation and amortization, $0.5 million increase in net income, and $0.1 million in other non-cash items, net, adjusted by $3.8 million in deferred income taxes, and a $1.0 million gain on the sale of property, equipment and other assets.
Balances are also impacted by the sports market seasonality.
to $2.1 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2018; this was mostly related to the sale of our non-digital division assets in the first nine months of fiscal 2018.
During the first nine months of fiscal 2019, we had a net cash outflow of $2.3 million for the acquisition of assets of AJT Systems, Inc.
We have historically financed working capital needs through a combination of cash flow from operations and borrowings under bank credit agreements.
We have used and expect to continue to use cash balances to meet our short-term working capital requirements.
We often receive down payments or progress payments on these product orders.
To the extent these payments are not sufficient to fund the costs and other expenses associated with these orders, we use working capital and bank borrowings to finance these cash requirements.
On November 15, 2016, we entered into a credit agreement and a related revolving note with a U.S. bank.
The revolving amount of the agreement and note is $35.0 million, including up to $15.0 million for commercial and standby letters of credits.
The interest rate ranges from LIBOR plus 145 basis points to LIBOR plus 195 basis points depending on the ratio of our interest-bearing debt to EBITDA.
EBITDA is defined as net income before deductions for interest expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization, all as determined in accordance with GAAP.
We are assessed a loan fee equal to 0.125 percent per annum on any unused portion of the loan.
The ratio is equal to (a) EBITDA minus the sum of dividends or other distributions (unless the bank approves), share repurchases, a maintenance capital expenditure reserve in the amount of $6.0 million, and income tax to (b) all principal and interest payments with respect to indebtedness, excluding principal payments on the line of credit; and
•A ratio of funded debt, excluding any marketing obligations, to EBITDA of less than 1 to 1 at the end of any fiscal quarter.
On November 15, 2016, we entered into an amended and restated loan agreement and a continuing and unlimited guaranty agreement with another U.S. bank which supports our credit needs outside of the United States.
We intend to use the borrowings under the agreement to support credit needs for general corporate purposes outside the United States.
It contains the same covenants as the credit agreement on the line of credit and contains an inter creditor agreement whereby the debt has a cross default provision with the primary credit agreement.
As of January 26, 2019, there were no advances outstanding under the loan agreement and approximately $3.6 million in bank guarantees under this line of credit.
As of January 26, 2019, we were in compliance with all applicable bank loan covenants.
Although we expect to continue to pay dividends for the foreseeable future, the nature and amounts of dividends will be reviewed regularly and declared by the Board of Directors at its discretion.
We are sometimes required to obtain performance bonds for display installations, and we have a bonding line available through a surety company for an aggregate of $150.0 million in bonded work outstanding.
If we were unable to complete the work and our customer would call upon the bond for payment, the surety company would subrogate its loss to Daktronics.
We are projecting capital expenditures to be less than $20.0 million for fiscal 2019 purchases of manufacturing equipment for new or enhanced product production, expanded capacity, investments in quality and reliability equipment, and continued information infrastructure investments.
We believe our working capital available from all sources will be adequate to meet the cash requirements of our operations in the foreseeable future.
There has been no material change in our off-balance sheet arrangements and contractual obligations since the fiscal year ended April 28, 2018.
For additional information, see our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 28, 2018.
We describe our significant accounting policies in "Note 1.
Nature of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 28, 2018.
We discuss our critical accounting estimates in "Part II, Item 7.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 28, 2018.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we adopted new revenue recognition guidance, as described in "Note 1.
Basis of Presentation" of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report.
There have been no other significant changes in our significant accounting policies or critical accounting estimates since the end of fiscal 2018.
For a summary of recently issued accounting pronouncements and the effects of those pronouncements on our financial results, refer to "Note 1.
Basis of Presentation" of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report.
During the nine months ended January 26, 2019, we did not repurchase any shares of our common stock.
