We derive net sales in U.S. dollars and other currencies including Canadian dollars, Euros, Chinese renminbi, British pounds, Australian dollars, Brazilian reais or other currencies.
For the three months ended July 28, 2018, 21.1 percent of net sales were derived in currencies other than U.S. dollars.
These accounts are also impacted by changes in foreign currency rates.
As of July 28, 2018, we had $7.6 million denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar.
If we believe currency risk in any foreign location or specific sales or purchase transaction is significant, we utilize foreign exchange hedging contracts to manage our exposure to the currency fluctuations.
The notional amount of the foreign currency agreements as of July 28, 2018 was $11.3 million, and all contracts mature within 14 months.
These contracts are marked to market each balance sheet date and are not designated as hedges.
Derivative Financial Instruments" of the Notes to our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report for further details.
Over the long term, net sales to international markets are expected to increase as a percentage of total net sales and, consequently, a greater portion of our business could be denominated in foreign currencies.
This sensitivity analysis disregards the possibilities that rates can move in opposite directions and that losses from one geographic area may be offset by gains from another geographic area.
We will continue to monitor and minimize our exposure to currency fluctuations and, when appropriate, use financial hedging techniques to minimize the effect of these fluctuations.
As of July 28, 2018, our outstanding marketing obligations were $0.4 million, all of which were in fixed rate obligations.
In connection with the sale of certain display systems, we have entered into various types of financing with customers.
The aggregate amounts due from customers include an imputed interest element.
The majority of these financings carry fixed rates of interest.
As of July 28, 2018, our outstanding long-term receivables were $3.0 million.
Each 25 basis point increase in interest rates would have an associated immaterial annual opportunity cost.
The following table provides maturities and weighted average interest rates on our financial instruments sensitive to changes in interest rates.
Of our $15.9 million in cash balances at July 28, 2018, $8.3 million were denominated in U.S. dollars, of which $4.4 million was held by our foreign subsidiaries.
At July 28, 2018, we had an additional $7.6 million in cash balances denominated in foreign currencies, of which $6.2 million were maintained in accounts of our foreign subsidiaries.
A portion of the cash held in foreign accounts is used to collateralize outstanding bank guarantees issued by our foreign subsidiaries.
