Daktronics, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the “Company”, “Daktronics”, “we”, “our”, or “us”) are the world's industry leader in designing and manufacturing electronic scoreboards, programmable display systems and large screen video displays for sporting, commercial and transportation applications.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("GAAP") requires management to make estimates and assumptions affecting the reported amounts therein.
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP have been condensed or omitted.
These financial statements should be read in conjunction with our financial statements and notes thereto for the year ended April 28, 2018, which are contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").
Certain prior year amounts in the condensed consolidated balance sheet have been reclassified to conform to the current year's presentation due to the adoption of Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606).
Costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings now represent contract assets.
These reclassifications had no effect on reported net income, comprehensive income, cash flows, total assets or total liabilities.
Daktronics, Inc. operates on a 52- or 53-week fiscal year, with our fiscal year ending on the Saturday closest to April 30 of each year.
When April 30 falls on a Wednesday, the fiscal year ends on the preceding Saturday.
Within each fiscal year, each quarter is comprised of 13-week periods following the beginning of each fiscal year.
In each 53-week year, an additional week is added to the first quarter, and each of the last three quarters is comprised of a 13-week period.
The six months ended October 27, 2018 and October 28, 2017, contained operating results for 26 weeks.
In October 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued ASU 2016-16, Income Taxes (Topic 740) Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other than Inventory, which is intended to improve the accounting for the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory.
Current GAAP prohibits the recognition of current and deferred income taxes for an intra-entity asset transfer until the asset has been sold to an outside party, which is an exception to the principle of comprehensive recognition of current and deferred income taxes in GAAP.
This update eliminates the exception by requiring entities to recognize the income tax consequences of an intra-entity transfer of an asset other than inventory when the transfer occurs.
We adopted ASU 2016-16 during the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
The adoption of ASU 2016-16 did not have an impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606).
Subsequently, the FASB also issued ASUs 2016-08, 2016-10, 2016-12, and 2016-20 to give further guidance to revenue recognition matters.
ASU 2014-09 and related guidance supersedes revenue recognition requirements under FASB Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Topic 605 and related industry specific revenue recognition guidance.
This new standard defines a comprehensive revenue recognition model, requiring a company to recognize revenue from the transfer of goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that the entity expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services.
No adjustment to beginning retained earnings was recorded, and we have made additional disclosures related to revenue from contracts with customers as required by the new standard upon adoption.
Revenue Recognition" for more information.
In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-04, Intangibles-Goodwill and Other (Topic 350), which simplifies the subsequent measurement of goodwill by removing the second step of the two-step impairment test.
The amendment requires an entity to perform its annual or interim goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount.
A goodwill impairment will be the amount by which a reporting unit’s carrying value exceeds its fair value, not to exceed the carrying amount of goodwill.
We are currently evaluating the effect that adopting ASU 2017-04 will have on our condensed consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments, which provides guidance regarding the measurement and recognition of credit impairment for certain financial assets.
We are currently evaluating the effect that adopting ASU 2016-13 will have on our condensed consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), which sets out the principles for the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases for both parties to a contract (that is, lessees and lessors).
ASU 2016-02 requires lessees to apply a dual approach, classifying leases as either finance or operating leases based on the principle of whether or not the lease is effectively a financed purchase of the leased asset by the lessee.
This classification will determine whether the lease expense is recognized based on an effective interest method or on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
A lessee is also required to record a right-of-use asset and a lease liability for all leases with a term greater than 12 months regardless of their classification.
ASU 2016-02 requires lessors to account for leases using an approach that is substantially equivalent to existing guidance for sales-type leases, direct financing leases and operating leases.
In July 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-10, Codification Improvements to Topic 842 (Leases), and ASU 2018-11, Leases (Topic 842), Targeted Improvements, which provide (i) narrow amendments to clarify how to apply certain aspects of the new lease standard, (ii) entities with an additional transition method to adopt the new standard, and (iii) lessors with a practical expedient for separating components of a contract.
We plan to adopt this new standard in the first quarter of fiscal 2020.
We are still reviewing the new standard and recent updates published by FASB.
Our preliminary assumptions suggest we will likely adopt certain practical expedients, including the lookback option, and not change historical conclusions related to (1) contracts that contain leases, (2) existing lease classification, and (3) initial direct costs.
We have evaluated our relationships with our affiliates and have determined that these entities are not variable interest entities.
The aggregate amount of investments accounted for under the equity method was $4,236 and $3,647 at October 27, 2018 and April 28, 2018, respectively.
The equity method requires us to report our share of losses up to our equity investment amount.
Cash paid for investments in affiliates is included in the "Purchases of equity investment" line item in our condensed consolidated statements of cash flows.
For the six months ended October 27, 2018 and October 28, 2017, our share of the losses of our affiliates was $265 and $191, respectively.
The aggregate amount of investments accounted for under the cost method was $42 at October 27, 2018 and April 28, 2018, respectively.
Diluted EPS reflects the potential dilution which may occur if securities or other obligations to issue common stock were exercised or converted into common stock or resulted in the issuance of common stock which share in our earnings.
Options outstanding to purchase 2,129 shares of common stock with a weighted average exercise price of $10.15 for the six months ended October 27, 2018 and 1,312 shares of common stock with a weighted average exercise price of $13.08 for the six months ended October 28, 2017 were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the effects would be anti-dilutive.
Precontract costs are generally expensed as incurred, unless they are directly associated with an anticipated contract and recoverability from that contract is probable.
Precontract costs directly associated with anticipated contracts expected to be recoverable include $359 and $217 as of October 27, 2018 and April 28, 2018, respectively.
These are included in Inventories on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
At contract inception, we identify performance obligations by reviewing the agreement for material distinct goods and services.
Goods and services are distinct when the customer can benefit from them on their own and our promises to transfer these items are identifiable from other promises within the contract.
When we are contracted to provide a single promise (an integrated system), we often treat it as a single performance obligation as we are providing goods and services with the same patterns of transfer, that are highly integrated or interdependent, that are modified or customized by other goods or services promised, or that provide a combined outcome for which the customer has contracted.
When less interdependency or integration is necessary, or the customer can benefit from distinct items, we separate the contract into multiple performance obligations.
We account for those warranties that extend beyond typical terms and include other services ("service-type warranty") as a separate performance obligation.
When separate performance obligations are identified, we allocate the transaction price to the individual performance obligation based on the best evidence and method we judge as faithfully depicting the value of the performance obligation.
We allocate revenue to each performance obligation on the relative the standalone selling price basis, when the standalone selling price is available.
Significant judgments and estimates are used in our revenue policies.
We maintain internal policies and procedures to provide guidance for those involved in recording revenue.
We account for these types of contracts as a combined single performance obligation with no segmentation between types of products and services.
In our judgment, this accounting treatment is most appropriate because the substantial part of our promise to customers is to provide significant integration services and incorporates individual goods and services into a combined output or system, often times the system is customized or significantly modified to the customers' desired configurations and location, and the interrelated goods and services provide utility to the customers as a package.
Revenue for uniquely configured (custom) or integrated systems is recognized over time.
Sales and profits are recognized over time following the cost-to-cost input method measured by the percentage of costs incurred to date as compared to estimated total costs for each contract.
The cost-to-cost input method is the most faithful depiction of our performance because it measures the value of the contract transferred to the customer.
Costs to perform include direct and indirect costs for contract design, production, integration, installation, and assurance-type warranty reserve.
Direct costs include material and components; manufacturing, project management, and engineering labor; and subcontracting expenses.
Indirect costs include allocated charges for such items as facilities and equipment depreciation and general overhead.
Provisions of estimated losses on uncompleted contracts are made in the period when such losses are capable of being estimated.
Contract modifications to existing contracts with customers are evaluated in accordance with the five-step revenue model.
We treat contract modifications as a separate contract and new performance obligations when the additional goods or services are distinct and do not add to the unique configuration or are outside the integrated system and when the consideration reflects standalone selling prices.
If the additional goods or services offered under the modification enhance the uniquely configured or integrated systems, revenue is allocated to the existing contracts' performance obligation.
The time between contract order and project completion is typically less than 12 months but may extend longer depending on the amount of custom work and customers’ delivery needs.
Revenue is recognized at a point in time when title or control passes, or over time as services are performed.
When limited configured single performance obligations are more service-type (i.e., installation and integration services), we recognize revenue over time using the cost-to-cost input method, which is the most faithful depiction of the customer obtaining control and benefits from the work performed.
Segment Reporting" for a disaggregation of revenue by geography.
Contract assets represent revenue recognized in excess of amounts billed and include unbilled receivables.
Unbilled receivables, which represent an unconditional right to payment subject only to the passage of time, are reclassified to accounts receivable when they are billed under the contract terms.
Contract liabilities represent amounts billed to the clients in excess of revenue recognized to date.
We had no material impairments of accounts receivable or contract assets for the year.
During the six months ended October 27, 2018, we recognized revenue of $30,667 related to our contract liabilities as of April 28, 2018.
As of October 27, 2018, the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to the remaining performance obligations was $201,955.
Remaining performance obligations related to product and service agreements are $150,123 and $51,832, respectively.
Any known project cancellations, revisions to project scope and cost, foreign currency exchange fluctuations and project deferrals are reflected or excluded in the remaining performance obligation balance as appropriate.
We have a cash management program which provides for the investment of cash balances not used in current operations.
We classify our investments in marketable securities as available-for-sale in accordance with the provisions of ASC 320, Investments – Debt and Equity Securities.
Marketable securities classified as available-for-sale are reported at fair value with unrealized gains or losses, net of tax, reported in accumulated other comprehensive loss on the condensed consolidated balance sheets.
As it relates to fixed income marketable securities, it is not likely we will be required to sell any of these investments before recovery of the entire amortized cost basis.
The cost of securities sold is based on the specific identification method.
Where quoted market prices are not available, we use the market price of similar types of securities traded in the market to estimate fair value.
accumulated other comprehensive loss into earnings based on the specific identification method.
In the six months ended October 27, 2018 and October 28, 2017, the reclassifications from accumulated other comprehensive loss to net earnings were immaterial.
Note 7. Business Combinations
AJT Systems, Inc. Acquisition
We acquired the net assets of AJT Systems, Inc. ("AJT"), a Florida-based company, on June 21, 2018.
AJT is a developer of real-time live to air graphics rendering and video server systems for the broadcast TV industry.
This acquisition will allow our organization to grow and strengthen our solution offerings to the market.
This acquisition was primarily funded with cash on hand.
No gain was recorded in the three or six months ended October 27, 2018.
We perform our annual analysis during our third quarter of each fiscal year, based on the goodwill amount as of the first business day of our third fiscal quarter.
The result of the analysis indicated no goodwill impairment existed for our third quarter in fiscal 2018, which began on October 30, 2017.
We are currently in the process of completing this annual analysis based on the goodwill amount as of the first business day of our third quarter of fiscal 2019, which began on October 29, 2018.
In conducting our impairment testing, we compare the fair value of each of our business units to the related carrying value of the allocated assets.
We utilize the income approach based on discounted projected cash flows to estimate the fair value of each unit.
Assets shared or not directly attributed to a reportable segment's activities are allocated to the reportable segment based on sales and other measures.
Accounts receivable are reported net of an allowance for doubtful accounts of $2,236 and $2,151 at October 27, 2018 and April 28, 2018, respectively.
Included in accounts receivable as of October 27, 2018 and April 28, 2018 was $2,013 and $964, respectively, of retainage on construction-type contracts, all of which is expected to be collected within one year.
In connection with certain sales transactions, we have entered into sales contracts with installment payments exceeding 12 months and sales-type leases.
We generally retain a security interest in the equipment or in the cash flow generated by the equipment until the contract is paid.
The present value of long-term contracts and lease receivables, including accrued interest and current maturities, was $2,653 and $3,393 as of October 27, 2018 and April 28, 2018, respectively.
Contract and lease receivables bearing annual interest rates of 4.8 to 9.0 percent are due in varying annual installments through 2024.
The face amount of long-term receivables was $2,929 as of October 27, 2018 and $3,733 as of April 28, 2018.
As of October 27, 2018 and April 28, 2018, we recorded a liability and related other receivable of $1,529 and $1,904 for a net claim from a customer against work performed by one of our subcontractors during installation which damaged our customer's property.
The amount recorded is for probable and reasonably estimated cost to remediate the damage.
Our subcontractor has full insurance for such matters, we have claims to a performance bond as additional collateral, and we carry insurance to cover such matters.
As of October 27, 2018 and April 28, 2018, a customer was withholding $2,224 of payment claiming we did not perform to the customer's specifications.
We believe we have performed to the agreed-upon written specifications, have strong contractual documentation to support our position, and a customer with wherewithal to pay.
We believe that we will ultimately prevail in collections.
We disclosed a warranty issue in Note 18 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 28, 2018 regarding a mechanical device failure within a module for displays.
During the six months ended October 27, 2018 and October 28, 2017, we recognized warranty expense for probable and reasonably estimated costs to remediate this issue of $1,335 and $3,439, respectively.
As of October 27, 2018, we had $1,301 remaining accrued warranty and maintenance agreement obligations for the estimate of probable future claims related to this issue.
We calculate the provision for income taxes during interim reporting periods by applying an estimate of the annual effective tax rate for the full fiscal year to “ordinary” income or loss (pre-tax income or loss excluding unusual or infrequently occurring discrete items) for the reporting period.
We recorded an effective tax rate expense of 5.8 percent and 0.0 percent for the three and six months ended October 27, 2018, respectively, and an effective tax rate expense of 24.6 percent and 27.5 percent for the three and six months ended October 28, 2017, respectively.
Pursuant to the Tax Act, the SEC staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
This provisional estimate was included in our consolidated financial statements as of April 28, 2018.
We did not make any measurement period adjustments during the first six months of fiscal 2019.
We expect to complete the analysis within the measurement period in accordance with SAB 118.
As of October 27, 2018, undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries were considered to have been reinvested indefinitely.
ASC 820, Fair Value Measurement, defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
It also establishes a fair value hierarchy which requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value.
The fair value hierarchy within ASC 820 distinguishes between the following three levels of inputs which may be utilized when measuring fair value.
Level 1 - Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 - Observable inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 for the assets or liabilities, either directly or indirectly (for example, quoted market prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets or quoted market prices for identical assets or liabilities in markets not considered to be active, inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability, or market-corroborated input).
Level 3 - Unobservable inputs supported by little or no market activity based on our own assumptions used to measure assets and liabilities.
The fair values for fixed-rate long-term receivables are estimated using a discounted cash flow analysis based on interest rates currently being offered for contracts with similar terms to customers with similar credit quality.
The carrying amounts reported on our condensed consolidated balance sheets for long-term receivables approximate fair value and have been categorized as a Level 2 fair value measurement.
Fair values for fixed-rate long-term marketing obligations are estimated using a discounted cash flow calculation applying interest rates currently being offered for debt with similar terms and underlying collateral.
The total carrying value of long-term marketing obligations as reported on our condensed consolidated balance sheets within other long-term obligations approximates fair value and has been categorized as a Level 2 fair value measurement.
The following table sets forth by Level within the fair value hierarchy our financial assets and liabilities that were accounted for at fair value on a recurring basis at October 27, 2018 and April 28, 2018 according to the valuation techniques we used to determine their fair values.
There have been no transfers of assets or liabilities among the fair value hierarchies presented.
The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value of each class of financial instrument.
There have been no changes in the valuation techniques used by us to value our financial instruments.
We utilize derivative financial instruments to manage the economic impact of fluctuations in currency exchange rates on those transactions denominated in currencies other than our functional currency, which is the U.S. dollar.
We enter into currency forward contracts to manage these economic risks.
We account for all derivatives on the condensed consolidated balance sheets within accounts receivable or accounts payable measured at fair value, and changes in fair values are recognized in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met for cash flow or net investment hedges.
As of October 27, 2018, there was an asset and liability of $187 and $7, respectively, and as of April 28, 2018, there was an asset and liability of $41 and $236, respectively, representing the fair value of foreign currency exchange forward contracts, which were determined using Level 2 inputs from a third-party bank.
Effective on November 16, 2018, the Board of Directors of the Company declared a dividend of one right (a “Right”) for each of the Company’s issued and outstanding shares of common stock, no par value per share.
The dividend was paid to the shareholders of record at the close of business on November 19, 2018 (the “Record Date”).
Each Right entitles the holder, subject to the terms of the “Rights Agreement” (as defined below), to purchase from the Company one one-thousandth of one share of the Company’s Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock at an initial exercise price of $25.00 per Right, subject to certain adjustments.
The description and terms of the Rights are set forth in the Rights Agreement dated as of November 16, 2018 (the “Rights Agreement”) between the Company and Equiniti Trust Company, as Rights Agent, and are more fully described in the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 16, 2018.
Item 1A.
of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 28, 2018.
