our competition; (ii.)
our financing plans; (iii.)
our growth and operating strategies; (v.) the declaration and payment of dividends; (vi.)
the timing and magnitude of future contracts; (vii.)
fluctuations in margins; (ix.)
the seasonality of our business; (x.)
the introduction of new products and technology; (xi.)
the timing and magnitude of any acquisitions or dispositions.
Risk Factors” and “Part II, Item 7.
This discussion should be read in conjunction with the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Report.
making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities not readily apparent from other sources.
We focus our sales and marketing efforts on markets, geographical regions and products.
Our five business segments consist of four domestic business units and the International business unit.
The four domestic business units consist of Commercial, Live Events, High School Park and Recreation, and Transportation, all of which include the geographic territories of the United States and Canada.
Disclosures related to our business segments are provided in "Note 5.
Segment Reporting" of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report.
Uniquely configured orders can include several displays, controllers, and subcontracted structure builds, each of which can occur on varied schedules per the customer's needs.
Our third fiscal quarter tends to be a slower quarter because it includes two holidays, it is affected by sports seasonality, and generally less outdoor construction work occurs due to weather conditions.
Uniquely configured orders involving competitive bidding and substantial subcontract work for product installation generally have lower gross margins.
Our remaining performance obligations ("backlog") consist of contractually binding sales agreements or purchase orders for integrated electronic display systems and related products and service.
Orders are included in backlog when we are in receipt of an executed contract and any required deposits or security.
As a result, certain orders for which we have received binding letters of intent or contracts will not be included in backlog until all required contractual documents and deposits are received.
Our backlog is not necessarily indicative of future net sales or net income.
Backlog is not a measure defined by GAAP, and our methodology for determining backlog may vary from the methodology used by other companies in determining their backlog amounts.
Our mission is to be the world leader at informing and entertaining audiences through dynamic audio-visual communication systems.
We organize into business units to focus on customer loyalty over time to earn new and replacement business because our products have a finite lifetime.
Segment Reporting" of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report for further information.
Our strategies include the creation of a comprehensive line of innovative solutions and systems and our ability to create and leverage platform designs and technologies.
These strategies align us to effectively deliver value to our varied customers and their market needs, while serving our stakeholders over the long-term.
We focus on creating local capabilities for sales, service, and manufacturing in geographies with expected digital market opportunities.
We believe consistently generating profitable growth will provide value to our stakeholders (customers, employees, shareholders, suppliers, and communities).
•our ability to generate profits over the long-term to provide a shareholder return.
As a result, additional competitors have entered the market, and each year we must sell more product to generate the same or greater level of net sales as in previous fiscal years.
However, the decline of digital solution pricing over the years and increased user adoption and applications have increased the size of the global market.
We can be impacted by short-term events like the U.S.
Administrative trade actions in 2018 or a number of other factors that are disclosed in "Item 1A.
Risk Factors" included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 27, 2019.
•Standard display product market growth due to market adoption and lower product costs, which drive marketplace expansion.
Standard display products are used to attract or communicate with customers and potential customers of retail, commercial, and other establishments.
Pricing and economic conditions are the principal factors that impact our success in this business unit.
We utilize a reseller network to distribute our standard products.
•National accounts standard display market opportunities due to customers' desire to communicate their message, advertising and content consistently across the country.
Increased demand is possible from national retailers, quick serve restaurants, petroleum retailers, and other nationwide organizations.
•Additional standard display offerings using micro-light emitting diode ("LED") designs.
•Dynamic messaging systems demand growth due to market adoption and expanded use of this technology.
•The use of architectural lighting products for commercial buildings, which real estate owners use to add accents or effects to an entire side or circumference of a building to communicate messages or to decorate the building.
•The continued deployment of digital billboards as Out-of-Home ("OOH") advertising companies continue developing new sites and replacing digital billboards reaching end of life.
•Lower product costs, driving an expansion of the marketplace.
•Our product and service offerings, including additional micro-LED offerings which remain the most integrated and comprehensive offerings in the industry.
•The competitive nature of sports teams, which strive to out-perform their competitors with display systems.
•The desire for high-definition video displays, which typically drives larger displays or higher resolution displays, both of which increase the average transaction size.
•Increasing use of LED technologies replacing signage previously using LCD technology in and surrounding live events facilities.
•Increased demand for video systems in high schools as school districts realize the revenue generating potential of these displays compared to traditional scoreboards and these systems' ability to provide or enhance academic curriculum offerings for students.
•Increased demand for different types of displays and dynamic messaging systems, such as message centers at schools to communicate to students, parents and the broader community.
•Lower system costs driving the use of more sophisticated displays in school athletic facilities, such as large integrated video systems.
•Expanding control system options tailored for the markets' needs.
Daktronics, Inc. operates on a 52- or 53-week fiscal year, with our fiscal year ending on the Saturday closest to April 30 of each year.
Within each fiscal year, each quarter is comprised of 13-week periods following the beginning of each fiscal year.
In each 53-week year, an additional week is added to the first quarter, and each of the last three quarters is comprised of a 13-week period.
Fiscal 2020 will be a 53-week year; therefore, the six months ended November 2, 2019 contains operating results for 27 weeks while the six months ended October 27, 2018 contains operating results for 26 weeks.
The decrease in orders for the three months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was primarily due to the softer market in the on-premise and OOH niches, partially offset by an increase in large orders in the spectacular niche.
Orders decreased for the three months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago due to a decrease in the number of projects for college and universities venues.
Orders increased for the three months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago due to the variability in order timing.
Orders decreased for the three months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was due to the variability of timing caused by large projects.
Orders increased for the three months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to general variations in the timing of account-based order placements.
The product order backlog as of November 2, 2019 was $182 million as compared to $150 million as of October 27, 2018 and $207 million at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2020.
The product order backlog as of November 2, 2019 increased in all business units from October 27, 2018.
Gross profit is net sales less cost of sales.
The gross profit percent decreased in our Commercial, Live Events, and High School Park and Recreation business units for the reasons described above.
Additionally, the Commercial business unit experienced increased costs related to products covered under long-term service agreements.
The gross profit percent increased in the Transportation business unit primarily due to higher sales volumes over relatively fixed infrastructure costs, which was partially offset by an increase in warranty expense.
Contribution margin consists of gross profit less selling expenses.
Selling expense in our Commercial and High School Park and Recreation business units increased in the second quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to the same quarter a year ago due to personnel related expenses and increased marketing efforts.
Selling expense in our International business unit decreased in the second quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to the same quarter a year ago due to bad debt recovery and a decrease in third-party commissions.
Selling expense in our Live Events and Transportation business units for the second quarter of fiscal 2020 remained relatively flat compared to the same quarter a year ago.
General and administrative expenses in the second quarter of fiscal 2020 increased as compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to an increase in professional fees and personnel related expenses.
Product design and development investments in the near term are focused on developing or improving our video technology over a wide range of pixel pitches for both indoor and outdoor applications.
These new or improved technologies are focused on varied pixel density for image quality and use, expanded product line offerings for our various markets and geographies, improved quality and reliability, and improved cost points.
We plan to make continued investments in our software and controller capabilities throughout our various product offerings.
Through our design efforts, we focus on standardizing display components and control systems for both single site and network displays.
The change in interest income, net for the second quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to the same period one year ago was primarily due to the change in investment levels caused by the volatility of working capital needs.
We calculate the provision for income taxes during interim reporting periods by applying an estimate of the annual effective tax rate for the full fiscal year to “ordinary” income or loss (pretax income or loss excluding unusual or infrequently occurring discrete items) for the reporting period.
We have recorded an effective tax rate benefit of 63.8 percent for the second quarter of fiscal 2020 as compared to an effective tax rate expense of 5.8 percent for the second quarter of fiscal 2019.
The change in the effective tax rate, as compared to the same period one year ago, is primarily driven by differences in estimated tax credits proportionate to estimated pre-tax book income for the period.
This change was driven by the order volume reasons described below and the timing of conversion related to the seasonality in our business.
For orders, during the first six months ended November 2, 2019, we achieved a $12.5 million per week average run rate as compared to $12.0 million per week during the first six months ended October 27, 2018, or an approximate 4.8% increase.
We had an increase in orders placed during the first six months ended November 2, 2019 related to new releases of our product offerings.
Orders increased for the six months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago due to an increase in the number of projects for professional sports and arena venues.
Orders decreased for the six months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago due to the variability in order timing and a decrease in large video projects compared to the same period last year.
Orders decreased for the six months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to the variability of timing caused by large projects.
Orders increased for the six months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to general variations in the timing of large contracts in professional sports stadium and account-based order placements.
Gross profit is net sales less cost of sales.
The decrease in our gross profit percentage for the six months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was primarily due to an increase in tariff related expenses of approximately $2.6 million, or a 0.7% impact to gross profit, as last year at this time tariffs were just being introduced on US imports of aluminum, steel, and components from China.
We also experienced additional expenses of approximately $3.0 million for project delivery costs and for an existing litigation claim estimate.
Total warranty as a percent of sales decreased to 2.2% for the three months ended November 2, 2019 as compared to 2.5% during the six months ended October 27,
The gross profit percent increased in the Transportation and International business units primarily due to higher sales volumes over relatively fixed infrastructure costs.
Contribution margin consists of gross profit less selling expenses.
All areas of selling expenses were impacted as a result of the six months ended November 2, 2019 including 27 weeks compared to the more common 26 weeks.
Selling expense in our Commercial, Live Events, and High School Park and Recreation business units increased in the six months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period a year ago primarily due to personnel related expenses and increased marketing efforts.
Selling expenses in our International business unit decreased in the six months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to bad debt recovery and a decrease in third-party commissions.
Selling expenses in our Transportation business unit remained relatively flat in the six months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago.
All areas of operating expenses were impacted as a result of the six months ended November 2, 2019 including 27 weeks compared to the more common 26 weeks.
General and administrative expenses in the six months ended November 2, 2019 increased as compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to an increase in professional fees and personnel related expenses.
Product design and development investments in the near term are focused on developing or improving our video technology over a wide range of pixel pitches for both indoor and outdoor applications.
geographies, improved quality and reliability, and improved cost points.
We plan to make continued investments in our software and controller capabilities throughout our various product offerings.
Through our design efforts, we focus on standardizing display components and control systems for both single site and network displays.
To deliver value to our customers and meet the markets' needs, we expect an increase in expenditures for new or enhanced customer solutions.
The change in interest income, net in the six months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was primarily due to the change in investment levels caused by the volatility of working capital needs.
Our effective tax rate benefit was 14.6 percent for the six months ended November 2, 2019 as compared to an effective tax rate of 0.0 percent for the six months ended October 27, 2018.
The change in the effective tax rate, as compared to the same period one year ago, is primarily driven by differences in tax credits proportionate to estimated pre-tax book income for the period.
Net cash used in operating activities was $10.3 million for the first six months of fiscal 2020 compared to net cash provided by operating activities of $22.6 million in the first six months of fiscal 2019.
The $32.9 million decrease in cash used in operating activities from the first six months of fiscal 2019 to the first six months of fiscal 2020 was the result of changes in net operating assets and liabilities of $33.8 million, $0.6 million in depreciation and amortization, and $0.6 million in other non-cash items, net, adjusted by a $1.1 million increase in net income and $1.0 million contingent liability adjustment.
Balances are also impacted by the sports market seasonality.
Working capital was $126.6 million and $119.6 million at November 2, 2019 and April 27, 2019, respectively.
We often receive down payments or progress payments on these orders.
We had $3.9 million of retainage on long-term contracts included in receivables and contract assets as of November 2, 2019, which has an impact on our liquidity.
We expect to collect these amounts within one year.
When working capital is needed, we have historically financed our cash needs through a combination of cash flow from operations and borrowings under bank credit agreements.
During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019, we violated one of our bank covenants, but we received a waiver from our banking institution for the year ended April 27, 2019.
On November 15, 2019, we entered into an amendment to extend the maturity date of our credit agreement and a related revolving bank note from November 15, 2019 to November 15, 2022 and to modify certain other terms and financial covenants.
The credit agreement is unsecured and requires us to be in compliance with certain financial ratios and other covenants.
As of November 2, 2019, there were no advances to us under the loan portion of the line of credit, and the balance of letters of credit outstanding was approximately $9.6 million.
On November 15, 2016, we entered into an amended and restated loan agreement and a related revolving note and continuing and unconditional guaranty agreement with another bank which supported our credit needs outside of the United States.
Therefore, the loan agreement and related revolving note and guaranty expired and terminated according to their terms on November 15, 2019, and we have no continuing obligations or liability under this loan agreement, revolving note, and guaranty.
We are sometimes required to obtain bank guarantees or other financial instruments for display installations and we have a global banking relationship to provide such instruments.
If we are unable to meet the terms of the arrangement, our customer would draw on the banking arrangement, and the bank would subrogate its loss to Daktronics.
As of November 2, 2019, we had $5.6 million of such instruments outstanding.
We are sometimes required to obtain performance bonds for display installations, and we have a bonding line available through a surety company for an aggregate of $150.0 million in bonded work outstanding.
At November 2, 2019, we had $8.4 million of bonded work outstanding against this line.
We are projecting capital expenditures to be less than $25 million for fiscal 2020 for purchases of manufacturing equipment for new or enhanced product production, expanded capacity, investments in quality and reliability equipment, and continued information infrastructure investments.
We believe our working capital available from all sources will be adequate to meet the cash requirements of our operations and strategies in the foreseeable future.
There has been no material change in our off-balance sheet arrangements and contractual obligations since the end of our 2019 fiscal year on April 27, 2019.
For additional information, see our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 27, 2019.
We describe our significant accounting policies in "Note 1.
Nature of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 27, 2019.
We discuss our critical accounting estimates in "Part II, Item 7.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 27, 2019.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2020, we adopted new lease guidance, as described in "Note 1.
Basis of Presentation" of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report.
There have been no other significant changes in our significant accounting policies or critical accounting estimates since the end of fiscal 2019.
For a summary of recently issued accounting pronouncements and the effects of those pronouncements on our financial results, refer to "Note 1.
Basis of Presentation" of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report.
