our competition; (ii.)
our financing plans; (iii.)
our growth strategy and operating strategy; (v.) the declaration and payment of dividends; (vi.)
the timing and magnitude of future contracts; (vii.)
fluctuations in margins; (ix.)
the seasonality of our business; (x.)
the introduction of new products and technology; (xi.)
the amount and frequency of warranty claims; (xii.)
the timing and magnitude of any acquisitions or dispositions.
Risk Factors” and "Item 7.
This discussion should be read in conjunction with the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Report.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
We focus our sales and marketing efforts on markets, geographical regions and products.
Our five business segments consist of four domestic business units and the International business unit.
The four domestic business units consist of Commercial, Live Events, High School Park and Recreation, and Transportation, all of which include the geographic territories of the United States and Canada.
Disclosures related to our business segments are provided in "Note 5.
Segment Reporting" of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report.
Our net sales and profitability historically have fluctuated due to the impact of uniquely configured orders, such as display systems for professional sports facilities, colleges and universities, and spectacular projects in the commercial area, as well as the seasonality of the sports market.
Uniquely configured orders can include several displays, controllers, and subcontracted structure builds, each of which can occur on varied schedules per the customer's needs.
Outdoor installations sales can be impacted by outdoor weather conditions and the construction season.
Our third fiscal quarter tends to be a slower quarter because it includes two holidays and generally less outdoor construction work occurs.
Uniquely configured orders involving competitive bidding and substantial subcontract work for product installation generally have lower gross margins.
Our remaining performance obligations ("backlog") consist of contractually binding sales agreements or purchase orders for integrated electronic display systems and related products and excludes extended service agreements and service only orders.
in backlog when we are in receipt of an executed contract and any required deposits or security.
As a result, certain orders for which we have received binding letters of intent or contracts will not be included in backlog until all required contractual documents and deposits are received.
Our mission is to be the world leader at informing and entertaining audiences through dynamic audio-visual communication systems.
Our success is contingent on the depth and quality of our products, including related control systems, the depth of our service offerings and our technology serving these market demands.
These qualities are important for our long-term success because our products have finite lifetimes, and we strive to win replacement business from existing customers.
Increases in user adoption, the acceptance of a variety of digital solutions, and the decline of digital solution pricing over the years has increased the size of the global market.
With this positive demand, strong competition exists across all of our business units, which causes margin constraints.
Projects with multimillion-dollar revenue potential also attract competition, which generally reduces profitability.
We organize around customer segments and geographic regions as further described in "Note 5.
Segment Reporting" of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report.
•Standard display product market growth due to market adoption and lower product costs, which drive marketplace expansion.
Standard display products are used to attract or communicate with customers and potential customers of retail, commercial, and other establishments.
Pricing and economic conditions are the principal factors that impact our success in this business unit.
We utilize a reseller network to distribute our standard products.
•National accounts standard display market opportunities due to customers' desire to communicate their message, advertising and content consistently across the country.
Increased demand is possible from retailers, quick serve restaurants, petroleum businesses, and other nationwide organizations.
•Increasing interest in spectaculars, which include very large and sometimes highly customized displays as part of entertainment venues such as casinos, shopping centers, cruise ships and Times Square type locations.
•Dynamic messaging systems demand growth due to market adoption and marketplace expansion.
•The use of architectural lighting products for commercial buildings, which real estate owners use to add accents or effects to an entire side or circumference of a building to communicate messages or to decorate the building.
•The continued deployment of digital billboards as Out-of-Home ("OOH") companies continue developing new sites and replacing digital billboards which are reaching end of life.
This is dependent on there being no adverse changes in the digital billboard regulatory environment restricting future deployments of billboards, as well as maintaining our current market share of the business concentrated in a few large OOH companies.
•Lower product costs, driving an expansion of the marketplace.
•Our product and service offerings, which remain the most integrated and comprehensive offerings in the industry.
•The competitive nature of sports teams, which strive to out-perform their competitors with display systems.
•The desire for high-definition video displays, which typically drives larger displays or higher resolution displays, both of which increase the average transaction size.
•Increased demand for video systems in high schools as school districts realize the revenue generating potential of these displays versus traditional scoreboards.
•Increased demand for different types of displays and dynamic messaging systems, such as message centers at schools to communicate to students, parents and the broader community.
•The use of more sophisticated displays in school athletic facilities, such as large integrated video systems.
As a result, each year we must sell more product to generate the same or greater level of net sales as in previous fiscal years.
This price decline has been significant as a result of increased competition across all business units.
For fiscal year 2019, while we remain optimistic about long-term growth in the digital display industry, the U.S.
Administrative trade actions, including tariffs and sanctions, and related reactions and responses outside the U.S. is very dynamic.
The increase in orders for the three months ended July 28, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago was the net result of volatility in order timing of large custom projects in the spectacular niche.
Orders in the on-premise niche and OOH niche remained relatively flat year over year.
Orders decreased for the three months ended July 28, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago due to the decreased number of projects in professional sports and college and universities venues and due to an order cancellation.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2018, we were awarded seven projects each valued at over $2 million as compared to only two projects each valued at over $2 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Orders increased for the three months ended July 28, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago due to overall strong market demand and an increase in projects for larger video systems.
Orders increased for the three months ended July 28, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to increased demand for global OOH niche customers and professional sports stadiums and the related variability of timing caused by large projects.
The product order backlog as of July 28, 2018 was $177 million as compared to $184 million as of July 29, 2017 and $171 million at the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018.
The product order backlog as of July 28, 2018 increased from July 29, 2017 in our Commercial, High School Park and Recreation, Transportation and International business units and decreased in our Live Event business unit.
Gross profit is net sales less cost of sales.
Contribution margin is comprised of gross profit less selling expenses.
Selling expense in our Commercial, Live Events, High School Park and Recreation, and Transportation business units for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 remained relatively flat compared to the same quarter a year ago.
Selling expense in our International business unit increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the same quarter a year ago due to third-party commissions and increased personnel expenses.
Product design and development investments in the near term are focused on developing or improving our video technology over a wide range of pixel pitches for both indoor and outdoor applications.
These new or improved technologies are focused on varied pixel density for image quality and use, expanded product line offerings for our various markets and geographies, improved quality and reliability, and improved cost points.
We plan to make continued investments in our software and controller capabilities throughout our various product offerings.
Through all design efforts, we focus on standardizing display components and control systems for both single site and network displays.
To deliver value to our customers and serve the markets' expectations, we expect similar level of expenditures for new or enhanced customer solutions for the remainder of fiscal 2019 as compared to fiscal 2018.
The change in interest income, net for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was primarily due to the change in investment levels caused by the volatility of working capital needs and changes in investing and financing activities.
Our effective tax rate benefit was 13.1 percent for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to an effective tax rate expense of 29.7 percent for the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
Net cash used in operating activities was $10.3 million for the first three months of fiscal 2019 compared to net cash used in operating activities of $4.9 million in the first three months of fiscal 2018.
The $5.4 million decrease in cash from operating activities from the first three months of fiscal 2018 to the first three months of fiscal 2019 was the net result of changes in net operating assets and liabilities of $1.4 million, a $0.1 million gain on the sale of property, equipment and other assets, $0.1 million in deferred income taxes, and a $3.9 million decrease in net income, adjusted by an increase of $0.1 million in other non-cash items, net.
Balances are also impacted by the seasonality of the sports markets.
Working capital was $132.9 million and $132.8 million at July 28, 2018 and April 28, 2018, respectively.
We have historically financed working capital needs through a combination of cash flow from operations and borrowings under bank credit agreements.
We have used and expect to continue to use cash balances to meet our short-term working capital requirements.
We often receive down payments or progress payments on these product orders.
To the extent these payments are not sufficient to fund the costs and other expenses associated with these orders, we use working capital and bank borrowings to finance these cash requirements.
On November 15, 2016, we entered into a credit agreement and a related revolving note with a U.S. bank.
The revolving amount of the agreement and note is $35.0 million, including up to $15.0 million for commercial and standby letters of credits.
The interest rate ranges from LIBOR plus 145 basis points to LIBOR plus 195 basis points depending on the ratio of our interest-bearing debt to EBITDA.
EBITDA is defined as net income before deductions for interest expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization, all as determined in accordance with GAAP.
We are assessed a loan fee equal to 0.125 percent per annum on any unused portion of the loan.
The ratio is equal to (a) EBITDA minus the sum of dividends or other distributions (unless the bank approves), share repurchases, a maintenance capital expenditure reserve in the amount of $6.0 million, and income tax to (b) all principal and interest payments with respect to indebtedness, excluding principal payments on the line of credit; and
•A ratio of funded debt, excluding any marketing obligations, to EBITDA of less than 1 to 1 at the end of any fiscal quarter.
On November 15, 2016, we entered into an amended and restated loan agreement and a continuing and unlimited guaranty agreement with another U.S. bank which supports our credit needs outside of the United States.
We intend to use the borrowings under the agreement to support credit needs for general corporate purposes outside the United States.
It contains the same covenants as the credit agreement on the line of credit and contains an inter creditor agreement whereby the debt has a cross default provision with the primary credit agreement.
As of July 28, 2018, there were no advances outstanding under the loan agreement and approximately $1.2 million in bank guarantees under this line of credit.
As of July 28, 2018, we were in compliance with all applicable bank loan covenants.
Although we expect to continue to pay dividends for the foreseeable future, the nature and amounts of dividends will be reviewed regularly and declared by the Board at its discretion.
We are sometimes required to obtain performance bonds for display installations, and we have a bonding line available through a surety company for an aggregate of $150.0 million in bonded work outstanding.
If we were unable to complete the work and our customer would call upon the bond for payment, the surety company would subrogate its loss to Daktronics.
We are projecting capital expenditures to be less than $20.0 million for fiscal 2019 for purchases of manufacturing equipment for new or enhanced product production, expanded capacity, investments in quality and reliability equipment, and continued information infrastructure investments.
We believe our working capital available from all sources will be adequate to meet the cash requirements of our operations in the foreseeable future.
There has been no material change in our off-balance sheet arrangements and contractual obligations since the fiscal year ended April 28, 2018.
For additional information, see our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 28, 2018.
We describe our significant accounting policies in "Note 1.
Nature of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 28, 2018.
We discuss our critical accounting estimates in "Part II, Item 7.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 28, 2018.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we adopted new revenue recognition guidance, as described in "Note 1.
Basis of Presentation" of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report.
There have been no other significant changes in our significant accounting policies or critical accounting estimates since the end of fiscal 2018.
For a summary of recently issued accounting pronouncements and the effects of those pronouncements on our financial results, refer to "Note 1.
Basis of Presentation" of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report.
During the three months ended July 28, 2018, we did not repurchase any shares of our common stock.
