fls.txt
However, caution should be taken not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements because such statements speak only as of the date when made.


item1.txt
The terms “we,” “us,” “our,” the “Company” or “Mesa” are used in this report to refer collectively to the parent company and the subsidiaries through which our various businesses are conducted.
Our Sterilization and Disinfection Control Division (formerly named the Biological Indicators Division) provides testing services, along with the manufacturing and marketing of both biological and cleaning indicators, and the marketing of chemical indicators used to assess the effectiveness of sterilization and disinfection processes in the hospital, dental, medical device and pharmaceutical industries.
The accompanying unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the same basis as our annual audited consolidated financial statements and in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”) for interim financial information and the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) for interim financial statements.
In  May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which will replace most existing revenue recognition guidance in U.S. GAAP and is intended to improve and converge with international standards the financial reporting requirements for revenue from contracts with customers.
The core principle of ASU 2014-09 is that an entity should recognize revenue for the transfer of goods or services equal to the amount that it expects to be entitled to receive for those goods or services.
We plan to adopt ASU 2014-09 and its amendments on a modified retrospective basis and are continuing to assess all future impacts of the guidance by reviewing our current contracts with customers to identify potential differences that could result from applying the new guidance.
As we continue our assessment, we are also identifying and preparing to implement minor changes to our accounting policies and practices, business processes, systems and controls to support the new revenue recognition and disclosure requirements.
In  January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-04, Intangibles – Goodwill and Other, which eliminates the requirement to calculate the implied fair value of goodwill to measure a goodwill impairment charge.
During the nine months ended  December 31, 2017, revenues in our Cold Chain Packaging reporting segment decreased significantly as compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to a significant decrease in revenues from our largest customer and the loss of the business of one of our larger customers.
During the three months ended  December 31, 2017 we completed a detailed review of the cold chain packaging business and concluded that long and difficult sales-cycles associated with this product set, when coupled with higher than previously contemplated costs for operating and expanding the necessary infrastructure to support revenues growth have resulted in a forecast of lower than expected revenues, gross margin percentages and overall profitability as compared to our original model for this business.
As a result, we reviewed the long-lived assets associated with this reporting segment and recorded a $13,819,000 impairment charge related to goodwill, which is included in impairment loss on goodwill on the accompanying condensed consolidated statements of operations for the three and nine months ended  December 31, 2017.


item2.txt
Our Sterilization and Disinfection Control Division (formerly named the Biological Indicators Division) provides testing services, along with the manufacturing and marketing of both biological and cleaning indicators, and the marketing of chemical indicators used to assess the effectiveness of sterilization and disinfection processes in the hospital, dental, medical device and pharmaceutical industries.
Our Cold Chain Monitoring Division designs, develops and markets systems which are used to monitor various environmental parameters such as temperature, humidity and differential pressure to ensure that critical storage and processing conditions are maintained in hospitals, pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers, blood banks, pharmacies and other laboratory and industrial environments.
Sterilization and Disinfection Control products and many of the packaging products of our Cold Chain Packaging Division are disposable and are used on a routine basis, thus product sales are less sensitive to general economic conditions.
In April 2016, we completed a business combination (the “ATS Acquisition”) whereby we acquired substantially all the assets (other than cash and certain inventories and fixed assets) and certain liabilities of Autoclave Testing Services, Inc. and Autoclave Testing Supplies, Inc., (collectively, “ATS”).
ATS was in the business of supplying products and services for dental sterilizer testing in both the U.S. and Canada; and During the year ending March 31, 2018, we continue to build our infrastructure to prepare for future growth, including the relocation of our Omaha, Traverse City and old Bozeman manufacturing facilities into the new Bozeman building, the addition of key personnel to our operations, sales and marketing, and research and development teams and the rollout of phase three of our ERP implementation project (European operations).
Overall revenues declined one percent, while organic revenues declined four percent, for the three months ended December 31, 2017, resulting from organic decreases of nine and 36 percent from the Instruments and Cold Chain Packaging Divisions, respectively, partially offset by increases of seven and three percent for the Sterilization and Disinfection Control and Cold Chain Monitoring Divisions, respectively.
Overall revenues were flat, while organic revenues declined two percent, for the nine months ended December 31, 2017 resulting from organic decreases of four, four and 36 percent from the Instruments, Cold Chain Monitoring and Cold Chain Packaging Divisions, respectively, partially offset by an increase of nine percent for the Sterilization and Disinfection Control Division.
During the three months ended June 30, 2017, we elected to discontinue for sale certain products in our Instruments, Cold Chain Monitoring and Sterilization and Disinfection Control Divisions due to the recent introduction of new or modified products and the consolidation of other product sets.
As part of this process, we analyzed the remaining inventories associated with these products to determine future usability and reserved against what we believed to be excess or obsolete, resulting in an increase in our inventory reserve of $406,000 (of which $216,000 related to the Cold Chain Monitoring Division).
During both the three months ended September 30, 2017 and December 31, 2017, we subjected additional inventories to our liquidation program due to the discontinuance or winding-down of additional older product sets resulting from the release of our new ViewPoint operating platform.
Company-wide gross margin percentage for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017 was 54 and 56 percent, respectively but would have been 61 and 59 percent, respectively without the impact of these additional inventory reserves.
Due to these two events, we believe that revenues for this segment will now be approximately $2,250,000 to $2,750,000 lower for the year ending March 31, 2018 as compared to the year ended March 31, 2017.
During the three months ended December 31, 2017 we completed a detailed review of the cold chain packaging business and concluded that long and difficult sales-cycles associated with this product set, when coupled with higher than previously contemplated costs for operating and expanding the necessary infrastructure to support revenues growth, have resulted in a forecast of lower than expected revenues, gross margin percentages and overall profitability as compared to our original model for this business.
As a result, we reviewed the long-lived assets associated with this reporting segment and recorded a $13,819,000 impairment charge related to goodwill, which is included in impairment charge of goodwill on the accompanying condensed consolidated statements of operations for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Our management evaluated, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2017.


part2.txt
See Note 9 – Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q) for information regarding any legal proceedings in which we may be involved.
The changes included in the TCJA are both broad and complex.


