fls.txt
However, caution should be taken not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements because such statements speak only as of the date when made.


item1.txt
In this quarterly report on Form 10-Q, Mesa Laboratories, Inc., a Colorado corporation, together with its subsidiaries is collectively referred to as “we,” “us,” “our,” the “Company” or “Mesa.” We are organized into four divisions across nine physical locations.
Biological, cleaning, and chemical indicators are used to assess the effectiveness of sterilization and disinfection processes in the hospital, dental, medical device, and pharmaceutical industries.
The division also provides testing and laboratory services, mainly to the dental industry.
Our Cold Chain Monitoring Division designs, develops, and markets systems which are used to monitor various environmental parameters such as temperature, humidity, and differential pressure to ensure that critical storage and processing conditions are maintained in hospitals, pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers, blood banks, pharmacies, and laboratory environments.
Our Cold Chain Packaging Division provides packaging development consulting services and thermal packaging products such as coolers, boxes, insulation materials, and phase-change products to control temperature during the customer’s transport of their own products.
GAAP”) for interim financial information and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
This quarterly report should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements included in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2018.
The principal change to our financial reporting will be the inclusion of the annual disclosure requirement of changes in stockholders’ equity in Rule 3-04 of Regulation S-X to interim periods.
The pronouncement requires lessees to recognize a liability for lease obligations, which represents the discounted obligation to make future minimum lease payments, and a corresponding right-of-use asset on the balance sheet for all leases with terms greater than 12 months.
The guidance also requires qualitative and quantitative disclosures designed to present financial statement users with the ability to assess the amount, timing, and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
We have initiated our plan for the adoption and implementation of this new accounting standard, including assessing our lease arrangements, evaluating practical expedients, and making necessary changes to our accounting policies, processes, and internal controls over financial reporting.
We expect to adopt the standard using the optional transition method, which will allow us to apply the standard as of the effective date, therefore we will not apply changes to comparative periods presented in our financial statements.
ASU 606 requires an entity to recognize revenue for the transfer of goods or services equal to the amount it expects to be entitled to receive for the goods and services.
The primary impact of adoption was the enhancement of disclosures to provide additional clarity regarding how revenue is earned and recognized, and to show revenues at a more disaggregated level, included in Note 2.
We have adopted this standard and will continue to evaluate indicators that may give rise to a change in our tax provision as a result of the TCJA.


item2.txt
Biological, cleaning, and chemical indicators are used to assess the effectiveness of sterilization and disinfection processes in the hospital, dental, medical device, and pharmaceutical industries.
Our Instruments Division designs, manufactures, and markets quality control instruments and disposable products utilized in the healthcare, pharmaceutical, food and beverage, medical device, industrial hygiene, and environmental air sampling industries.
Our Cold Chain Monitoring Division designs, develops, and markets systems which are used to monitor various environmental parameters such as temperature, humidity, and differential pressure to ensure that critical storage and processing conditions are maintained in hospitals, pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers, blood banks, pharmacies, and laboratory environments.
Our Cold Chain Packaging Division provides packaging development consulting services and thermal packaging products such as coolers, boxes, insulation materials, and phase-change products to control temperature during the customer’s transport of their own products.
Sterilization and disinfection control products and most products in our Cold Chain Packaging Division are disposable and are used on a routine basis, thus product sales are less sensitive to general economic conditions.
Service demand is driven by our customers’ quality control and regulatory environments, which require periodic repair and recalibration or certification of our instrument products and cold chain monitoring systems.
During the six months ended September 30, 2018, we continued to build our infrastructure to prepare for future growth, including completing the relocation and sale of the old Bozeman manufacturing facility, moving those operations into the new Bozeman building, the addition of key personnel to our operations, sales and marketing, and research and development teams, and the continued rollout of phase three of our ERP implementation project (European operations).
Overall revenues increased eight percent, while organic revenues increased three percent, for the three months ended September 30, 2018, resulting from organic increases of nine percent and three percent from the Instruments and SDC Divisions, respectively, partially offset by organic decreases of six percent and 11 percent for the Cold Chain Monitoring and Cold Chain Packaging Divisions, respectively.
Overall revenues increased 10 percent, while organic revenues increased three percent, for the six months ended September 30, 2018, resulting from organic increases of 23 percent, five percent, and two percent from the Cold Chain Packaging, Instruments, and Cold Chain Monitoring Divisions, respectively, partially offset by an organic decrease of one percent for the SDC Division.
Instruments revenues for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 increased nine percent and five percent, respectively, primarily due to the timing of orders and modest price increases.
Cold Chain Packaging revenues decreased 11 percent and increased 24 percent for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, as a result of changes in the order rate of the division’s largest customer.
During the three months ended June 30, 2018, the customer’s order rate was higher than usual, resulting in organic growth for the six months ended September 30, 2018.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
“Commitments and Contingencies” within Item 1.


