fls.txt
However, caution should be taken not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements because such statements speak only as of the date when made.


item1.txt
Biological, cleaning, and chemical indicators are used to assess the effectiveness of sterilization and disinfection processes in the hospital, dental, medical device, and pharmaceutical industries.
Our Instruments Division designs, manufactures, and markets quality control instruments and disposable products utilized in the healthcare, pharmaceutical, food and beverage, medical device, industrial hygiene, and environmental air sampling industries.
Our Cold Chain Monitoring Division designs, develops, and markets systems which are used to monitor various environmental parameters such as temperature, humidity, and differential pressure to ensure that critical storage and processing conditions are maintained in hospitals, pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers, blood banks, pharmacies, and laboratory environments.
Our Cold Chain Packaging Division provides packaging development consulting services and thermal packaging products such as coolers, boxes, insulation materials, and phase-change products to control temperature during the customer’s transport of their own products.
GAAP”) for interim financial information and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
This quarterly report should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements included in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2018.
As of December 31, 2018 and March 31, 2018, our financial instruments were categorized as Level 1 (inputs are quoted prices in active markets) and include cash, accounts receivable, accounts payable, accrued liabilities and short-term and long-term debt.
With the exception of long-term debt, the carrying value of these financial instruments is considered to be representative of their fair value due to the short maturity of these instruments.
We made an initial allocation of the purchase price at the date of acquisition based on our understanding of the fair value of acquired assets and assumed liabilities.
We obtained the information to make the allocation during due diligence and through the use of other information available to us.
In the months after closing, we will obtain additional information about the assets and liabilities acquired, including asset appraisals, and we will refine the estimates of the fair value to more accurately allocate the purchase price.
The pronouncement requires lessees to recognize a liability for lease obligations, which represents the discounted obligation to make future minimum lease payments, and a corresponding right-of-use asset on the balance sheet for all leases with terms greater than 12 months.
The guidance also requires qualitative and quantitative disclosures designed to present financial statement users with the ability to assess the amount, timing, and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
We expect to adopt the standard using the optional transition method, which will allow us to apply the standard as of the effective date, therefore we will not apply changes to comparative periods presented in our financial statements.
The principal change to our financial reporting is the inclusion of the annual disclosure requirement of changes in stockholders’ equity in Rule 3-04 of Regulation S-X to interim periods.


item2.txt
Biological, cleaning, and chemical indicators are used to assess the effectiveness of sterilization and disinfection processes in the hospital, dental, medical device, and pharmaceutical industries.
Our Instruments Division designs, manufactures, and markets quality control instruments and disposable products utilized in the healthcare, pharmaceutical, food and beverage, medical device, industrial hygiene, and environmental air sampling industries.
Our Cold Chain Monitoring Division designs, develops, and markets systems which are used to monitor various environmental parameters such as temperature, humidity, and differential pressure to ensure that critical storage and processing conditions are maintained in hospitals, pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers, blood banks, pharmacies, and laboratory environments.
Our Cold Chain Packaging Division provides packaging development consulting services and thermal packaging products such as coolers, boxes, insulation materials, and phase-change products to control temperature during the customer’s transport of their own products.
Sterilization and disinfection control products and most products in our Cold Chain Packaging Division are disposable and are used on a routine basis, thus product sales are less sensitive to general economic conditions.
Service demand is driven by our customers’ quality control and regulatory environments, which require periodic repair and recalibration or certification of our instrument products and cold chain monitoring systems.
During the nine months ended December 31, 2018, we completed a business combination (the “Point Six Wireless Acquisition”) whereby we acquired substantially all of the assets (other than current assets) and certain liabilities of Point Six Wireless, LLC’s continuous monitoring business.
During the nine months ended December 31, 2018, we continued to build our infrastructure to prepare for future growth, including completing the relocation and sale of the old Bozeman manufacturing facility, moving those operations into the new Bozeman building, the addition of key personnel to our operations, sales and marketing, and research and development teams, and the continued rollout of phase three of our ERP implementation project (European operations), which was completed as of December 31, 2018.
During the three months ended December 31, 2018, we performed a financial analysis of the Cold Chain Packaging Division, which revealed that gross profits for the segment continue to decline, primarily due to rising commodity costs.
As a result, we performed an impairment test on the reporting segment, and recognized non-cash impairment charges of $1,028 on goodwill and $2,641 on long-lived assets, in impairment loss on goodwill and long-lived assets on the accompanying condensed consolidated statements of operations.
Instruments revenues for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018 increased 14 percent and eight percent, respectively, primarily due to the timing of orders and modest price increases.
Instrument revenues for the three months ended December 31, 2017 were impacted by a slower than expected adoption of an updated medical product and the discontinuation of its predecessor product.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
“Commitments and Contingencies” within Item 1.


