Item 1. Financial Statements
Note 1. Description of Business and Significant Accounting Policies
Basis of presentation
The accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) in the United States of America (“U.S.”) for interim financial information. In the opinion of management, the unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contain all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring items, except as otherwise noted, necessary for the fair presentation of our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows for the interim periods. These unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 30, 2018. The results of operations for the three and six months ended September 28, 2018, are not necessarily indicative of the results expected for the entire fiscal year.
There have been no material changes to our significant accounting policies as of and for the six months ended September 28, 2018, except for those noted in Note 2 and Note 3, as compared to the significant accounting policies described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 30, 2018.
Revenue Recognition - Contracts with Customers. In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued new authoritative guidance for revenue from contracts with customers. The standard’s core principle is that a company recognizes revenue when it transfers promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that the company expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services. In addition, companies are required to capitalize certain contract acquisition costs, including commissions paid, when contracts are signed. The asset recognized from capitalized incremental and recoverable acquisition costs is amortized on a straight-line basis consistent with the timing of transfer of the products or services to which the asset relates.
On March 31, 2018, the first day of our fiscal 2019, we adopted the new guidance on a modified retrospective basis, applying the practical expedient to all uncompleted contracts as of March 31, 2018, and as a result, results for reporting periods beginning in the first quarter of our fiscal 2019 are presented under the new revenue recognition guidance, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported under the prior revenue recognition guidance. 
During the three and six months ended September 28, 2018, as a result of the adoption of the new revenue recognition guidance, our net revenue increased $4 million and $9 million, respectively, and operating expenses decreased $2 million and $11 million, respectively.
The adoption of the new revenue recognition guidance had no impact on our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.
Financial Instruments - Recognition and Measurement. In January 2016, the FASB issued new authoritative guidance on financial instruments. The new guidance enhances the reporting model for financial instruments, which includes amendments to address aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure. We adopted this new guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. Substantially all of our equity investments that were not accounted for under the equity method were previously accounted for under the cost method and are now accounted for using the measurement alternative defined as cost, less impairments, adjusted for observable price changes. Based on the composition of our investment portfolio, the adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Income Taxes - Intra-Entity Asset Transfers Other Than Inventory. In October 2016, the FASB issued new authoritative guidance that requires entities to immediately recognize the tax consequences of intercompany asset transfers, excluding inventory, at the transaction date, rather than deferring the tax consequences under legacy GAAP. We adopted this new guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 using a modified retrospective transition method. The adoption resulted in a cumulative-effect adjustment of a $742 million increase to retained earnings. This cumulative-effect adjustment primarily consisted of additional deferred tax assets related to an intra-entity sale of intangible assets in periods prior to adoption, partially offset by the write-off of income tax consequences deferred from pre-adoption intra-entity transfers and other liabilities for amounts not recognized under legacy GAAP.
Opening Balance Sheet Adjustments
Leases. In February 2016, the FASB issued new guidance on lease accounting which will require lessees to recognize assets and liabilities on their balance sheet for the rights and obligations created by operating leases and will also require disclosures designed to give users of financial statements information on the amount, timing, and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases. The new guidance will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2020. Early adoption is permitted but we do not plan to adopt the provisions of the new guidance early. We are currently in the assessment phase to determine the adoption methodology and are evaluating the impact of this new standard on our Consolidated Financial Statements and disclosures. We expect that most of our operating lease commitments will be subject to the new standard and recognized as lease liabilities and right-of-use assets upon adoption, which will increase the total assets and total liabilities we report. We are evaluating the impact to our Consolidated Financial Statements as it relates to other aspects of the business.
Credit Losses. In June 2016, the FASB issued new authoritative guidance on credit losses which changes the impairment model for most financial assets and certain other instruments. For trade receivables and other instruments, we will be required to use a new forward-looking “expected loss” model. Additionally, for available-for-sale debt securities with unrealized losses, we will measure credit losses in a manner similar to today, except that the losses will be recognized as allowances rather than reductions in the amortized cost of the securities. The standard will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2021. We are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of this guidance on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Internal-Use Software. In August 2018, the FASB issued new guidance that clarifies the accounting for implementation costs in a cloud computing arrangement. The new guidance aligns the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software. The standard will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2021, with early adoption permitted. We are currently evaluating the adoption date and the impact of the adoption of this guidance on our Consolidated Financial Statements and disclosures. 
General
We recognize revenue when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to our customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for the goods or services. Revenue is recognized net of allowances for returns, discounts, distributor incentives and end-user rebates, and any taxes collected from customers and subsequently remitted to governmental authorities.
For arrangements with multiple performance obligations, which may include hardware, software licenses, cloud services, support and maintenance, and professional services, we allocate revenue to each performance obligation on a relative fair value basis based on management’s estimate of stand-alone selling price (“SSP”). Judgment is required to determine the SSP for each performance obligation. The determination of SSP is made by taking into consideration observable prices in historical transactions. When observable prices in historical transactions are not available or are inconsistent, we estimate SSP based on observable prices in historical transactions of similar products, pricing discount practices, product margins, and other factors that may vary over time depending upon the unique facts and circumstances related to each performance obligation.
Revenue for our Enterprise Security products is earned from arrangements that can include various combinations of software licenses, cloud services, hardware, support and maintenance, and professional services, which are sold directly to end-users or through a multi-tiered distribution channel. 
We generally do not offer rights of return for Enterprise Security products and the distribution channel does not hold inventory. As a result, historical returns and related reserves have been insignificant. We offer channel rebates and marketing programs for our Enterprise Security products. Our estimated reserves for channel volume incentive rebates are based on distributors’ and resellers’ performance compared to the terms and conditions of volume incentive rebate programs, which are typically entered into quarterly. We had reserves for Enterprise Security rebates and marketing programs of $6 million recorded in Other current liabilities as of September 28, 2018, and $6 million recorded against Accounts receivable, net as of March 30, 2018.
Consumer Digital Safety
We sell consumer products and services directly to end-users and consumer packaged software products through a multi-tiered distribution channel. 
We offer various channel and end-user rebates for our Consumer Digital Safety products. Our estimated reserves for channel volume incentive rebates are based on distributors’ and resellers’ performance compared to the terms and conditions of volume incentive rebate programs, which are typically entered into quarterly. Our reserves for end-user rebates are estimated based on the terms and conditions of the promotional program, actual sales during the promotion, the amount of redemptions received, historical redemption trends by product and by type of promotional program, and the value of the rebate. We record estimated reserves for channel and end-user rebates as an offset to revenue or contract liabilities. We had reserves for Consumer Digital Safety rebates of $10 million recorded in Other current liabilities as of September 28, 2018 and $21 million recorded against Accounts receivable, net as of March 30, 2018. For consumer products that include content updates, rebates are recognized as a ratable offset to revenue or contract liabilities over the term of the subscription.
Performance obligations
At contract inception, we assess the products and services promised in the contract to identify each performance obligation and evaluate whether the performance obligations are capable of being distinct and are distinct within the context of the contract. Performance obligations that are not both capable of being distinct and distinct within the context of the contract are combined and treated as a single performance obligation in determining the allocation and recognition of revenue. Determining whether products and services are considered distinct performance obligations that should be accounted for separately versus together may require significant judgment. In determining whether products and services are considered distinct performance obligations, we assess whether the customer can benefit from the products and services on their own or together with other readily available resources, and whether our promise to transfer the product or service to the customer is separately identifiable from other promises in the contract. 
Performance Obligation When Performance Obligations is Typically Satisfied
License with distinct deliverables When software activation keys have been made available for download
Hardware with distinct deliverables When control of the product passes to the customer; typically upon shipment
License with interrelated deliverables Over the expected performance term, beginning on the date that software activation keys are made available to the customer
Cloud hosted solutions Over the contract term, beginning on the date that service is made available to the customer
Timing of revenue recognition
As a result of the adoption of the new revenue recognition guidance, the timing of recognition of certain of our performance obligations has changed. For example, certain term-based licenses with distinct performance obligations have a portion of revenue recognized up front when the software activation keys have been made available for download, whereas these arrangements were previously recognized over time. In addition, allocating the transaction price for perpetual software licenses and support on a relative standalone selling price basis under the new guidance has generally resulted in more revenue allocated to the upfront license compared to the residual method of allocation under the previous guidance. Conversely, certain of our perpetual licenses are not distinct from their accompanying support and maintenance under the new guidance and are now recognized over time.
Contract liabilities
Contract liabilities consist of deferred revenue and customer deposit liabilities and represent cash payments received or due in advance of our performance obligations. Deferred revenue represents billings under non-cancelable contracts before the related product or service is transferred to the customer. Certain arrangements in our Consumer Digital Safety segment include terms that allow the end user to terminate the contract and receive a pro-rata refund for a period of time. In these arrangements, we have concluded there are no enforceable rights and obligations during the period in which the option to cancel is exercisable by the customer and therefore the consideration received or due from the customer is recorded as a customer deposit liability. 
During the three and six months ended September 28, 2018, we recognized $841 million and $1,492 million, respectively, of revenue from our beginning contract liabilities balance.
Contract acquisition costs
Sales commissions that are incremental to obtaining a customer contract for which revenue is deferred are accrued and capitalized, and subsequently amortized to sales and marketing expense on a straight-line basis over three years, the expected period of benefit. In arriving at the average period of benefit, we evaluate both qualitative and quantitative factors which include historical customer renewal rates, anticipated renewal periods, and the estimated useful life of the underlying product sold as part of the transaction. Commissions paid on renewals of support and maintenance are not commensurate with the initial commissions paid, and therefore the amortization period of commissions for initial contracts considers the estimated term of specific anticipated renewal contracts over the life of the customer.
During the three and six months ended September 28, 2018, we recognized $24 million and $47 million, respectively, of amortization expense of capitalized contract acquisition costs. There were no impairment losses recognized during the periods.
Remaining performance obligations
During the six months ended September 28, 2018, we completed acquisitions of companies for an aggregate purchase price of $17 million, net of $2 million cash acquired.
In July 2017, we completed our acquisitions of Israel-based Fireglass Ltd. and Skycure Ltd. The total aggregate consideration for these acquisitions, primarily consisting of cash, was $345 million, net of $15 million cash acquired. In addition, 
during the six months ended September 29, 2017, we completed acquisitions of other companies for an aggregate purchase price of $29 million, net of cash acquired.
Note 6. Supplementary Information (in millions)
In October 2018, we completed the sale of certain land and buildings that were reported as assets held for sale as of September 28, 2018 and March 30, 2018 for a sales price of $26 million, net of selling costs, which was equal to their carrying value.
Note 7. Financial Instruments and Fair Value Measurements
For financial instruments measured at fair value, fair value is the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. When determining fair value, we consider the principal or most advantageous market in which we would transact, and we consider assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability.
Assets measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis
Actual maturities may differ from the contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to call or prepay certain obligations.
Financial instruments not recorded at fair value on a recurring basis include our non-marketable equity investments, equity method investment and our long-term debt.
Non-marketable equity investments
Our non-marketable equity investments are investments in privately-held companies without a readily determinable fair value. Prior to March 31, 2018, we accounted for substantially all of these investments at cost less impairment and recognized realized gains or losses from sale or impairment in Other expense, net in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. 
Effective March 31, 2018, we adopted the new accounting guidance related to the recognition and measurement of financial instruments. As a result, starting the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we measure these investments at cost minus impairment, if any, plus or minus changes resulting from observable price changes in orderly transactions for identical or similar investments of the same issuer. Gains and losses on these investments, whether realized or unrealized, are recognized in Other expense, net in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. As of September 28, 2018 and March 30, 2018, the carrying value of our non-marketable equity investments was $175 million. 
Equity method investment
Our investment in equity securities that is accounted for using the equity method is included in Long-term other assets in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and consists of our equity investment in a privately-held company that had a carrying value of $74 million and $134 million at September 28, 2018 and March 30, 2018, respectively. 
We recorded a loss from equity interests of $34 million and $60 million during the three and six months ended September 28, 2018, respectively, in Other expense, net in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. This loss for the six months ended September 28, 2018 was reflected as a reduction in the carrying amount of our investment in equity interests in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
As of September 28, 2018 and March 30, 2018, the total fair value of our current and long-term fixed rate debt was $3.9 billion. The fair value of our variable rate debt approximated its carrying value. The fair values of all our debt obligations were based on Level 2 inputs.
Based on the closing price of our common stock of $21.28 on September 28, 2018, the if-converted values of our 2.5% and 2.0% Convertible Senior Notes exceeded the principal amount by approximately $134 million and $53 million, respectively.
We have an unsecured revolving credit facility to borrow up to $1.0 billion through May 10, 2021. For our current credit rating, borrowings under the revolving credit facility are subject to the same interest rate as our Senior Term Loan A-2. We are obligated 
to pay commitment fees on the unused commitment at a rate based on our debt ratings. As of September 28, 2018 and March 30, 2018, there were no borrowings outstanding under this revolving credit facility.
The Senior Term Loan agreements A-2, A-5 and our revolving credit facility contain customary representations and warranties, affirmative and negative covenants, including compliance with specified financial ratios, non-financial covenants for financial reporting, and restrictions on subsidiary indebtedness, liens, stock repurchases and dividends (with exceptions permitting our regular quarterly dividend). Our Convertible Senior Notes agreements and the agreement for our 5.0% Senior Note due April 15, 2025 also require us to file periodic reports with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) by specified deadlines.
As of September 28, 2018, we had not met the requirements in the Senior Term Loan agreements A-2, A-5, the revolving credit facility agreement, the Convertible Senior Notes agreements and the agreement for our 5.0% Senior Note due April 15, 2025 to deliver audited financial statements for our fiscal year ended March 30, 2018 and file our Annual Report on Form 10-K for such period with the SEC. In addition, we subsequently did not meet the requirements under the Convertible Senior Notes agreements and the agreement for our 5.0% Senior Note due April 15, 2025 to file our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for our fiscal quarter ended June 29, 2018 with the SEC by the specified deadline. 
On June 22, 2018, we reached an agreement with lenders to waive the financial reporting requirements under the Senior Term Loan agreements A-2, A-5 and the revolving credit facility agreement through October 27, 2018. On October 26, 2018 we satisfied these requirements for our fiscal year ended March 30, 2018 by filing our Form 10-K for such period with the SEC.
The filing of our Form 10-K on October 26, 2018 and the simultaneous filing herewith of the Form 10-Q for the first quarter ended June 29, 2018 also satisfied our SEC reporting requirements for our year ended March 30, 2018 and our quarter ended June 29, 2018, respectively, under the Convertible Senior Notes agreements and the agreement for our 5.0% Senior Note due April 15, 2025.
 Because we expected as of September 28, 2018 that we would comply with all of our debt covenants before any applicable grace periods as defined in the associated indentures for the 5% Notes and the Convertible Senior Notes passed and waivers expired, we have classified all of the associated outstanding debt as long-term debt in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets except for the portion that is due in the twelve months following September 28, 2018.
The fair value of our foreign exchange forward contracts is presented on a gross basis in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. As of September 28, 2018 and March 30, 2018, the fair value was insignificant. To mitigate losses in the event of nonperformance by counterparties, we have entered into master netting arrangements with our counterparties that allow us to settle payments on a net basis. The effect of netting on our derivative assets and liabilities was not material as of September 28, 2018 and March 30, 2018. 
Note 10. Restructuring, Transition and Other Costs
In August 2018, we announced a restructuring plan (the “Fiscal 2019 Plan”) under which we will initiate targeted reductions of up to approximately 8% of our global workforce. We estimate that we will incur total costs in connection with the Fiscal 2019 Plan of approximately $50 million, primarily for severance and termination benefits. These actions are expected to be completed in fiscal 2019. As of September 28, 2018, no significant costs have been incurred related to our Fiscal 2019 Plan.
We initiated a restructuring plan in the first quarter of fiscal 2017 to reduce complexity by means of long-term structural improvements (the “Fiscal 2017 Plan”), under which we reduced headcount and closed certain facilities. These actions were substantially completed at the end of our first quarter of fiscal 2019. As of September 28, 2018, liabilities for excess facility obligations at several locations around the world are expected to be paid throughout the respective lease terms, the longest of which extends through fiscal 2025.
Restructuring summary
The restructuring liabilities are included in Other current liabilities and Other long-term liabilities in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Note 11. Income Taxes
For each of the three and six months ended September 28, 2018, we recorded an income tax expense on discontinued operations of $4 million. For the three and six months ended September 29, 2017, we recorded an income tax benefit on discontinued operations of $4 million and an income tax expense on discontinued operations of $37 million, respectively.
Note 12. Stockholders' Equity
Dividends
On November 1, 2018, we announced a cash dividend of $0.075 per share of common stock to be paid in December 2018. All shares of common stock issued and outstanding and all restricted stock units (“RSUs”) and performance-based restricted stock units (“PRUs”) as of the record date will be entitled to the dividend and dividend equivalents, respectively. Any future dividends and dividend equivalents will be subject to the approval of our Board of Directors.
Stock Repurchase Program
Under our current stock repurchase program, we may purchase shares of our outstanding common stock through open market and accelerated stock repurchase transactions. As of September 28, 2018, the remaining balance of our stock repurchase authorization was $800 million and does not have an expiration date.
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
Stock-based compensation expense
As of September 28, 2018, 12 million PRUs that vested on March 30, 2018 remained unreleased.
Liability-classified awards settled in shares
For certain employees, we settled fiscal 2018 bonuses in approximately 1 million RSUs. These awards were granted and vested in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. Certain fiscal 2019 bonuses are expected to be settled in RSUs in the first quarter of fiscal 2020. As of September 28, 2018 and March 30, 2018, the total liability associated with liability-classified awards was $14 million and $25 million, respectively, which is presented in Accrued compensation and benefits in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Employee stock purchase plan
In August 2018, we cancelled the issuance of common stock under our 2008 Employee Stock Purchase Plan for the 6-month purchase period ended August 15, 2018, as a result of the delayed filing of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 30, 2018. All participant contributions were refunded. In addition, the enrollment in the purchase period beginning August 16, 2018 was delayed.
Note 14. Net Income Per Share
Basic income per share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted net income per share also includes the incremental effect of dilutive potentially issuable common shares outstanding during the period using the treasury stock method. Dilutive potentially issuable common shares includes the dilutive effect of the shares underlying convertible debt and employee equity awards. Diluted loss per share was the same as basic loss per share for each of the three and six months ended September 28, 2018 and September 29, 2017, as there was a loss from continuing operations in the periods and inclusion of potentially issuable shares was anti-dilutive.
Under the treasury stock method, our Convertible Senior Notes will generally have a dilutive impact on net income per share when our average stock price for the period exceeds approximately $16.77 per share for the 2.5% Convertible Senior Notes and $20.41 per share for the 2.0% Convertible Senior Notes. The conversion feature of both notes was anti-dilutive during the three and six months ended September 28, 2018 and September 29, 2017 as there was a loss from continuing operations in the periods.
•Enterprise Security. Our Enterprise Security segment focuses on providing solutions to protect organizations so they can securely conduct business while leveraging new platforms and data. Our Enterprise Security portfolio includes products, services and solutions that are delivered as part of an Integrated Cyber Defense Platform.
•Consumer Digital Safety. Our Consumer Digital Safety segment focuses on providing a comprehensive Digital Safety solution to protect information, devices, networks and the identities of consumers. This solution includes our Norton-branded security solutions and LifeLock identity theft protection solutions.
Operating segments are based upon the nature of our business and how our business is managed. Our Chief Operating Decision Makers (“CODM”), consisting of our Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”), use our operating segment financial information to evaluate segment performance and to allocate resources.
Endpoint and information protection products include endpoint security, advanced threat protection, and information protection solutions and their related support services. Network and web security products include network security, web 
security, and cloud security solutions and their related support services. Website security and public key infrastructure products consist of the solutions we divested on October 31, 2017. Other products and services primarily consist of email security products, managed security services, consulting and other professional services.
Consumer security products include Norton security, Norton Secure VPN, and other consumer security solutions. Identity and information protection products include LifeLock identity theft protection and other information protection solutions.
The Americas include U.S., Canada and Latin America; EMEA includes Europe, Middle East and Africa; APJ includes Asia Pacific and Japan.
Revenues from customers inside the U.S. were $714 million and $1,402 million during the three and six months ended September 28, 2018, respectively, and $713 million and $1,392 million during the three and six months ended September 29, 2017, respectively. No other individual country accounted for more than 10% of revenues. 
Most of our assets, excluding cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments, as of September 28, 2018 and September 29, 2017, were attributable to our U.S. operations. The table below represents cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments held in the U.S. and internationally in various foreign subsidiaries.
The table below represents our property and equipment, net of accumulated depreciation and amortization, by geographic area, based on the physical location of the asset, at the end of each period presented.
Significant customers
As of September 28, 2018, we had purchase obligations of $1,047 million associated with agreements for purchases of goods or services. Management believes that cancellation of these contracts is unlikely, and we expect to make future cash payments according to the contract terms.
Deemed repatriation taxes
As of September 28, 2018, we are required to pay a one-time transition tax of $920 million on untaxed foreign earnings of our foreign subsidiaries due in annual installments through July 2025 as a result of the Act. 
In the ordinary course of business, we may provide indemnifications of varying scope and terms to customers, vendors, lessors, business partners, subsidiaries and other parties with respect to certain matters, including, but not limited to, losses arising out of our breach of agreements or representations and warranties made by us. In addition, our bylaws contain indemnification obligations to our directors, officers, employees and agents, and we have entered into indemnification agreements with our directors and certain of our officers to give such directors and officers additional contractual assurances regarding the scope of the indemnification set forth in our bylaws and to provide additional procedural protections. We maintain director and officer insurance, which may cover certain liabilities arising from our obligation to indemnify our directors and officers. It is not possible to determine the aggregate maximum potential loss under these indemnification agreements due to the limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Such indemnification agreements might not be subject to maximum loss clauses. Historically, we have not incurred material costs as a result of obligations under these agreements and we have not accrued any liabilities related to such indemnification obligations.
In connection with the sale of Veritas, we assigned several leases to Veritas Technologies LLC or its related subsidiaries. As a condition to consenting to the assignments, certain lessors required us to agree to indemnify the lessor under the applicable 
lease with respect to certain matters, including, but not limited to, losses arising out of Veritas Technologies LLC or its related subsidiaries’ breach of payment obligations under the terms of the lease. As with our other indemnification obligations discussed above and in general, it is not possible to determine the aggregate maximum potential loss under these indemnification agreements due to the limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. As with our other indemnification obligations, such indemnification agreements might not be subject to maximum loss clauses and to date, generally under our real estate obligations, we have not incurred material costs as a result of such obligations under our leases and have not accrued any liabilities related to such indemnification obligations.
Litigation contingencies 
Audit Committee Investigation
During the first quarter of fiscal 2013, we were advised by the Commercial Litigation Branch of the Department of Justice’s (“DOJ”) Civil Division and the Civil Division of the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Columbia that the government is investigating our compliance with certain provisions of our U.S. General Services Administration (“GSA”) Multiple Award Schedule Contract No. GS-35F-0240T effective January 24, 2007, including provisions relating to pricing, country of origin, accessibility, and the disclosure of commercial sales practices.
As reported on the GSA’s publicly-available database, our total sales under the GSA Schedule contract were approximately $222 million from the period beginning January 2007 and ending September 2012. We have fully cooperated with the government throughout its investigation and in January 2014, representatives of the government indicated that their initial analysis of our actual damages exposure from direct government sales under the GSA schedule was approximately $145 million; since the initial meeting, the government’s analysis of our potential damages exposure relating to direct sales has increased. The government has also indicated they are going to pursue claims for certain sales to California, Florida, and New York as well as sales to the federal government through reseller GSA Schedule contracts, which could significantly increase our potential damages exposure.
In 2012, a sealed civil lawsuit was filed against Symantec related to compliance with the GSA Schedule contract and contracts with California, Florida, and New York. On July 18, 2014, the Court-imposed seal expired, and the government intervened in the lawsuit. On September 16, 2014, the states of California and Florida intervened in the lawsuit, and the state of New York notified the Court that it would not intervene. On October 3, 2014, the DOJ filed an amended complaint, which did not state a specific damages amount. On October 17, 2014, California and Florida combined their claims with those of the DOJ and the relator on behalf of New York in an Omnibus Complaint, and a First Amended Omnibus Complaint was filed on October 8, 2015; the state claims also do not state specific damages amounts.
We are involved in a number of other judicial and administrative proceedings that are incidental to our business. Although adverse decisions (or settlements) may occur in one or more of the cases, it is not possible to estimate the possible loss or losses from each of these cases. The final resolution of these lawsuits, individually or in the aggregate, is not expected to have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.
Information with respect to this Item may be found under the heading “Litigation contingencies” in Note 16 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-Q, which information is incorporated into this Item 1 by reference.
Item 1A. Risk Factors
•Fluctuations in our revenue due to the transition of our sales contracts to a higher mix of products subject to ratable versus point-in-time revenue recognition;
•The timing of satisfying revenue recognition criteria, particularly with regard to our enterprise sales transactions, as a result of our adoption of new revenue recognition from contracts with customers accounting standard under ASC 606 on March 31, 2018;
•Fluctuations in demand for our solutions;
•Competitive pricing pressure for one or more of our classes of our solutions;
•Our ability to timely complete the release of new or enhanced versions of our solutions;
•The impact of acquisitions and our ability to achieve expected synergies;
•Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates;
•The number, severity, and timing of threat outbreaks (e.g. worms, viruses, malware, ransomware and other malicious threats) and cyber security incidents (e.g., large scale data breaches);
•Customers’ tendency to negotiate licenses and other agreements near the end of each quarter;
•Cancellation, deferral, or limitation of orders by customers;
•Changes in the mix or type of products and subscriptions sold;
•Our ability to achieve targeted operating income and margins;
•Movements in interest rates;
•The rate of adoption of new technologies and new releases of operating systems;
•Changes in tax laws, rules, and regulations;
•The timing of and rate and discounts at which customers replace older versions of our hardware products that reach end of life; and
•Disruptions in our business operations or target markets caused by, among other things, terrorism or other intentional acts, outbreaks of disease, or earthquakes, floods, or other natural disasters.
Our business depends on customers renewing their arrangements for maintenance, subscriptions, managed security services and cloud-based (“cloud”) offerings.
Matters relating to or arising from our Audit Committee Investigation, including regulatory investigations and proceedings, litigation matters and potential additional expenses, may adversely affect our business and results of operations.
As previously disclosed in our public filings, the Audit Committee has recently completed its internal investigation. In connection with the Audit Committee Investigation, we voluntarily contacted the SEC in May 2018. The SEC commenced a formal investigation and we continue to cooperate with that investigation.
Furthermore, if the SEC commences legal action, we could be required to pay significant penalties and become subject to injunctions, a cease and desist order and other equitable remedies. The completion of the Audit Committee Investigation and filing of delinquent periodic reports will not automatically resolve the SEC investigation. We can provide no assurances as to the outcome of any governmental investigation.
As a result of the matters reported above, we are exposed to greater risks associated with litigation, regulatory proceedings and government enforcement actions. In addition, securities class actions and other lawsuits have been filed against us, our directors and officers (see also, “We are subject to pending securities class action and stockholder derivative legal proceedings” below). Any future investigations or additional lawsuits may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
We are subject to pending securities class action and stockholder derivative legal proceedings that may adversely affect our business.
The delayed filing of some of our periodic SEC reports has made us currently ineligible to use a registration statement on Form S-3 to register the offer and sale of securities, which could adversely affect our ability to raise future capital or complete acquisitions.
As a result of the delayed filing of some of our periodic reports with the SEC, we will not be eligible to register the offer and sale of our securities using a registration statement on Form S-3 until November 2019, at the earliest. Should we wish to register the offer and sale of our securities to the public prior to the time we are eligible to use Form S-3, both our transaction costs and the amount of time required to complete the transaction could increase, making it more difficult to execute any such transaction successfully and potentially harming our financial condition.
Our future success depends on our ability to effectively respond to the rapidly changing needs of our customers, as well as competitive technological developments and industry changes by developing or introducing new and enhanced solutions on a timely basis.
•Evolving industry standards and technological developments by our competitors and customers;
•Evolving platforms, operating systems and hardware products, such as mobile devices, and related product and service interoperability challenges;
•Entering into new or unproven markets;
•Executing new product and service strategies;
•Developing or expanding efficient sales channels; and
•Obtaining sufficient licenses to technology and technical access to operating system software.
Effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. Failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. From time to time, key personnel leave our company. Although we strive to reduce the negative impact of changes in our leadership, the loss of any key employee could result in significant disruptions to our operations, including adversely affecting the timeliness of product releases, the successful implementation and completion of company initiatives, the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures, our internal control over financial reporting, and our results of operations. In addition, hiring, training, and successfully integrating replacement sales and other personnel could be time consuming and expensive, may cause additional disruptions to our operations, and may be unsuccessful, which could negatively impact future financial results. These risks may be exacerbated by the uncertainty associated with the acquisitions, divestitures and transitions we have experienced over the last few years.
Our competitors include software and cloud-based vendors that offer solutions that directly compete with our offerings. In addition to competing with these vendors directly for sales to end-users of our solutions, we compete with them for the opportunity to have our solutions bundled with the offerings of our strategic partners such as computer hardware original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) and internet service providers (“ISPs”). Our competitors could gain market share from us if any of these strategic partners replace our solutions with those of our competitors or if these partners more actively promote our competitors’ solutions than our own. In addition, software and cloud-based vendors who have bundled our solutions with theirs may choose to bundle their solutions with their own or other vendors’ solutions or may limit our access to standard interfaces and inhibit our ability to develop solutions for their platform. In the future, further product development by these vendors could cause our solutions to become redundant, which could significantly impact our sales and financial results.
We face growing competition from network equipment, computer hardware manufacturers, large operating system providers and other technology companies, as well as from companies in the identity threat protection space such as credit bureaus. Many of these competitors are increasingly developing and incorporating into their products data protection software that competes at some levels with our offerings. Our competitive position could be adversely affected to the extent that our customers perceive the functionality incorporated into these products as replacing the need for our solutions.
Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, sales, marketing or other resources than we do and consequently, may have the ability to influence customers to purchase their products instead of ours. Further consolidation within our industry or other changes in the competitive environment could result in larger competitors that compete with us on several levels. We also face competition from many smaller companies that specialize in particular segments of the markets in which we compete.
Our cloud offerings present execution and competitive risks.
•Continuing to innovate and bring to market compelling cloud-based solutions that generate increasing traffic and market share; and
•Ensuring that our cloud offerings meet the reliability expectations of our customers and maintain the security of their data.
While we continue to focus on managing our costs and expenses, over the long term, we also intend to invest significantly in research and development activities as we focus on organic growth through internal innovation in each of our business segments. We believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position, and that the level of these investments will increase in future periods. We recognize the costs associated with these research and development investments earlier than the anticipated benefits, and the return on these investments may be lower, or may develop more slowly, than we expect. If we do not achieve the benefits anticipated from these investments, or if the achievement of these benefits is delayed, our operating results may be adversely affected.
Further, our estimates relating to the liabilities for excess facilities are affected by changes in real estate market conditions. Additionally, we are required to evaluate goodwill impairment on an annual basis and between annual evaluations in certain circumstances, and future goodwill impairment evaluations may result in a charge to earnings.
We may need to change our pricing models to compete successfully.
We currently serve our cloud-based customers from hosting facilities, including third-party hosting facilities, located across the globe. Damage to, or failure of, any significant element of these hosting facilities could result in interruptions in our service, which could harm our customers and expose us to liability. The occurrence of a natural disaster or an act of terrorism, a decision to close the facilities without adequate notice or other unanticipated problems could result in lengthy interruptions in the delivery of our solutions. Interruptions or failures in our service delivery could cause customers to terminate their subscriptions with us, could adversely affect our renewal rates, and could harm our ability to attract new customers. Our business would also be harmed if our customers believe that our cloud offerings are unreliable.
Our solutions are complex and operate in a wide variety of environments, systems, applications and configurations, which could result in failures of our solutions to function as designed.
Because we offer very complex solutions, undetected errors, failures or bugs may occur, especially when solutions are first introduced or when new versions are released. Our products are often installed and used in large-scale computing environments with different operating systems, system management software, and equipment and networking configurations, which may cause errors or failures in our solutions or may expose undetected errors, failures, or bugs in our solutions. Our customers’ computing environments are often characterized by a wide variety of standard and non-standard configurations that make pre-release testing for programming or compatibility errors very difficult and time-consuming. In addition, despite testing by us and others, errors, failures, or bugs may not be found in new solutions or releases until after they are delivered to customers. In the past, we have discovered software errors, failures, and bugs in certain of our solutions after their introduction and, in some cases, have experienced delayed or lost revenues as a result of these errors.
Despite our precautions and significant ongoing investments to protect against security risks, data protection breaches, cyber-attacks and other intentional disruptions of our solutions, we expect to be an ongoing target of attacks specifically designed to impede the performance and availability of our offerings and harm our reputation as a company. Similarly, experienced computer programmers or other sophisticated individuals or entities may attempt to penetrate our network security or the security of our systems and website and misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions of our services, including the operation of our global civilian cyber intelligence threat network. While we invest and devote significant resources to maintain and continually enhance and update our methods to detect and alert us to such breaches, attacks and disruptions, these efforts may not be sufficient, even with rapid detection, to prevent the damage such a breach of our products, solutions, cloud offerings, systems, and website may cause.
We are heavily reliant on our technology and infrastructure to provide our products and services to our customers. For example, we host many of our products using third-party data center facilities and we do not control the operation of these facilities. These facilities are vulnerable to damage, interruption or performance problems from earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events. They are also subject to break-ins, computer viruses, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and other misconduct. The occurrence of a natural disaster or an act of terrorism, a decision to close the facilities without adequate notice or other unanticipated problems could result in lengthy interruptions in the delivery of our products and services.
We collect, use, disclose, store or otherwise process personal information, which subjects us to privacy and data security laws and contractual commitments, and our actual or perceived failure to comply with such laws and commitments could harm our business.
We collect, use, store or disclose (collectively, “process”) an increasingly large amount of personal information, including from employees and customers, in connection with the operation of our business, particularly in relation to our identity and information protection offerings. We process an increasingly high volume, variety and velocity of personal information as a result of our identity and information protection offerings that rely on large data repositories of personal information and consumer transactions. The personal information we process is subject to an increasing number of federal, state, local and foreign laws regarding privacy and data security, as well as contractual commitments. Any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with such obligations may result in governmental enforcement actions, fines, litigation, or public statements against us by consumer advocacy groups or others and could cause our customers to lose trust in us, which could have an adverse effect on our reputation and business. Additionally, changes to applicable privacy or data security laws could impact how we process personal information, and therefore limit the effectiveness of our solutions or our ability to develop new solutions. For example, the European Union General Data Protection Regulation, which becomes fully effective on May 25, 2018, imposes more stringent data protection requirements, and provides for greater penalties for noncompliance of up to the greater of €20 million or four percent of worldwide annual revenues. Our customers may also accidentally disclose their passwords or store them on a device that is lost or stolen, creating the perception that our systems are not secure against third-party access.
•Complexity, time and costs associated with managing these transactions, including the integration of acquired business operations, workforce, products, IT systems and technologies;
•Loss or termination of employees, including costs associated with the termination or replacement of those employees;
•Assumption of liabilities of the acquired business or assets, including litigation related to the acquired business or assets;
•The addition of acquisition-related debt;
•Increased or unexpected costs and working capital requirements;
•Dilution of stock ownership of existing stockholders;
•Unanticipated delays or failure to meet contractual obligations; and
•Substantial accounting charges for acquisition-related costs, amortization of intangible assets, and higher levels of stock-based compensation expense.
We have invested and continue to invest and devote significant resources in the integration of businesses we acquire, including our August 2016 acquisition of Blue Coat, Inc. (“Blue Coat”) and February 2017 acquisition of LifeLock, Inc. (“Life Lock”). The success of each acquisition depends in part on our ability to realize the anticipated business opportunities, including certain cost savings and operational efficiencies or synergies and growth prospects from integrating these businesses in an efficient and effective manner. If integration of our acquired businesses is not successful, we may not realize the potential benefits of an acquisition or suffer other adverse effects. To integrate acquired businesses, we must integrate and manage the personnel and business systems of the acquired operations. We also must effectively integrate the different cultures of acquired business organizations into our own in a way that aligns various interests, and may need to enter new markets in which we have no or limited experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions. Moreover, to be successful, large complex acquisitions depend on large-scale product, technology and sales force integrations that are difficult to complete on a timely basis or at all, and may be more susceptible to the special risks and challenges described above.
We sell our solutions to customers around the world through multi-tiered sales and distribution networks.
•Longer sales cycles associated with direct sales efforts;
•Difficulty in hiring, retaining, and motivating our direct sales force, particularly through periods of transition in our organization;
•Substantial amounts of training for sales representatives to become productive in selling our solutions, including regular updates to our products, and associated delays and difficulties in recognizing the expected benefits of investments in new products and updates;
•Increased administrative costs in processing orders and increased credit risk in pursuing payment from each end user; and
•Increased responsibility for custom and export activities that may result in added costs.
•Our resellers and distributors are generally not subject to minimum sales requirements or any obligation to market our solutions to their customers;
•Our reseller and distributor agreements are generally nonexclusive and may be terminated at any time without cause;
•Our lack of control over the timing of delivery of our solutions to end-users;
•Our resellers and distributors may violate applicable law or regulatory requirements or otherwise cause damage to our reputation through their actions;
•Our resellers and distributors frequently market and distribute competing solutions and may, from time to time, place greater emphasis on the sale of these solutions due to pricing, promotions, and other terms offered by our competitors; and
•Any consolidation of electronics retailers can continue to increase their negotiating power with respect to hardware and software providers such as us.
•Our lack of control over the volume of products delivered and the timing of such delivery;
•Most of our OEM partners are not subject to minimum sales requirements. Generally our OEM partners do not have any obligation to market our products to their customers;
•Sales through our OEM partners are subject to changes in general economic conditions, strategic direction, competitive risks, and other issues that could result in a reduction of OEM sales;
•The time and expense required for the sales and marketing organizations of our OEM partners to become familiar with our solutions may make it more difficult to introduce those solutions to the market; and
•Our OEM partners may develop, market, and distribute their own solutions and market and distribute products of our competitors, which could reduce our sales.
We are subject to heightened regulation in our Consumer Digital Safety segment as a result of the sale of our identity and information protection products, which we began selling at the end of fiscal 2017 as a result of our acquisition of LifeLock, including a wide variety of federal, state, and local laws and regulations, including the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, the Federal Trade Commission Act (“FTC Act”), and comparable state laws that are patterned after the FTC Act. Moreover, LifeLock entered into consent decrees and similar arrangements with the Federal Trade Commission (the “FTC”) and 35 states’ attorneys general in 2010, and a settlement with the FTC in 2015 relating to allegations that certain of LifeLock’s advertising and marketing practices constituted deceptive acts or practices in violation of the FTC Act, which impose additional restrictions on the LifeLock business, including prohibitions against making any misrepresentation of “the means, methods, procedures, effects, effectiveness, coverage, or scope of” LifeLock’s identity theft protection services. Any of the laws and regulations that apply to our business are subject to revision or new or changed interpretations, and we cannot predict the impact of such changes on our business.
Additionally, the nature of our identity and information protection products subjects us to the broad regulatory, supervisory, and enforcement powers of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) which may exercise authority with respect to our services, or the marketing and servicing of those services, by overseeing our financial institution or credit reporting agency customers and suppliers, or by otherwise exercising its supervisory, regulatory, or enforcement authority over consumer financial products and services.
•Requirements of foreign laws and other governmental controls, including tariffs, trade barriers and labor restrictions and related laws that reduce the flexibility of our business operations;
•Potential changes in trade relations arising from policy initiatives or other political factors;
•Regulations or restrictions on the use, import, or export of encryption technologies that could delay or prevent the acceptance and use of encryption products and public networks for secure communications;
•Local business and cultural factors that differ from our normal standards and practices, including business practices that we are prohibited from engaging in by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-corruption laws and regulations;
•Central bank and other restrictions on our ability to repatriate cash from our international subsidiaries or to exchange cash in international subsidiaries into cash available for use in the U.S.;
•Longer payment cycles for sales in foreign countries and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable;
•Difficulties in staffing, managing, and operating our international operations;
•Difficulties in coordinating the activities of our geographically dispersed and culturally diverse operations;
•Seasonal reductions in business activity in the summer months in Europe and in other periods in other countries;
•Costs and delays associated with developing software and providing support in multiple languages; and
•Political unrest, war, or terrorism, or regional natural disasters, particularly in areas in which we have facilities.
We are dependent on original design manufacturers, contract manufacturers and third-party logistics providers to design and manufacture our hardware-based products and to fulfill orders for our hardware-based products.
We depend primarily on original design manufacturers (each of which is a third-party original design manufacturer for numerous companies) to co-design and co-develop the hardware platforms for our products. We also depend on independent contract manufacturers (each of which is a third-party contract manufacturer for numerous companies) to manufacture and fulfill our hardware-based products. These supply chain partners are not committed to design or manufacture our products, or to fulfill orders for our products, on a long-term basis in any specific quantity or at any specific price. In addition, certain of our products or key components of our products are currently manufactured by a single third-party supplier. There are alternative suppliers that could provide components, as our agreements do not provide for exclusivity or minimum purchase quantities, but the transition and qualification from one supplier to another could be lengthy, costly and difficult. Also, from time to time, we may be required to add new supply chain partner relationships or new manufacturing or fulfillment sites to accommodate growth in orders or the addition of new products. It is time consuming and costly to qualify and implement new supply chain partner relationships and new manufacturing or fulfillment sites, and such additions increase the complexity of our supply chain management. Our ability to ship products to our customers could be delayed, and our business and results of operations could be adversely affected if we fail to effectively manage our supply chain partner relationships; if one or more of our original design manufacturers does not meet our development schedules; if one or more of our independent contract manufacturers experiences delays, disruptions or quality control problems in manufacturing our products; if one or more of our third-party logistics providers experiences delays or disruptions or otherwise fails to meet our fulfillment schedules; or if we are required to add or replace original design manufacturers, independent contract manufacturers, third-party logistics providers or fulfillment sites.
In addition, these supply chain partners have access to certain of our critical confidential information and could wrongly disclose or misuse such information or be subject to a breach or other compromise that introduces a vulnerability or other defect in the products manufactured by our supply chain partners. While we take precautions to ensure that hardware manufactured by our independent contractors is reviewed, any espionage acts, malware attacks, theft of confidential information or other malicious cyber incidents perpetrated either directly or indirectly through our independent contractors, may compromise our system infrastructure, expose us to litigation and associated expenses and lead to reputational harm that could result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. In addition, we are subject to risks resulting from the perception that certain jurisdictions, including China, do not comply with internationally recognized rights of freedom of expression and privacy and may permit labor practices that are deemed unacceptable under evolving standards of social responsibility. If manufacturing or logistics in these foreign countries is disrupted for any reason, including natural disasters, IT system failures, military or government actions or economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, or political issues, or if the purchase or sale of products from such foreign countries is prohibited or disfavored, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.
Changes to our effective tax rate could increase our income tax expense and reduce (increase) our net income (loss).
•Changes to other tax laws, regulations, and interpretations in multiple jurisdictions in which we operate, including actions resulting from the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development’s base erosion and profit shifting project, proposed actions by international bodies, as well as the requirements of certain tax rulings;
•The tax effects of purchase accounting for acquisitions and restructuring charges that may cause fluctuations between reporting periods; and
Failure to maintain our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity, capital position, ability to hedge certain financial risks, borrowing costs and access to capital markets.
•We must use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest and principal on the term loans and revolving credit facility and our existing senior notes and other indebtedness, which reduces funds available to us for other purposes such as working capital, capital expenditures, other general corporate purposes and potential acquisitions;
•We may be unable to refinance our indebtedness or to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes;
•We are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates because borrowings under our senior credit facilities bear interest at variable rates;
There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage any of these risks successfully.
In addition, we conduct a significant portion of our operations through our subsidiaries, which are generally not guarantors of our debt. Accordingly, repayment of our indebtedness will be dependent in part on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. In general, our subsidiaries will not have any obligation to pay amounts due on our debt or to make funds available for that purpose. Our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness. Each subsidiary is a distinct legal entity, and under certain circumstances legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. In the event that we do not receive distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to make the required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness.
Our existing credit agreements impose operating and financial restrictions on us.
•Incur additional debt;
•Create liens on certain assets to secure debt;
•Enter into certain sale and leaseback transactions;
•Pay dividends on or make other distributions in respect of our capital stock or make other restricted payments; and
•Consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets.
All of these covenants may adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, meet or otherwise address our capital needs, pursue business opportunities, react to market conditions or otherwise restrict activities or business plans. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default in respect of the related indebtedness. If a default occurs, the relevant lenders could elect to declare the indebtedness, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable and, to the extent such indebtedness is secured in the future, proceed against any collateral securing that indebtedness.
Certain of our products are distributed with software licensed by its authors or other third parties under so-called “open source” licenses, which may include, by way of example, the GNU General Public License, GNU Lesser General Public License, the Mozilla Public License, the BSD License, and the Apache License.
Some of these licenses contain requirements that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon the open source software, and that we license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of a particular open source license or other license granting third parties certain rights of further use. By the terms of certain open source licenses, we could be required to release the source code of our proprietary software if we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner. In addition to risks related to license requirements, usage of open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on origin of the software. We have established processes to help alleviate these risks, including a review process for screening requests from our development organizations for the use of open source, but we cannot be sure that all open source is submitted for approval prior to use in our products. In addition, many of the risks associated with usage of open source cannot be eliminated, and could, if not properly addressed, negatively affect our business.
